---

title: Document management user interface with user customized application functionalities
abstract: Apparatuses, systems and methods are provided for accessing a document management application through a network, wherein for each application user, application functionalities in the application user interface are customized for that application user by means of a registration user interface through which specific application functionalities can be selected and registered for the application user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768949&OS=08768949&RS=08768949
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08768949
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100311
---
This disclosure relates to systems apparatuses and methodologies for managing and exchanging documents and files.

In the current information age information technology IT tools for managing files and data are extensively used in enterprises and other organizations in order to store and transfer electronic documents and data over a network.

A document management system for example DocumentMall can provide users with remote access that is through a network to software applications and related services that would otherwise have to be installed on the user s local computer. For example such a document management system may be configured to store documents as electronic files in a network connected and secure document storage device in order to protect the documents from theft or loss and to avoid unnecessarily occupying storage space local to the user computer or local computing environment while making such files available on demand. The documents may include voluminous and or sensitive material and may be configured to provide searchable databases of all forms of legal medical financial educational scientific and marketing documents for individuals and or companies via a network.

Typically when a conventional document management system receives user input of a request to retrieve a specific document from document storage of the document management system the document management system transmits an instruction to the document storage based on the user input and receives data for the requested document from the document storage in response to the instruction. The document management system then transmits the data returned from the document storage part to the user. depicts an example of such a system where client terminals through may upload and download documents to from the document storage of the document management system via the network .

There is a drawback however in that a user interface of such a conventional document management system is often static and inflexible with the same set of rigid options presented to all users. This is despite the fact that certain groups of users may be interested in consistently accessing a specific set of services or application functionalities of the document management system.

There exists a need for an improved document management system which is not as difficult and time consuming to use.

This disclosure provides user interface tools in the form of systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for managing and accessing documents or files .

In an aspect of this disclosure a registration user interface is provided for registration of a specific user in a registration session and selection of specific ones of a plurality of application functionalities of a document management apparatus for the specific user and registration of the selected application functionalities in connection with the user registration user information including functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user is maintained for the specific user and the functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user are retrieved upon login by the specific user in a later operations session and a user interface showing the retrieved functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities for the specific user is provided in the later session.

In another aspect the registration user interface provides a view of the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities and requests confirmation that the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session.

In another aspect after the view of the operations user interface is displayed the registration user interface allows the user to unselect one or more of the selected application functionalities and the registration user interface provides an updated view of the operations user interface without the unselected application functionality.

In another aspect at least one of the selected application functionalities include one or more document parameters other than document name selected during the registration session and registered for the selected application functionality and the application functionality is provided in the operations user interface when the specific user logins in the later operations session along with the one or more document parameters registered for the application functionality and not including other document parameters in the document management apparatus that were not registered for the application functionality.

In another aspect the operations user interface includes a search part and during the registration session the registration user interface permits selection of a subset less than all of document parameters in the document management apparatus and the subset of selected document parameters are registered for the search part and the search part of the operations user interface provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session allows for user selection from the registered document parameters and not from other document parameters in the document management apparatus that were not registered for the search part.

In another aspect at least one of the application functionalities is registered with only document types selected during the registration session and the application functionality is provided in the operations user interface when the specific user logins in the later operations session along with the document types registered for the application functionality and not including other document types in the document management apparatus that were not registered for the application functionality.

In describing preferred embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner. In addition a detailed description of known functions and configurations will be omitted when it may obscure the subject matter of the present invention.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views shows schematically a system for streamlining access in a document management system according to an exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

System includes a plurality of client terminals through a document management apparatus and a document access apparatus or also referenced herein as application user interface apparatus all of which are interconnected by a network .

The document management apparatus may be substantially similar to the document management system depicted in and may include a plurality of application functionalities. The plurality of client terminals through may be substantially similar to those depicted in . In particular the client terminals through are configured with software allowing the client terminals to communicate through the network with at least the document access apparatus and preferably also the document management apparatus . In particular the client terminals through may transmit data to and receive data from the document access apparatus .

Document access apparatus includes a user registration part user information maintenance part and an application operations part

The user registration part is configured to provide a registration user interface for registration of a specific user in a registration session. An example of a first screen of a registration user interface provided by the user registration part during a registration session for registration of a specific user is depicted in . This first screen of the registration user interface may be used to register a user John Smith by for example allowing the user to enter in data such as the user s full name username password organization department office address office phone number etc. . . . as seen in . This data may be maintained by the user information maintenance part of the document access apparatus as will be discussed below.

It should be apparent that the data entered for registration of the specific user is not limited to that shown in which merely presents an example. In particular the user can instead or in addition store various other data including any data that may be used to identify a user of a client terminal that may be in communication with a document management apparatus. For example the data can include a plurality of names addresses screen names email addresses facsimile numbers etc. The data may include biometric information such as fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc .

In addition to registering a specific user in a registration session the registration user interface provided by the user registration part is also configured for selection during the registration session of specific ones of a plurality of application functionalities of the document management apparatus for the specific user. The selected application functionalities are then registered in connection with the user registration of the specific user.

An example of a second screen of a registration user interface provided by the user registration part in a registration session for selection and registration of application functionalities of a document management apparatus is depicted in .

The application functionalities of the document management apparatus as described in this disclosure may be one of any of a plurality of features and functions provided for users by the document management apparatus. For example the application functionality may be a specific command to access view or edit document data or a document database or a specific command to upload document data to a document database or a specific command to download document data from a document database. Moreover an application functionality of the document management apparatus may be a command for the user to select that corresponds to a macro specified by the user where a macro is a series of instructions that are executed one after the other in a selected order.

In the example of the user has so far selected and registered three application functionalities. The three application functionalities are user defined macros that have been named Patient Medical Records Patient Billing Records and Pathology Test Results . It will be seen that the first selected application functionality named Patient Medical Records is a macro that has been specified by the user to include the step of uploading document to a selected directory address. Thus it is possible that when a user selects a document and then selects the macro Patient Medical Records the selected document will be uploaded directly to the specified directory address. The user may perform this operation by selecting and dragging an icon of the document from a desktop display over to a Patient Medical Records macro button for example.

It should be apparent that the application functionalities selected and registered by the specific user are not limited to that shown in which merely presents an example. The registration user interface is configured to allow a specific user to define select and register one of any of a plurality of application functionalities of the document management apparatus.

For example suppose a user of a document management system regularly uploads a new kind of document daily to a specific folder Latest Review and at the same time always wishes to move another file from the Latest Review folder to anther Previous Reviews folder. The user may define a macro with multiple steps wherein a selected document is always uploaded to a first directory and a second document defined by creation data author format or any of a number of document parameters is deleted from the first directory and moved to a second directory. Thus the operational convenience to the user is greatly increased.

When the user clicks the Save button shown in the user may register the selected application functionality. Alternatively when the user clicks the Delete button the user may unselect i.e. remove the selected application functionality.

This second screen may be provided to the user after the first screen of the registration user interface such as the screen shown in is provided to the user for registration of the specific user. Thus the selected application functionalities are registered in connection with the user registration of the specific user. In the case of for example the application functionalities named Patient Medical Records Patient Billing Records and Pathology Test Results will be registered in connection with the user registration of the specific username John.Smith. 

Returning to the user information maintenance part is configured to maintain user information for the specific user. In particular the user information includes functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities which may have been selected by the specific user via the registration user interface depicted in for example and which are now registered for the specific user by the user information maintenance part

For example for the username John.Smith the corresponding functionalities information identifies application functionalities that include the macros named Patient Medical Records Patient Billing Records and Pathology Test Results . Similarly for the username Jane.Doe the corresponding functionalities information identifies application functionalities that include search functions named Discovery Material Petitions Briefs and Invoices . The functionalities information need not simply list the name and type of the application functionality as depicted in in the interests of clarity but may further include all information pertaining to the application functionality such as the defined steps of a macro how a macro button is to be visually presented etc. . . . .

It should be apparent that the user information is not limited to that shown in which merely presents an example. In particular while the user information shown includes usernames and functionalities information the user information can instead or in addition store various other information including information that may be used to identify a user of a client terminal that may be in communication with a document management apparatus. For example the user information can include a plurality of names and or screen names email addresses telephone numbers facsimile numbers etc. The user information may include biometric information such as fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc .

The application operations part of the document access apparatus is configured to access upon login by the specific user in a later operations session the user information of the specific user and retrieve the functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user.

For example if the user John.Smith logs into document access apparatus then the document access apparatus accesses the user information as depicted in and retrieves the functionalities information indicting the application functionalities registered for John.Smith specifically the macros Patient Medical Records Patient Billing Records and Pathology Test Results. 

The application operations part is also configured to provide in this later operations session an operations user interface for display on a client terminal for the specific user to view. The operations user interface shows the retrieved functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities for the specific user or simply shows command buttons corresponding to the application functionalities. The operations user interface may be provided by the document access apparatus as a web service through the network to one of the client terminals through .

An example of an operations user interface provided by the application operations part upon login of a specific user in a later operations session is depicted in . It will be seen that the operations user interface includes commands indicating specific application functionalities for the specific user that has logged in.

For example this operations user interface may correspond to the specific username John.Smith who was registered via the registration user interface depicted in . This operations user interface also depicts the application functionalities that were registered for the specific user in including the Patient Medical Records macro the Patient Billing Records Macro and the Pathology Test Results macro. The operations user interface further includes many other application functionalities that may have been registered for the username John.Smith. These include the macros Medical Reference Texts On Call Duty Roster and Medical Inventory as well as application functionalities to upload a document download a document perform a search function access specific databases and so forth. It should be understood that such functionality options are merely exemplary and these options may be customized for each user according to this disclosure. Further it can be seen that even the layout background button sizes etc. . . . for the operations user interfaces is entirely customizable.

As stated above the Patient Medical Records macro corresponds to the macro that was selected and registered by the username John.Smith in . Thus when the user John Smith selects a document and then selects the macro Patient Medical Records the selected document will be uploaded directly to the specified directory address. The user John Smith may perform this operation selecting and dragging an icon of the document from a desktop display over the Patient Medical Records macro button for example.

Thus according to this exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is provided the tools for the efficient exchange and management of documents and files and for streamlining access in a document management system. Whereas conventional techniques typically only provide a single interface for all users of a document management system which forces users to perform cumbersome onscreen navigation through an explorer type interface and drill down through many hierarchical directory levels every time a user wishes to access a document the system of the present application resisters selected application functionalities including customized macros and search functions of a specific user in a registration session and provides an operations user interface showing the specific application functionalities upon login of the specific user. Hence the operational convenience to users of the present invention is greatly increased.

The document access apparatus may be embodied as a server that is distinct from the document management apparatus . In this way the document access apparatus may correspond to a first server and the document management apparatus may correspond to a second server separate and distinct from the first server. Hence while conventional document management systems typically have an integrated user interface such that any modification of the user interface would require taking the document management system offline the document access apparatus of this disclosure is configured for modification without taking the document management apparatus offline.

In there is shown an example of a workflow on a document access apparatus side such as the document access apparatus in .

Firstly a registration user interface is provided by the document access apparatus to a specific user at a terminal S .

Further the registration user interface is configured to allow user selection of specific ones of a plurality of application functionalities of a document management apparatus for the specific user. In S the registration user interface registers the selected application functionalities in connection with the user registration.

In S the document access apparatus maintains user information for the specific user the user information including functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user.

Then in S the document access apparatus determines if the specific user has logged into the document access apparatus in an operations session.

If it is determined that the specific user has not logged in S no then the workflow returns to S and the document access apparatus again determines if the specific user has logged in in an operations session. If it is determined that the specific user has logged in S yes then the document access apparatus retrieves the functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user S . In S an operations user interface is provided to the specific user where the operations user interface shows the retrieved functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities for the specific user.

According to another aspect of this disclosure the user information may also include business relevancy information indicating a specific business relevancy field pertinent to the registered user such as Medical for username John.Smith and Legal for username Jane.Doe. An example of user information that includes such business relevancy information is depicted in . The user information in may also include the functionalities information as shown in although the functionalities information is omitted in the interests of clarity . When the operations user interface receives user authentication information during the login of the specific user the operations user interface may utilize the user authentication information to retrieve the business relevancy information of the specific user and present information corresponding to the specific business relevancy field pertinent to the specific user and indicated by the retrieved business relevancy information of the specific user. Such information may include news updates and bulletins for the specific business relevancy field for example.

The operations user interface may also provide user interface application functionalities corresponding to the specific business relevancy field pertinent to the specific user and not other application functionalities that are unrelated to the specific business relevancy field . These application functionalities may include common or popular business relevancy field related search functions and macros and activators to access these application functionalities. The user information may include user interface information as depicted in that specifies these application functionalities that correspond to a particular business relevancy field.

According to another aspect of this disclosure after the specific user selects and registers the specific application functionalities of the document management apparatus during the registration session via the registration user interface the registration user interface provides a tentative view of the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities in order for the specific user to determine if their operations user interface is satisfactory.

For example the registration user interface may provide a screen showing the operations user interface depicted in as well as a prompt that requests confirmation that the specific user is satisfied with the aspects of the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities . If the specific user confirms then the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logins in during a later operations session and the registration session may end.

If the user does not confirm then after the view of the operations user interface is displayed the registration user interface allows the user to unselect one or more of the selected application functionalities and the registration user interface provides an updated view of the operations user interface without the unselected application functionality. For example if the user does not confirm then the document access apparatus may provide the registration user interface screen B shown in . The user may click on the Delete button for any of the application functionalities to unselect that application functionality. Thereafter the registration user interface again shows an operations user interface such as that depicted in this time without the unselected application functionalities and the registration user interface again requests confirmation that the specific user is satisfied with the aspects of the operations user interface.

Thus although not shown in the user information maintained by the user information maintenance part for the specific user includes all the user interface information required for generating the confirmed operations user interface including the selected application functionalities when the specific user logins in during a later operations session.

According to another aspect of this disclosure one of the application functionalities selected by the specific user through the registration user interface may be registered in correspondence with one or more document parameters and or one or more document types.

Document parameters include one of many parameters pertaining to a document such as document name size author creation date modification date file format directory location and so forth. The document type may be one of many types of documents such as a memorandum invoice resume sales document and so forth.

With reference to there is depicted a registration user interface for selecting and registering application functionalities similar to the registration user interface depicted in . The application functionalities selected and registered in include search functions named Invoices Discovery Material and Petitions and Briefs . It will be seen that the Search Invoices application functionality is registered with only one selected document type an invoice document type. Further it may be seen that the user has selected a subset of document parameters with respect to this search function Date Created Author Directory and Format and these document parameters are registered for this search function. The document type and document parameters may be selected using pull down option menus for example.

Thus according to an aspect of this disclosure at least one of the application functionalities selected through the user registration part is registered with a document type and or document parameter selected during the registration session and registered for the selected application functionality and the application functionality is provided in the operations user interface when the specific user logins in the later operations session along with the document type and or document parameter registered for the application functionality and not including other document types parameters in the document management apparatus that were not registered for the application functionality.

Similarly in another aspect the operations user interface includes a search part and during the registration session the registration user interface permits selection of a subset less than all of document parameters in the document management apparatus and the subset of selected document parameters are registered for the search part and the search part of the operations user interface provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session allows for user selection from the registered document parameters and not from other document parameters in the document management apparatus that were not registered for the search part.

Although depict both a document type and document parameters being registered for an application functionality it should be understood that document types may be registered for an application functionality without registering any document parameters and vice versa. On the other hand it may be possible to configure a document management apparatus so that some document parameters of a document may be dependent upon the document type of the document. For example if the document type is an invoice then the document parameters may be vendor name invoice number invoice amount and other parameters that are specific to this document type and functionally related to this document type.

Turning now to there is shown schematically a system for streamlining access in a document management system according to another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

System includes a plurality of client terminals through a document management apparatus and a document access apparatus .

The document management apparatus may be substantially similar to the document management apparatus of . However the document management apparatus further includes an application program interface and an access control part . The application program interface is configured to specify a format of communication with the document management apparatus .

The application program interface is similar to the application programming interfaces APIs known in the art which are interfaces often implemented in software that specify the commands and instructions that an application or device may be configured to accept. In this way the application program interface of the document management apparatus may include specifications for routines and protocols that are to be used when communicating with the document management apparatus or requesting the application functionalities of the document management apparatus such as uploading accessing and downloading documents .

The document access apparatus is similar to the document access apparatus of . Further the document access apparatus is configured to communicate with the application program interface of the document management apparatus when user input is received at the operations user interface of the document access apparatus . The user input through the operations user interface may be for example request to upload download a document to from the document management apparatus or a request to access some other application functionality of the document management apparatus. The document access apparatus is also configured to send a command corresponding to the user input and acceptable to the document management apparatus to the document management apparatus to access one or more corresponding application functionalities of the document management apparatus.

Specifically when the document access apparatus communicates with the application program interface of the document management apparatus the document access apparatus determines a set of possible instructions that the document management apparatus is able to accept. Based on this set of possible instructions the document access apparatus prepares a command or set of commands corresponding to the user input that the document management apparatus is able to accept and transmits this command to the document management apparatus.

For example if the user input is a request to download all instances of a certain type of document such as a spreadsheet or a presentation document that is known to be associated with a certain file format such as .xml or .ppt then the document access apparatus communicates with the application program interface of the document management apparatus in order to determine the protocols for requesting documents of a specific file format from the document management apparatus. The document access apparatus can then prepare and transmit the appropriate command that is acceptable to the document management apparatus.

The document access apparatus is also configured to receive at least one document or other piece of information from the application program interface of the document management apparatus in response to the command transmitted from the document access apparatus to the document management apparatus . Following this the operations user interface provides the document or other information for access by the specific user.

Thus the document access apparatus of this disclosure has the capacity to receive user input from one of a plurality of user interfaces and send a command corresponding to the user input to a document management apparatus to access an application functionality of the document management apparatus where the command is prepared so as to be acceptable to the document management apparatus. Since the document access apparatus prepares the command by communicating with an application program interface of a document management apparatus the document access apparatus becomes highly flexible and has the capacity to communicate with a plurality of different document management apparatuses.

In particular the application functionalities selected through the user registration part during the registration of the specific user in the registration session may include specific commands for the specific user to later select via the operations user interface during a later operations session for transmission to an application program interface of the document management apparatus .

The access control part of the document management apparatus is configured to maintain for each registered user access control information indicating portions of documents and document data in a document database that the registered user is authorized to access.

While this discussion of the access control information refers to documents the access control information can of course relate to other types of information that the specific user is authorized to access such as the databases to which the specific user has access privileges or application functionalities to which the specific user has access privileges. Therefore the application functionalities selected through the user registration part via a registration user interface during a registration session may include access to a plurality of databases to which the specific user has access privileges where the databases to which the specific user has access privileges are defined in the access control information. The access control information may be set by a systems administrator or manager for example.

When a command selected by the specific user via the operations user interface in a later operations session is transmitted to the application program interface of the document management apparatus the document management apparatus only applies the command to the documents and document data to which the specific user is authorized to access.

For example if the command selected by the specific user John.Smith is a command to download a document H from the document management apparatus then the document management apparatus will not apply the command to the document H since the access control information in the example of indicates that the user John.Smith is not authorized to access the document H . On the other hand if the command selected by the specific user John.Smith is a command to download a document C from the document management apparatus then the document management apparatus will apply the command to the document C since the access control information in the example of indicates that the user John.Smith is authorized to access the document C .

In a flow chart is shown illustrating an example of a more detailed workflow on a document access apparatus side such as the document access apparatus in .

Firstly a registration user interface is provided by the document access apparatus to a specific user at a terminal S .

In S the registration user interface registers the specific user in a registration session. Then in S the user selects or unselects specific ones of a plurality of application functionalities of a document management apparatus via the registration user interface.

In S the registration user interface provides a view of an operations user interface including the selected application functionalities to the specific user. Also provided is a request to confirm that the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logs in a later operations session.

If the user does not confirm S no then the workflow returns to S and the user is able to select unselect application functionalities of the document management apparatus the registration user interface provides an updated view of the operations user interface with the selected application functionalities and without the unselected application functionalities in S as well as another request to confirm that the operations user interface is to be provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session.

If the user confirms S yes then the registration user interface registers the selected application functionalities in connection with the user registration in S. In S the document access apparatus maintains user information for the specific user the user information including functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user. Then in S the document access apparatus determines if the specific user has logged into the document access apparatus in an operations session.

If it is determined that the specific user has not logged in S no then the workflow returns to S and the document access apparatus again determines if the specific user has logged into an operations session.

If it is determined that the specific user has logged in S yes then the document access apparatus retrieves the functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user in S.

In S an operations user interface is provided to the specific user where the operations user interface shows the retrieved functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities for the specific user.

After providing the operations user interface for display to the user S the user may input an instruction requesting the document access apparatus and or document management apparatus to perform a particular operation in S. For example the user may issue an instruction for the document access apparatus to upload a particular document or file to the document management apparatus. The user may also input a specific command corresponding to one of the application functionalities including a specified macro.

In S the document access apparatus determines if the user has access privileges or authorization to access the document data to which the instruction pertains based on access control information. If the document access apparatus determines that the user is not authorized to access the document data s no then the workflow returns to S and the user may input another instruction.

If the document access apparatus determines that the user is authorized to access the document data s yes then document access apparatus accesses the application program interface API of the document management apparatus in order to determine the set of possible instructions that the document management apparatus is able to accept S . In S the document access apparatus determines the appropriate command to be issued to the document management apparatus based on the user instructions input in S and the set of possible instructions determined in S. In this way the document access apparatus may convert the user instruction into a command that the document management apparatus is able to accept. For example the document access apparatus may convert an instruction for a particular medical document into a request for files with an attribute that the document management apparatus can process. The document access apparatus also transmits the command to the document management apparatus in S.

In S the document access apparatus receives from the document management apparatus the image data of a document or some other information in response to the command transmitted in S.

After receiving the document or other information in S the document access apparatus provides the document or other information received from the document management apparatus to the logged in user via the operations user interface S .

Although not shown the document access apparatus may also determine between S and S if the application functionalities selected by the specific user pertains to documents document data application functionalities or databases to which the specific user has access privileges. The document access apparatus may make this determination based on access control information which may be set at some point in time by a system administrator for example . If the document access apparatus determines that the user does not have access privileges with respect to the selected application functionality then an error message may be displayed and the workflow may be prevented from proceeding to S or beyond.

While the examples shown in and include one document management apparatus one document access apparatus and four client terminals through it should be appreciated that such numbers of systems servers apparatuses and terminals are arbitrary and are selected as an example in order to facilitate discussion and that the subject matter of this disclosure can be implemented in a system including one or more systems servers apparatuses and terminals. Further it is noted that a document access apparatus and terminal can be included in one integrated device or of course can be separate devices . Other devices such as scanners printers and multi function devices MFDs may also be connected to the network as is well known in the art.

Each of the client terminals through can be any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a FDA personal digital assistant a MFD multi function device a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. that can communicate through the network with other devices.

While four client terminals through are depicted in each of and it should be understood that system and can include any number of client terminals which can have similar or different configurations connected to the network .

The document access apparatus and can be configured in software or hosted on any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a PDA personal digital assistant a MFD a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. that can communicate through the network with other devices.

The document access apparatus and of this disclosure may be realized by a computer program product including a computer usable non transient medium such as a disk storage apparatus having instructions tangibly embodied therein that are executed by a computer.

Thus it should be understood that document access apparatus and may be executed on a computer. While document access apparatus and are shown as being external to the client terminals through the document access apparatus and may in fact be executed on one of the client terminals through .

The document management apparatus may include a data store that can comprise one or more structural or functional parts that have or support a storage function. For example the data store can be or can be a component of a source of electronic data such as a document access apparatus a backend server connected to a document access apparatus an e mail server a file server a multi function peripheral device MFP or MFD a voice data server an application server a computer a network apparatus a terminal etc. It should be appreciated that the term electronic document or electronic data as used herein in its broadest sense can comprise any data that a user may wish to access retrieve review etc.

The network can include one or more of a secure intranet or extranet local area network a wide area network any type of network that allows secure access etc. or a combination thereof. Further other secure communications links such as a virtual private network a wireless link etc. may be used as well in the network . In addition the network preferably uses TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol but other protocols can also be used. How devices can connect to and communicate over the network is well known in the art and is discussed for example in How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 and How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The document access apparatus may be a special purpose device such as including one or more application specific integrated circuits or an appropriate network of conventional component circuits or it may be software configured on a conventional personal computer or computer workstation with sufficient memory processing and communication capabilities to operate as a terminal and or server as will be appreciated to those skilled in the relevant arts.

In document access apparatus the controller executes program code instructions that control conferencing apparatus operations. The controller memory storage network interface display and keyboard are conventional and therefore in order to avoid occluding the inventive aspects of this disclosure such conventional aspects will not be discussed in detail herein.

The document access apparatus includes the network interface for communications through a network such as communications through the network with the client terminals through and document management apparatus in . However it should be appreciated that the subject matter of this disclosure is not limited to such configuration. For example the document access apparatus may communicate with the client terminals through and document management apparatus through direct connections and or through a network to which some components are not connected. As another example the document access apparatus need not be provided by a server that services terminals but rather may communicate with the terminals on a peer basis or in another fashion.

As mentioned above document access apparatus and are not limited to a server or computer but can be manifested in any of various devices that can be configured to communicate over a network and or the Internet.

Note that one or more of the user interfaces such as the registration user interface or the operations user interface may be provided as web services through the network to the client terminal.

An example of a configuration of one of the plurality of client terminals through for example as a computer is shown schematically in . In computer includes a controller or central processing unit that communicates with a number of other components including memory display keyboard and or keypad other input output such as mouse touchpad stylus microphone and or speaker with voice speech interface and or recognition software etc. and network interface by way of internal bus .

The memory can provide storage for program and data and may include a combination of assorted conventional storage devices such as buffers registers and memories for example read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile random access memory NOVRAM etc. .

The network interface provides a connection for example by way of an Ethernet connection or other network connection which supports any desired network protocol such as but not limited to TCP IP IPX IPX SPX or NetBEUI to network .

A user interface is provided and is configured through software natively or received through a network connection to allow the user to access electronic data or content on the client terminal and or via the network interact with network connected devices and services such as the document management apparatus enjoy other software driven functionalities etc. For example a browser such as Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator a proprietary browser etc. may be provided on the client terminal so that a user of the client terminal can use browsing operations to communicate with the document management apparatus and access other data or content.

Additional aspects or components of the computer are conventional unless otherwise discussed herein and in the interest of clarity and brevity are not discussed in detail herein. Such aspects and components are discussed for example in How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 and How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As mentioned above each of the client terminals through is not limited to a personal computer but can be manifested in a form of any of various devices that can be configured to communicate over a network and or the Internet.

Firstly at the start of a registration session a registration user interface is provided by a document access apparatus to a specific user at a terminal. S . The registration user interface is provided for registration of a specific user during the registration session. Moreover the registration user interface is provided for selection of specific ones of a plurality of application functionalities of a document management apparatus for the specific user and for registration of the selected application functionalities in connection with the user registration.

In S information is transmitted back to the document access apparatus the information pertaining to the registration of the specific user and registration of the specific ones of the application functionalities of the document management apparatus selected by the specific user.

In S a view of an operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is provided to the specific user as well as a request to confirm that the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logs in into a later operations session.

When the view of the operations user interface is displayed the registration user interface allows the user to unselect one or more of the selected application functionalities and the registration user interface provides an updated view of the operations user interface without the unselected application functionality as well as another request to confirm that the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session.

In S a confirmation is transmitted back to the document access apparatus confirming that the operations user interface including the selected application functionalities is to be provided when the specific user logins in the later operations session.

As result user information including functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user is maintained by the document access apparatus for the specific user. This point may mark the end of the registration session that commenced at or before S.

Then at a later time in S the specific user logs into the document access apparatus in a later operations session. Upon login by the specific user in S the maintained functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities registered for the specific user is retrieved.

In S an operations user interface is provided to the specific user where the operations user interface shows the retrieved functionalities information indicating the specific application functionalities for the specific user.

In S the user may enter a specific command in the operations user interface the specific command being selected for transmission from the document access apparatus to an application program interface of a document management apparatus.

Finally in S the specific command is transmitted from the document access apparatus to the application program interface of a document management apparatus.

The above mentioned specific embodiments are illustrative and many variations can be introduced on these embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure or from the scope of the appended claims. For example elements and or features of different examples and illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

