---

title: Managing items in a networked environment
abstract: A system, methods and interfaces are provided for managing items in a networked environment. A set of items, such as publications or other works, can be embodied in tangible media that are mutually exclusive. In response to a selection of an item, a prioritized order of the tangible media corresponding to the selected item is provided. Each tangible media can be further subdivided into a prioritized order of physical attributes of the respective tangible media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429539&OS=08429539&RS=08429539
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08429539
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100629
---
Generally described computing devices and communication networks can be utilized to exchange information. In a common application a computing device can request content from another computing device via the communication network. For example a user at a personal computing device can utilize a software browser application to request a Web page from a server computing device via the Internet. In such embodiments the user computing device can be referred to as a client computing device and the server computing device can be referred to as a content provider.

With reference to an illustrative embodiment a content provider can provide a network resource such as a Web page that can correspond to one or more items available for a user to select view or indicate a desire to purchase. For example a content provider can provide a Web page associated with the display and sale of shoes. In this illustrative embodiment the items corresponding to the Web page e.g. shoes for sale can be associated with various attributes such as foot size color manufacturer style etc. Accordingly to allow users to locate one or more specific items the content provider s Web page can allow users to designate one or more attributes of interest. The designated attributes can then be used as filtering criteria for a greater subset of items such as a catalog of all shoes available for selection viewing or purchasing via the Web page. Specifically the content provider can narrow the subset of items that are presented to a user via the Web page based on matches exclusions to the filtering criteria. As the process is repeated with additional filtering criteria e.g. the specification of values for more physical attributes users may be able to iteratively focus the items available for selection. This type of interaction can be referred to generally as a multi dimensional selection environment in which each specified attribute search criteria corresponds to a dimension. 

In the above illustrative example of a multi dimensional selection environment the subset of items presented to the user have a degree of overlap with regard to multiple physical attributes e.g. all the shoes have the physical attributes of a size and a color . In one aspect because of the overlapping physical attributes the physical attributes are readily known to the users. Thus the typical user would be able to enter specific physical attribute values e.g. color to identify items of interest. In another aspect the order of the specified physical attribute data is not as relevant in terms of yielding search results. With continued reference to the shoe example a specification of shoe color first followed by size will likely yield the same results or at least similar results as a specification of size followed by shoe color. However the traditional multi dimensional selection environment approach can become deficient for groups of items in which the attributes are not overlapping or have limited overlap.

Generally described the present disclosure is directed to the management of items in a networked environment. Specifically aspects of the present disclosure will be described with regard to the management of items in which one or more items can be embodied in different instance types. In an illustrative embodiment the items can correspond to works or publications such that each instance type corresponds to a tangible medium embodying the work. Still further for each item each tangible medium is mutually exclusive from other tangible media and can be further subdivided by into one or more physical attributes corresponding to the respective tangible medium. One skilled in relevant art will appreciate that item or items may refer to any number of physical goods or services that can be provided or otherwise rendered on behalf of a requestor.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment based on a selection of item such as via a network resource e.g. a Web page a content provider system can determine two or more instance types that correspond to the selected item. The instance types are illustratively mutually exclusively. Responsive to the selection the content provider can determine a prioritized order for the two or more instance types and provide the prioritize order for display to the requesting user. Illustratively the generated display can include selectable representations of the prioritized order of instance types. Based on the selection of a specific representation of an instance type the content provider system can further determine one or more attributes corresponding to the instance type and prioritize the one or more attributes. Accordingly responsive to the selection of a specific representation of an instance type the content provider system can provide the prioritized order of attributes for display to the requesting user.

As described above the set of items managed by the content provider system correspond to works or publications. Accordingly in an illustrative embodiment the representation of the two or more instance types corresponds to the representation of two or more tangible media instance types for a selected work. Examples of such tangible media include but are not limited to printed media e.g. hardback paperback audio media e.g. CDs DVDs a downloadable audio file for generating audio signals and electronic media e.g. a media file for display on an electronic reader book or an image or video file for rendering on a display and the like. With continued reference to this specific embodiment each definition of a tangible medium instance type can be further subdivided into one or more physical attributes unique to the tangible medium. For example an audio media instance type may be subdivided into a digital audio file embodied in an optical storage media e.g. a CD or DVD or a digital audio file embodied in a semiconductor based storage media e.g. an encoded file transmitted and stored in a memory component .

Although aspects of the present disclosure will be described with regard to works or publications one skilled in the art will appreciate that the present disclosure is not to be limited solely to application with works or printed publications. Additionally the disclosed environment methods processes and interfaces are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting.

With reference to an illustrative networked environment for the management of items will be described. The networked environment includes a number of client computing devices for generating requests selecting items managed by a content provider. The client computer devices can correspond to a wide variety of devices or components that are capable of initiating receiving or facilitating communications over a communication network including but not limited to personal computing devices electronic book readers e.g. e book readers hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices home electronics appliances vehicles machinery smart phones modems personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices media devices and the like. Additionally illustratively the client computing devices can render information one or more displays.

In an illustrative embodiment the client computing devices may include one or more processing units such as one or more CPUs. The client computing devices may also include system memory which may correspond to any combination of volatile and or non volatile storage mechanisms. The system memory may store information which provides an operating system component various program components program data and other components. The above enumerated list of components is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed or components implemented by the client computing devices . The client computing devices performs functions by using the processing unit s to execute instructions provided by the system memory. The client computing devices may also include one or more input devices keyboard mouse device specialized selection keys etc. and one or more output devices displays printers audio output mechanisms etc. . Additionally the client computing devices may also be in communication via a wired or wireless connection with one or more external out devices such as external monitors speakers etc.

In an illustrative embodiment the client computing devices include necessary hardware and software components for establishing communications over a communication network such as a wide area network e.g. the Internet or a local area network. For example the client computing devices may be equipped with networking equipment and browser software applications that facilitate communications via the Internet or an intranet.

With continued reference to the networked environment includes a content provider system for managing items via the communication network . The content provider system can correspond to a number of computing devices for interfacing with client computing devices to provide information utilized to generate displays of prioritized instance types on the client computing devices. Illustrative components of the content provider system will be described with regard to . In communication with the content provider system is an item data store for maintaining information about items managed by the content provider system . Also in communication with the content provider system is a user information data store for maintaining information about users of the networked environment . The item data store and user information data store may correspond to a number of computing devices having memory for maintaining information. Although illustrated as in direct communication with the content provider system the item data store and user information data store may be remote from the content provider system . Additionally the item data store and user information data store may distributed across various computing devices via a communication network.

In an alternative embodiment the content provider system may also be configured as a network based service such as a Web service. In this embodiment one or more computing systems such as a client computing device would request prioritized lists of instance types or prioritized lists of attributes for a specified instance type from the content provider system . For example the client computing device could request the prioritized list of instance types or prioritized lists of attributes for an instance type via an application programming interface API . In turn the content provider system would return the requested information in accordance with the API.

Turning now to an illustrative block diagram of the functions provided by the content provider system will be described. The content provider system can include an interface component for interfacing with client computing devices . Illustratively the interface component can obtain user selections of items such as via a Web page. Additionally the interface component can transmit data or otherwise cause data to be transmitted responsive to user selections that include prioritized lists of instance data or prioritized lists of physical attributes corresponding to a selected item and a selected instance type respectively. The content provider system can also include an item management processing component for determining the prioritized lists of instance data for a selected item. The item management processing component may utilize information corresponding to a manual configuration of instance types for items. Alternatively the item management processing component can dynamically process item information to determine a set of potential instance types. The item management processing component can further determine the prioritized lists of physical attributes for a selected instance type. Still further the item management processing component can filter or otherwise process the prioritized list according to user information such as user geographic information or user purchase history information. As previously described the content provider system is in communication with the item data store and user information data store .

Similar to client computing devices the components of the content provider system may include one or more processing units such as one or more CPUs. The components of the content provider system may also include system memory which may correspond to any combination of volatile and or non volatile storage mechanisms. The system memory may store information which provides an operating system component various program components program data and other components. The above enumerated list of components is representative and is not exhaustive of the types of functions performed or components implemented by the content provider system . The content provider system performs functions by using the processing unit s to execute instructions provided by the system memory. The content provider system may also include one or more input devices keyboard mouse device specialized selection keys etc. and one or more output devices displays printers audio output mechanisms etc. . Additionally the content provider system may also be in communication via a wired or wireless connection with one or more external out devices such as external monitors speakers etc. However one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that at least some of the components of the content provider system may be specialized for specific roles such that at least a portion of the above enumerated software or hardware description may be omitted. For example at least one computing device associated with the content provider system may be a dedicated server computing device not requiring a display output device.

In accordance with the present disclosure items such as works or publications may be embodied in a variety of instance types that may be mutually exclusive. Specifically a specific embodiment of the instance type is mutually exclusive from another embodiment of the instance type. With reference to works each instance type can correspond to a media embodying the specific work. For example reference to a printed publication could correspond to the rendering of a literary work on paper media e.g. a hardback book . Likewise reference to an audio media could correspond to the rendering storage of a musical work on an optical media or semiconductor media. Each specific instance type may be further broken down into one or more attributes that are descriptive of variations of the instance types. Illustratively each identified attribute can correspond to the specific item that can be requested ordered or purchased by the user. With continued reference to works the attributes can correspond to physical attributes of the specific media which likely varies from media type to media type. For example a printed publication instance type may be associated with different binding types as attributes. The items may be further characterized by any number of hierarchical levels corresponding to attributes or groups of attributes.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrative of a hierarchy of instance types and attributes for a work will be described. The hierarchy of instance types includes a base node corresponding to a highest level of the hierarchy of instance types . As illustrated in the base node corresponds to a title of the work Title of Book which is representative of the item selected by a user via a client computing device . The hierarchy of instance types then includes a plurality of nodes corresponding to the available embodiments of the item. Specifically the hierarchy of instance types includes a node corresponding to a hardback binding type a node corresponding to a paperback binding type a node corresponding to an electronic book representation e.g. a digital file for rendering by an electronic book reader and a node corresponding to an audio book representation e.g. an audio file embodied in some tangible media . The instance types for each item may vary according to the number of identifiable mutually exclusive types of a given item. Furthermore the definition of mutually exclusive instance types may be customized by a content provider. For example a content provider may consider a digital audio representation to be a different mutually exclusive instance type from an analog representation.

With continued reference to each instance type can be further subdivided into one or more attributes such as physical attributes. Each attribute is associated with the specific instance type and may vary from item to item. As illustrated in node e.g. hardback corresponds to two attribute nodes Attribute and Attribute . By way of example node can correspond to a large print edition and node can correspond to an illustrated edition. Node e.g. paperback corresponds to three attributes nodes Attribute Attribute and Attribute . By way of example node and node can correspond to various paper weights of the paperback editions. Node e.g. e book can correspond to two attribute nodes Attribute A and Attribute B . By way of example node can correspond to an abridged version and node can correspond to content having digital rights management encoding. Finally node e.g. Audio can correspond to three attribute nodes Attribute A Attribute K and Attribute L . By way of example node can correspond to an abridged version while nodes and correspond to different storage media such as CD ROM audio cassette audio download and the like. As illustrated in it may be possible for instance types to have some attributes in common such as node . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the above hierarchy of instance types is illustrative in nature with regard to the specific number and identification of instance types and attributes. Accordingly the specific examples illustrated in should not be construed as limiting.

Turning now to a flow diagram illustrative of a content management routine implemented by the content provider system for managing items will be described. At block the content provider system obtains a selection of an item. Illustratively the selection of the item may be facilitated through the interaction of the client computing device with a network resource such as a Web page. The selection may correspond to an indication of a desire to purchase an item to request more information about a selected item. to provide information about an item e.g. rate an item to select an item to from a wishlist and the like. In an alternative embodiment the selection of the item may be obtained via information included in an API. At block the content provider system determines a set of applicable instance types corresponding to the selected item. In illustrative embodiment the item data store may include information identifying instance types for an item. In one embodiment the instance type information may be manually configured by a system administrator that determines each specific instance type. Alternatively the content provider system may dynamically determine the instance type information. For example the content provider system may dynamically conduct a statistical analysis of description information regarding tangible media to determine whether there are statistically significant differences in the description. Each statistically significant different may be determined to be a possible candidate for an instance type. In another embodiment the content provider system may utilize historical information such as purchase or browsing information to identify different instance types e.g. customers typically purchase either a hardback book or a paperback book . As applied to a selected item corresponding to a work the instance types would correspond to mutually exclusive tangible media embodying the selected work.

At block the content provider system processes the set of potential instance types. In one aspect the content provider system determines a prioritized list of instance data that will determine an order in which the instance types will be provided to a user. In one embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a seller of the instance type in which the content provider system gives different priorities to sellers or types of sellers e.g. .partners . In another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to shipping information regarding each tangible medium. In a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to an order dictated at least in part on customer reviews. In still another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to an order dictate at least in part on a profit to be made by the content provider. In still a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a classification of instance type such as new or used. In another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a selling price. In a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to amounts paid by sellers or service level agreements associated with sellers. Other prioritization criteria may be applied.

With continued reference to block in another aspect the content provider system can also filter the prioritized list of instance data according to user information. Illustratively the filtering can correspond to a context based processing of the ordered list of instance data. Illustratively the content provider system can utilize user profile information maintained in the user information data store . In one embodiment the content provider system can utilize geographic information for filtering instance data in which the content provider cannot provide the instance type. For example a content provider may not have a license to distribute an electronic version to some specific countries. In another embodiment the content provider system can utilize user purchase history to filter or re prioritize the prioritize list of instance data based on purchase histories. For example the content provider system can delete or reprioritize the hardback work instance types given the user s tendency to always purchase paperback work instance types. At block the content provider system transmits the processed list of instance data for display by the client computing device. An illustrative user interface incorporating the processed list of instance data will be described with regard to . Alternatively the processed list of instance types may be transmitted for processing such as via an API.

Thereafter at block the content provider system obtains a selection of a specific instance type such as by a user selection of a representation of an instance type on a user interface. As described above illustratively the selection of the representation of the instance type may be facilitated through the interaction of the client computing device with a network resource such as a Web page. Alternatively the specification of the instance type can be facilitated through an API. At block the content provider system determines a prioritized set of attributes for the selected instance type. In a manner similarly discussed above the content provider system can utilize various prioritization criteria for determining the prioritization of attributes. In n one embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a seller of the instance type in which the content provider system gives different priorities to sellers or types of sellers. In another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to shipping information regarding each tangible medium. In a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to an order dictated at least in part on customer reviews. In still another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to an order dictated at least in part on a profit to be made by the content provider. In still a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a release data corresponding to a public release of the work. In still a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a classification of attribute type such as grades of use. In another embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to a selling price. In a further embodiment the prioritization criteria can correspond to amounts paid by sellers or service level agreements associated with sellers. Other prioritization criteria may be applied.

At block the content provider system transmits the processed list of attribute data for display by the client computing device. An illustrative user interface incorporating the processed list of attribute data for a selected instance type will be described with regard to . The routine can continue at block based on a user interaction with the display of instance types and the display of various attributes for each selected instance type. Alternatively the processed list of attribute date may be transmitted for processing such as via an API. At block the routine terminates.

Turning now to a block diagram of screen display generated by a client computing device and illustrating the display of instance data based on a selection of an item will be described. For purposes of the description of it is assumed that the content provider system has obtained a user selection of an item and processed instance type information to determine the prioritized and possibly filtered set of instance types responsive to the user selection. The screen display includes a first object representative of the item selected by the user Title of the Book. 

The screen display further includes a display of a prioritized order of instance types of the item. As illustrated in the prioritized order includes a first representation of an instance type corresponding to an electronic book compatible media. The representation also includes a reference to a selling price. The prioritized order includes a second representation corresponding to a hardback media. The representation also includes a reference to a selling price. The prioritized order includes a third representation corresponding to a paperback media. Similarly the representation includes a reference to a selling price. Finally the prioritized order includes a fourth representation corresponding to an audio media. The representation includes a reference to a selling price.

In one embodiment the representation of selling price information may correspond to an average selling price for the tangible media or a lowest cost of the tangible media. In the event that additional instance types are available but have not been displayed or otherwise filtered the screen display includes a representation for viewing additional instance types. In another embodiment the representation of selling prices information may correspond to a specific tangible media that is available for selection purchase. The selection of the specific tangible media may be based on any one of the previously described prioritization criterion or multiple criteria. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the specific implementation of a screen display providing instance type information may vary according the display capabilities of the client computing devices a context in which the item was selected layout configurations made by the content provider or user specified criteria.

With reference now to a block diagram of a screen display generated by a client computing device and illustrating the display of attribute data based on a selection of an item will be described. For purposes of the description of it is assumed that the content provider system has obtained a user selection of a representation of one of the displayed instance types in namely the second representation e.g. hardback . The content provider system then has processed attribute information to determine the prioritized and possibly filtered set of attribute information responsive to the user selection.

The screen display includes at least some of the same display objects as illustrated in screen display including the selection of the specific hardback book previous. Additionally the second representation has been expanded to illustrate additional selectable attributes of the selected representation . Specifically the screen display includes a first representation corresponding to an illustrated physical attribute of the hardback instance type. The representation also includes a reference to a selling price. The screen display also includes a second representation corresponding to a large print physical attribute of the hardback instance type. The representation also includes a reference to a selling price. Finally the screen display includes a third representation corresponding to a leather bound hardback instance type. The third representation also includes a reference to a selling price. In the event that additional instance types are available but have not been displayed or otherwise filtered the screen display includes a representation for viewing additional attributes.

One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the specific implementation of a screen display providing instance type and attribute information may vary according the display capabilities of the client computing devices a context in which the item was selected layout configurations made by the content provider or user specified criteria.

All of the processes described herein may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. As such reference in the disclosure to actions performed by a module or component relates to the execution of executable instructions by a processing device or devices to cause the referenced action to be performed.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

