---

title: Automatic generation of tasks for search engine optimization
abstract: A method and a device for search engine optimization, that receives an identifier that identifies a domain, one or more keywords for analysis relative to a search engine, and search engine usage data, for each received keyword, gathering search engine results data, for at least one received keyword, mapping the at least one keyword to at least one web page within the identified domain, said mapping based on at least one of said search engine usage data and said search engine results data, and for at least one of the received keywords, generating at least one instruction to modify a web page element in a web page to which the at least one received keyword is mapped.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158856&OS=09158856&RS=09158856
owner: TASKMASTER TECHNOLOGIES INC.
number: 09158856
owner_city: Salinas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101224
---
The present invention relates to search engine optimization SEO specifically to the creation of instructions or tasks to be performed by a webmaster that improve the rankings of web pages in search engine results pages delivered by search engines.

Keyword searches performed by users of search engines result in web pages known as search engine results pages or SERPs that include unpaid search listings commonly referred to as organic search results as well as paid search listings. Individuals skilled in the creation updating and optimization of web pages referred to herein as webmasters can improve the placement of web pages in SERPS. Actions or methods that seek to obtain better positions among unpaid search listings are referred to as search engine optimization or simply SEO. SEO is typically targeted at the most popular search engines which currently include Google search Microsoft Bing and Yahoo .

When a visitor also referred to as a user clicks on a SERP listing his her browser is directed to a corresponding web page. The rate or percentage of time that a user clicks on a specific listing when presented with a search results page that includes the listing is referred to as a click through rate CTR . Data published by companies that provide search engines shows that with few exceptions CTR improves monotonically as the position of a listing improves within a SERP. Thus the first or highest position on the search results page has the highest CTR and the lowest position on the page has the lowest CTR for all organic search results listings on the page. Accordingly the goal of SEO is to improve the ranking or position of domains or web pages of interest in SERPs.

One approach to improving the position or ranking of a web page within a SERP is to adjust the content of the web page to better correspond to specific keyword searches. However since webmasters often manage large numbers of web pages and large numbers of keywords it may be burdensome to assign or map individual keywords to web pages and then modify the content of the web pages accordingly. Thus automated SEO tools that map keywords to web pages and that generate a list of instructions or tasks to modify the web pages so as to optimize the web pages for the mapped keywords are desirable.

The present invention concerns search engine optimization SEO and automated tools that assist a webmaster to improve the ranking of web pages within search results pages. Aspects of the present invention provide systems and methods that enable webmasters to periodically generate a list of instructions to perform to improve web traffic and or revenue resulting from web traffic to a web domain.

The present invention receives keywords and search engine usage data for a domain gathers search engine results data for the keywords analyzes the search engine usage data and search engine results data and maps the received keywords to individual web pages in the domain.

The present invention further generates a list of instructions to be performed by a webmaster to modify the content of the web pages to better target the web pages to the mapped keywords. In one embodiment some of the instructions generated by the present invention optimize a web page for keyword specific ranking factors that are taken into account by search engines in ranking web pages.

In one embodiment the present invention generates instructions whose goal is to increase the amount of traffic to an identified domain as a result of keyword searches using the received keywords. In another embodiment the present invention generates instructions whose goal is to increase the amount of revenue generated as a result of visits to an identified domain resulting from keyword searches using the received keywords.

The invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the invention may be embodied as methods processes systems business methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

User means an individual that uses a mobile device PC or other electronic device to access services provided by the present invention across a network.

Webmaster means an individual or entity that manages one or more web domains and or websites. As used herein a webmaster is an individual group of individuals or entity that interacts with the subject invention using user interfaces such as those described with reference to .

Keyword or search term refers to a word words phrase or sentence entered by a user into a search field in a web page also referred to as a keyword query which is then transmitted to a search engine that performs the requested search and returns results.

Search engine or Web search engine means a computer server or online service that receives keywords typically as a result of a keyword query uses the keywords to search for web pages that correspond to the keywords and returns a search engine results page SERP that lists the corresponding web pages. A search engine searches for information in the form of inter alia web pages and files on the World Wide Web and FTP servers. The search results are generally presented as a list or sequence of results in a search engine results page SERP .

Search Engine Results Page SERP means a list of web pages returned by a search engine in response to a keyword query. Each element in the list i.e. each listing typically includes a title a link to the web page and a short description showing where the keywords have matched content within the page. A SERP may refer to a single web page of links returned or to the set of all links returned for a search query possibly spanning multiple web pages. Listings in a SERP are ranked where the numerical position starting from the top or first or highest position is referred to simply as the position of the listing.

The subject invention determines which keywords should be mapped to web pages in a domain. Additionally the subject invention optimizes the keyword to web page mapping by limiting the number of keywords mapped to a given web page based on search engine usage data or revenue data provided by search engines. Then the subject invention generates instructions that specify changes that can be made to each web page by incorporating references to keywords mapped to the web page into various web page elements. When implemented the specified web page changes improve the web page relative to ranking factors that are taken into account by search engines when computing the rank of a web page within a SERP.

Webmaster manages website using a webmaster client computer . Webmaster may use a variety of tools applications and services to mange website . One such service is provided by a SEO server . In one embodiment webmaster interacts with SEO server using web user interfaces such as those described with reference to that run in a web browser referred to as browser . In another embodiment browser may be implemented as a client application that interacts directly with SEO server . Further SEO server may provide web user interfaces in addition to or different than those illustrated below in without departing from the spirit of the invention described herein.

SEO server obtains information from webmaster client computer SERPs from search engine and web pages from web server and analyzes this data and generates instructions which when performed by webmaster will result in increased traffic to and revenue from website . The instructions are described in web user interfaces printed reports and downloadable files provided by SEO server . Generally instructions can be provided by SEO server in a variety of formats across a range of media and can be delivered in a variety of ways to webmaster client computer .

Reference is now made to which are example web user interfaces that enable webmaster using browser running in webmaster client computer to interact with SEO server which provides the web interfaces.

A keyword window displays all the keywords included in the selected SEO campaign. For each keyword included in the selected campaign keyword window lists the keyword in the leftmost column and provides three columns of related information for the keyword Traffic Highest Listing Position and URL of Highest Position .

The traffic column gives the estimated global monthly search volume for a given keyword across all major search engines i.e. the sum of all the searches performed for the keyword across all search engines. Traffic for a keyword is made publically available by leading search engines. Traffic is typically given on a per month basis. Thus values in keyword window are typically for a month.

The Highest Listing Position column gives the average ranking or position of the highest average ranking web page within the identified domain across all search engines in a search results page when searching with the keyword. In other words the highest listing position is average position across one or more search engines of the single web page in the domain that has the highest average ranking. The calculation of the highest listing position is described in further detail with reference to below. The URL of Highest Position column gives the URL of the web page that corresponds to the highest listing position. The specific columns included in keyword window are not intended to be limiting and thus more or fewer or different columns containing different information about the keywords may be included without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

A set of display controls enable webmaster to display the next group of entries keywords to go to the first previous next and last page or to a specific page.

A set of display controls enable webmaster to display the next group of instructions to go to the first previous next and last page or to a specific page.

At step SEO server receives keywords and search engine usage data corresponding to each of the keywords to be used in the subsequent analysis. In one embodiment SEO server receives one or more files that contain keywords and search engine usage data using an interface such as update keywords interface that enables webmaster to upload keyword files or to enter keywords. The received keywords typically include keywords that webmaster has determined he she wants the identified domain to rank well for with search engines. The received keywords may include additional keywords that are of little or no significance to the domain. The keyword file s typically includes search engine usage data pertaining to the domain for a month including the keywords entered by users of the search engine and for each keyword the number of resulting visits to web pages in the identified domain the average number of pages visited on the domain the average time spent on the site and so forth. Thus a keyword file uploaded by webmaster and received by SEO server at step typically includes at a minimum a list of keywords and for each keyword search usage data including the volume of traffic to the web page resulting from use of the keyword. Additionally a keyword file may include revenue data for each keyword. Typically per keyword revenue data included in a keyword file includes some or all of the following data values for a period of time total revenue attributed to visitors to the domain as a result of searches using the keyword the number of e commerce transactions by visitors the average value of each visit the conversion rate i.e. e commerce transactions divided by the number of visits and the revenue per visit revenue for the period divided by the number of visits during the period also referred to as the revenue per keyword visit. In a preferred embodiment the subject invention computes revenue per keyword visit using other data values such as revenue and the number of visits if revenue per keyword visit isn t provided in a keyword data file. Typically one keyword file includes data from a single search engine.

In another embodiment SEO server actively obtains keywords that are relevant to the identified domain from one or more search engines using an application programming interface API provided by each of the search engines. For example the SEO server may obtain keywords relevant to the identified domain from the Google AdWords Keyword tool available from GOOGLE or use the Google Analytics Data Export API to obtain revenue data for keywords.

In another embodiment SEO server actively obtains search engine usage data revenue data and any additional SEO data required to perform SEO instruction generation algorithm . For example SEO server can obtain search engine usage data and revenue data from the GOOGLE search engine as necessary using the Google Analytics Data Export API. Table 1 below identifies the key SEO data required and from where it is obtained.

In one embodiment all keywords received are processed by the subject invention in another embodiment the number of keywords to be analyzed is limited to a specified number. In one embodiment webmaster uses a user interface control to specify whether or not to limit the number of keywords to analyze and to specify the limit value. In the case that a limit is set there are a variety of ways to select the keywords to process from the set of received keywords. For example the received keywords may be selected based on their corresponding search volumes or based on revenue per click or total revenue they generate. Thus the set of keywords processed at subsequent steps by SEO instruction generation algorithm may be a subset of the total collection of received keywords.

At step SEO server gathers search engine results data for the received keywords. In a preferred embodiment SEO server gathers a search engine results page SERP from each leading search engine for each keyword. In one embodiment a SERP is gathered for each keyword from only a single leading search engine such as the GOOGLE search engine and the results obtained for the single search engine are extrapolated across all search engines using search engine market share data described above in Table 1.

At step SEO server determines the highest listing positions for each keyword. The highest listing positions are the highest average listing positions for web pages in the domain across one or more search engines for a keyword search. Typically only the first N positions of a SERP e.g. 100 are taken into account in order to optimize the speed of the computation. Each highest listing position is weighted by the volume of searches on a given search engine and rounded to the nearest integer. As an example of how to compute a highest listing position if the identified domain is www.abc.com and the keyword is red shoes then if the web page www.abc.com page25 appears in the 10th position in the SERP returned by the GOOGLE search engine with 5000 searches and in the 5th position on the YAHOO search engine with 2500 searches then the highest listing position for the keyword to web page pair would be 8th the weighted average is 8.33 which rounds to 8 . Thus one of the highest listing positions for red shoes is eight and the web page that corresponds to this highest listing position is www.abc.com page25.

Thus if only the first N highest listing positions are considered then from 0 to N highest listing positions may be determined for the keyword although typically there are a relatively small number of highest listing positions for a particular keyword. Further in some cases no highest listing positions will be found for a keyword. For example if web pages for the domain www.abc.com appear for a search using red shoes in the 8th 15th and 25th positions then three highest listing positions are determined corresponding to the keyword red shoe . SEO server stores in a keyword database described further below with reference to all highest listing positions for each keyword including the keyword the highest listing position value and the URL of the web page that corresponds to each highest listing position for the keyword.

At step SEO server gathers the web page content for web pages in the identified domain and stores it in a web page database described in further detail below with reference to . This process is commonly referred to as scraping and is well known in the art. In one embodiment only web pages identified in the previous step step as having a corresponding highest listing position are scraped and stored in this step. In another embodiment each web page in the identified domain is scraped and stored.

At step keywords are assigned or mapped to the various web pages in the identified domain. This step is described further below with reference to .

At step the keyword to web page mapping performed in step is optimized. In one embodiment described below with reference to the optimization consists of two steps 1 limiting the number of keywords assigned to a web page to a designated maximum number e.g. four and 2 ensuring that each keyword is assigned to as many web pages as possible up to a specified maximum number e.g. two.

At step SEO server analyzes each web page in the domain and generates instructions to modify web pages in the domain. This step is described further below with reference to .

At step SEO server delivers the instructions generated in the preceding step to webmaster client computer . Instructions can be presented via a user interface such as display instructions interface . Alternatively instructions can be downloaded by webmaster to webmaster client computer from SEO server or emailed to webmaster client computer by SEO server . Generally any method of providing the set of instructions to webmaster may be supported by SEO server .

At step a determination is made as to whether there is another keyword remaining to process. If so then processing returns to step and if not then the method terminates.

At step traffic is estimated for each keyword to web page mapping determined above in step . For example using an earlier example of the keyword web page mapping red shoe to www.abc.com page25 the estimated traffic would be the number of visits to the web page www.abc.com page25 that resulted from keyword searches made by users across all search engines using the keyword red shoe . Traffic can be estimated using the following equation 

Traffic is the estimated monthly traffic across c selected leading search engine s for a keyword web page mapping 

KV i is the monthly search volume for the keyword for a leading search engine i received in step above i.e. taken from the received search volume data 

CTR TP is the click through rate of the highest listing position determined for the keyword web page mapping for which traffic is being estimated expressed as a fraction and

At step SEO server selects the next web page that has over Kmax keywords mapped to it. If it is the first iteration of the method then the first web page that has over Kmax mapped keywords is selected for processing.

At step the number of keywords mapped to the web page are limited to Kmax based on estimated traffic for the keyword web page mapping or if available based on estimated revenue for the keyword web page mapping. In one embodiment the keywords mapped to the web page are placed in descending order of estimated traffic as calculated at step using EQUATION 1 and the mappings for the first Kmax keywords i.e. those with the highest estimated traffic are retained. That is the keyword that generates the most estimated traffic is first and the keyword that generates the least estimated traffic is last. In another embodiment the Kmax keywords are placed in descending order of estimated revenue and the mappings for the first Kmax keywords i.e. those with the highest estimated revenue are retained.

Estimated revenue for a keyword web page mapping is equal to the estimated traffic for the keyword web page mapping as given by Equation 1 multiplied by the revenue per keyword visit described in Table 1. It may be appreciated that if a keyword to web page mapping is not retained at this step then the number of mappings that include the keyword is diminished by one and thus falls below Pmax the desired number of mappings for each keyword.

At step if there is another web page with over Kmax keywords mapped to it then processing returns to step and if not then processing continues at step .

Beginning at step each keyword is iteratively reviewed to see if the number of web pages in the domain that it maps to has fallen below Pmax as a result of the processing performed in steps . Thus at step SEO server selects the next keyword that is mapped to less than Pmax web pages in the domain. If it is the first iteration then the first keyword mapped to less than Pmax web pages is selected. At step the keyword is mapped to the web page corresponding to next highest listing position that was either not mapped by the processing at step of algorithm or was not retained i.e. was unmapped as a result of the processing at steps provided that the web page has less than Kmax keywords already mapped to it.

At step a determination is made as to whether there is another keyword that is mapped to less than Pmax web pages that can be further mapped. If so then processing returns to step and if not then the method ends.

At step SEO server selects the next keyword to web page mapping. For the first iteration the first keyword to web page mapping is selected. In a preferred embodiment the keyword to web page mappings are ordered by descending estimated traffic or if available by estimated revenue. Thus instructions for more valuable keyword mappings are created first and rank higher in the generated instruction list while instructions for less valuable keyword mappings are created later in the process and receive a lower ranking. Within a given keyword mapping there may be multiple instructions across multiple page elements. These instructions are ranked relative to each other based on a ranking of the page elements e.g. the URL and Title tag of a page are more valuable than the meta description and meta keywords tags and are thus ranked higher.

At step SEO server analyzes the web page in the keyword to web page mapping to determine which of a target set of web page elements also referred to simply as page elements do not refer to the mapped keyword. Table 2 below gives one target list of page elements with a instruction corresponding to each page element that is generated in the case that the page element does not include the mapped keyword. For example if the web page URL does not include the mapped keyword then at step below an instruction will be generated to add the mapped keyword to the web page URL.

At step SEO server generates an instruction to add the mapped keyword to those target page elements in the mapped web page that lack the mapped keyword. In generating an instruction the term in Table 2 above is replaced with the actual keyword. Thus for example if the mapped keyword being analyzed for is bosses day then the instruction generated for the target page element Title Tag is to Add bosses day to the Title Tag in the event that the Title Tag didn t already include the keyword bosses day . As a refinement in one embodiment an instruction may be generated to add only a portion of a keyword to a page element in some cases. For example using the above example when generating instructions for bosses day if the word day is present in the Title tag but not bosses the generated instruction would specify that bosses be added to the tag. In another embodiment multiple instructions may be generated for a given page element especially if the keyword in question is composed of several words. For example if when generating instructions for Avatar The Last Airbender DVD we found Last in a page element we would generate an instruction to add Avatar and another to add Airbender DVD . In yet another embodiment certain relatively unimportant words commonly referred to as stop words such as the a and other articles which are generally ignored or given low priority by search engines may be omitted from the instructions.

Thus the instructions generated at step effectively comprise a to do list or task list that a webmaster can implement in order to optimize or target the content of each web page in the domain to each of the keywords mapped to the web page.

At step a determination is made as to whether there is another keyword to web page mapping to be processed. If so then processing returns to step and if not then processing continues at step .

At step the keyword to web page mappings are compared to the list of keywords to determine if there is a keyword that has not been mapped to a single web page. For each such keyword a instruction to create a new web page to which the keyword can be mapped is generated.

As previously discussed the instructions listed in Table 2 have been empirically shown to improve the position of listings and thereby increase traffic to the web pages corresponding to the listings. That is implementing the instructions for a web page will generally improve the page ranking i.e. the position of a listing corresponding to the web page within a SERP. With the exception of the last instruction adding a web page as described with reference to step the instructions optimize a web page for on page keyword specific ranking factors that will typically improve the web page s page ranking by search engines i.e. improve its position in a SERP. Additional on page keyword specific instructions can be generated for example an instruction specifying the use of the keyword as the first word s of the title tag or an instruction adding the keyword in comment tags. Additionally instructions that optimize for on page non keyword ranking factors can be generated. These instructions do not involve a specific keyword but can greatly affect page rank. Such instructions include updating a web page to improve recency or freshness and adding external pointing links to a web page. Thus the list of page elements optimized for given in Table 2 is non limiting and additional page elements and other types of instructions may be added without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations in and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps that implement the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process or method. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Generally client devices include any computing devices that are capable of receiving and sending messages over a network such as network and or wireless network including personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. Client devices also include mobile devices such as mobile telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices personal digital assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like.

Client devices may include client application programs that send and receive content to from other computing devices. Examples of application programs include calendars browsers and email clients and so forth. A Web enabled client device can communicate across the Web. It may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may receive and display graphics text multimedia or the like employing a web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP or the like.

Specifically both user client computer and webmaster client computer are each embodiments of client devices . Network is an embodiment of network or wireless network or a combination of both. Further SEO server is an embodiment of SEO server search engine is an embodiment of search engine and web server is an embodiment of web server .

Network is configured to couple SEO server search engine web server and client device with other computing devices including through wireless network to client devices . Network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs private networks and the like.

Wireless network is configured to couple client devices with network . In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel from client devices to another computing device or to another network.

SEO server search engine and web server referred to collectively as servers represent network computing devices that are configured to receive messages from client devices to respond to messages from client devices and to perform a variety of functions on behalf of client devices . Search engine and web server are capable of interoperating with client devices and with SEO server using standard Web and Web services protocols such as HTTP. Search engine and or web server may be implemented for example as server computers server computer farms Web services cloud services and the like. In general however the specific design and implementation of both search engine and web server is outside the scope of the present invention.

Network computing devices that may operate as SEO server include but are not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers network appliances and the like. Further a network computing device that may operate as SEO server is not limited to a single network computing device for example a plurality of network devices may be configured to perform the functions of SEO server . One such configuration is a server farm that includes multiple server computers operating cooperatively each performing some aspect of the processing associated with SEO server . One embodiment of the software modules that perform SEO server functions is described with reference to below.

SEO server is capable of running application programs applications . Applications that may be run by SEO server include database programs customizable user interface programs security applications encryption programs VPN programs web servers applications servers customer relationship management CRM systems and so forth.

SEO server typically provides web services which include any of a variety of network services that are configured to provide content including messages over a network to another computing device. Thus web services include for example an application server a web server a messaging server a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a database server a content server or the like. Web services may provide the content including messages over the network using any of a variety of formats including but not limited to WAP HDML WML HTML XML JSON SOAP or the like. Web services may also include server side scripting languages such as PHP Python and Java servlets. Web services may also include the server side of the Ajax web development method that enables a server to asynchronously respond to Ajax requests.

SEO server includes data storage for storing program code and data. Data storage may include virtually any mechanism usable for storing and managing data including but not limited to a file a folder a document a web page or an application such as a database digital media including digital images and digital video clips and the like.

Data storage may further represent a plurality of different data stores. For example data storage may represent a customer database a web page database a instruction database and a keyword database such as those described below in conjunction with . Further data storage may also include network storage or cloud storage in which the physical storage media is accessed across a network.

In a preferred embodiment webmaster interacts with SEO server using a webmaster client application that is downloaded to web browser from an application server that runs in SEO server . In a preferred embodiment webmaster client application is a Web application that is written using standard Web programming languages such as HTML JAVASCRIPT and JAVA and is executed by browser running in webmaster client computer .

Browser is typically a standard commercially available browser such as MOZILLA FIREFOX or MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER. Alternatively it may also be a client application configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like across a network.

In one embodiment browser interacts with a client side scripting engine that executes client side scripting instructions written in a client side scripting or programming language such as JAVASCRIPT from ORACLE CORPORATION of Redwood Shores Calif. the Java open source programming language ACTIVEX from the MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. and the like. In one embodiment browser is configured to use the Ajax asynchronous JavaScript and XML or JSON web development techniques that enable Web browsers to asynchronously request incremental pieces of information from the server instead of whole pages.

In one embodiment when webmaster accesses SEO server using webmaster client application SEO server downloads web pages in HTML format to browser for viewing and interactive use. To perform some of the advanced client side interactive functions described with respect to the web pages may include client side scripting instructions. Typically such client side scripting instructions are embedded in HTML web pages and are interpreted or executed by client side scripting engine to perform functions not available through HTML commands such as advanced graphics database access and computations.

In one embodiment JavaScript is used as a client side scripting language. JavaScript is standardized by the European Computer Manufacturers Association ECMA and is supported by most commercial browsers including MOZILLA FIREFOX MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER AND APPLE SAFARI.

Webmaster client application issues HTTP requests to and receives HTTP responses from application server via browser . Application server receives the HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate SEO server software module to process the request. Application server may be a commercially available application server that includes a web server that accepts and processes HTTP requests transmits HTTP responses back along with optional data contents which may be web pages such as HTML documents and linked objects images or the like . In addition browser may use Ajax to issue requests for XML or JSON coded information that is delivered asynchronously by application server . Henceforth the term request message refers to a message sent by browser using HTTP Ajax or other client server communications method to SEO server . And a response message refers to a message sent in response typically using the same communications method by application server running in SEO server .

Application server establishes and manages webmaster sessions. Typically application server assigns each session a unique session id. A session lasts from the time webmaster logs in or accesses SEO server until the time webmaster logs out or stops interacting with SEO server for a specified period of time. In addition application server manages server applications and provides database connectivity.

Upon request by browser application server provides the HTML JavaScript and other browser executable code that make up webmaster client application .

SEO server includes a webmaster interface a keyword mapper a keyword optimizer an instruction generator and a search engine interface . SEO server further includes four databases a webmaster database a web page database a keyword database and an instruction database . It may be appreciated that each of the abovementioned databases may be implemented as one or more computer files spread across one or more physical storage mechanisms. In one embodiment each of the abovementioned databases is implemented as one or more relational databases and is accessed using the structured query language SQL .

Each of webmaster interface keyword mapper keyword optimizer instruction generator and search engine interface may include or share a commercial database management system DBMS to access and search for data and objects that reside in the database. In a preferred embodiment the DBMS is a relational DBMS RDBMS such as ORACLE from the Oracle Corporation SQL Server from the Microsoft Corporation or the like. However other database managers may also be used.

Webmaster interface interacts with webmaster client application i.e. it performs the back end server processing. Webmaster interface processes requests to upload keywords display and update keywords and to generate display and download instructions intended for webmaster . Webmaster interface responds to requests to provide user interfaces such as the exemplary interfaces given in .

Keyword mapper maps keywords stored in keyword database to web pages in an identified domain. It performs the processing associated with the method depicted in . For each keyword in keyword database keyword mapper stores a record of which web page s it is mapped to. Keyword mapper also gathers the web pages of the identified domain and stores them in web page database .

Keyword optimizer optimizes the mapping of keywords to web pages in accordance with the method depicted in . Keyword optimizer modifies the mapping keywords to web pages stored in keyword database . Keyword optimizer estimates the traffic for each keyword to web page combination as described with reference to EQUATION 1 and stores the resulting estimates in keyword database .

Instruction generator generates a list of instructions such as the one given in display instructions interface for web pages in an identified domain. Instruction generator performs the instruction generation method depicted in . Instruction generator analyzes a web page and generates zero or more instructions such as those described with reference to Table 2. Instruction generator stores each list of instructions it generates in instruction database .

Search engine interface obtains interacts with search engines to gather search engine usage data search engine results data and keyword revenue data as necessary. This includes gathering SERPs for specific keywords from leading search engines and stores the SERPs in web page database . Further search engine interface is capable of obtaining keywords and search engine usage data including traffic volumes from search engines. For example if webmaster doesn t provide keywords for an identified domain search engine interface can obtain data including a list of keywords relevant to the domain from the GOOGLE ANALYTICS web site or from another comparable service.

In an alternative embodiment search engine interface may be downloaded and run in a client computer such as user client computer . This is because scraping of search engines is a resource intensive task and distributing this process across a plurality of computer processors such as those of users of SEO system systems allows the overall system to scale further. In this embodiment the downloaded search engine interface running in user client computer requests keywords from SEO server . SEO server then provides one or more keywords to the downloaded search engine interface which in turn performs the corresponding SERP scraping and finally delivers the SERPs back to SEO server which stores them in web page database .

Webmaster database stores a record for each webmaster or customer that uses the service provided by SEO server referred to hereinafter as a customer record. A customer record includes inter alia a customer name customer contact information information specifying the domains managed by the customer and may include means of payment information. Name and contact information is typically obtained during registration. Typically a webmaster registers with SEO server the first time he she uses the service. Webmaster database also stores a record for each campaign created by a customer which includes the name of the domain to be analyzed the campaign name and information about each time the campaign is analyzed by SEO server .

Web page database stores the contents of web pages in a domain specified by webmaster for which an instruction list is to be or has been generated. Web page database may also store traffic and or revenue information about each web page as well as a specification of the applicable time period for the traffic and or revenue information. Traffic information is typically the measured or estimated number of visitors or unique visitors to the web page for a month. Analogously revenue information is typically the actual or estimated revenue in US dollars or in another currency that resulted from visits to a web page. Web page database may store multiple traffic and or revenue measurements for a web page thus enabling historical comparison of results.

Keyword database stores lists of keywords received from webmaster as well as the traffic volumes and revenue data if available for each keyword. In addition to storing keywords received from webmaster SEO server may also gather keywords from various sources and provide them on request to webmaster for inclusion such externally gathered keywords are also stored in keyword database .

Instruction database stores a list of instructions generated for a domain along with the date and time and any other execution data each time SEO instruction generation algorithm executes.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

