---

title: Enhanced interactive television
abstract: Interactive programming advertising methods and systems are provided. A selectable menu may be provided with a broadcast programming advertisement. The selectable menu may include one or more selectable functions that may allow for a user to interact with the broadcast programming advertisement. Data regarding the user's interaction or non-interaction with the interactive programming advertisement may be collected and utilized for providing a user with a more customized television viewing experience, for targeted programming advertisements, for measurement of new viewer generation data, as well as for other marketing activities directed to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232269&OS=09232269&RS=09232269
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09232269
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100122
---
By converging interactive technology and television interactive television iTV has become an increasingly popular communicative technology which allows an exchange of information between a viewer and a receiver e.g. service provider broadcaster etc. . Viewers may utilize iTV for a variety of interactive services. For example a user may alter his her television viewing experience by choosing a camera angle to watch a sporting event or by returning information to a broadcaster e.g. choose or influence plot details and or an ending of a show voting commenting etc. . In addition viewers may utilize iTV for commerce in which he she may convert a sales transaction through a television or Internet access.

Another popular interactive technology is interactive program guides iPG . Current iPG technology allows viewers to navigate through an iPG on a receiving device e.g. TV where he she may be able to see more information about a current program and or about upcoming programs. If a viewer has a content recording device such as a digital video recorder DVR he she may plan his her viewing by recording programs to a hard disc drive for later viewing. Video on Demand VoD functionality may also be provided whereby a user may buy or select a movie or television program to either play at that time or record to view at a later time.

While these systems provide a variety of interactive features current systems do not converge iTV and iPG functionalities to provide a better interactive programming advertisement system.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for providing interactive programming advertising. According to embodiments interactive programming advertising may allow a viewer to respond to a programming advertisement e.g. an advertisement for an upcoming television episode . A viewer response may be a request for more information to set a reminder for an upcoming television program to record an upcoming television program as well as other interactive responses. Usage data may also be gathered and utilized to provide a viewer with a more customized television viewing experience as well as for enhanced marketing activities.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for providing interactive programming advertising. As will be described below according to embodiments a viewer may be able to provide a response to a programming advertisement. For example consider a viewer who may be watching a television program and an advertisement for an upcoming television program is shown. The viewer may have an interest in the upcoming television program. The viewer may have never seen the television program before or alternatively may be a regular viewer. In either case a selectable menu may be provided providing the viewer with a variety of selections such as recording the upcoming program setting an alert to inform the viewer of when the program is starting requesting more information about the upcoming program as well as other selectable options.

An interactive programming advertisement IPA system may provide various benefits such as providing viewers with an easy way to view new programming without having to go through a program guide generating viewers for programming that they may have an interest in and gaining more viewers for networks.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

The following describes a simplified block diagram illustrating a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for the interactive programming advertisement methods and systems of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that although the present invention is described in the context of a CATV system embodiments herein may also apply to satellite telecasting systems as well as other systems that are suitable for providing television services to viewers. Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side backend head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. A digital video recorder DVR may be integrated into a STB or may be a discrete unit. A DVR may be described as an electronic device having a storage medium capable of storing media signals in a digital format. The storage medium is commonly a non volatile storage device such as a hard disk drive. The size capacity of the hard disk drive is a determining factor of how much data can be recorded. A STB may comprise a DVR application which may enable DVR functionality to capture record and play back content from a HDD. The input output mechanism of a STB receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art although some embodiments described in this specification are oriented to middleware installed and executed on a STB alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer profile data from services provider data services for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer and for pre populating product services order forms and customer lead generation forms. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on products and services subscribed to by a customer from her cable services provider. For example in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the customer information database may contain data to allow a determination as to whether a particular product or service is already provisioned at a customer service address or whether a work order is pending for a particular product or service provisioning at the customer service address. The customer information database may also include information that allows for a determination as to whether prerequisites for provisioning a requested product of service are met by a requesting customer. For example if a customer requests electronic mail services and high speed Internet access is a prerequisite for electronic mail services the customer information database may be queried to determine whether the required Internet access is provisioned at the requesting customer location or address. Also information collected in association with the interactive programming advertisement system and methods described herein may be stored at the customer information database.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Having described elements of a CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the present invention is a flow diagram of a method for providing an IPA system. The method starts at operation and proceeds to operation where if available data relative to a user may be retrieved. Retrieved data may include but is not limited to customer profile data preferences data set by a user feedback data user viewing behavior e.g. content watched by a user DVR behavior etc. a user s previous interaction s with an interactive feature e.g. iPG interactive advertisement etc. market segment data associated with a user e.g. demographics data geographical data etc. or any combination thereof. According to embodiments various user interactions with a STB may be captured and recorded. According to one embodiment user interaction data may be collected by a STB. Data may be retrieved such as metadata e.g. type of programming watched viewing times engagement with interactive services etc. data entered by a user e.g. Favorites preference data etc. as well as other forms of capturable data. Depending on various collected data the data may be utilized by a broadcaster or service to gain insight on how a user may utilize interactive services program guides DVRs On Demand services and advertising in an effort to develop more effective consumer marketing activities and to provide a more customized viewing experience for its customers. For example if a viewer has a usage pattern indicative that he she enjoys watching a particular type of programming for example reality television programming programming advertisement for reality television programs may be provided to the viewer. According to embodiments collected data may be specific to a user profile to a STB or a combination thereof.

The method then proceeds to operation where a programming advertisement is broadcast. According to one embodiment the programming advertisement may be broadcast based on data retrieved in operation . For example if collected user interaction data indicates that a specified user or users associated with a specified STB regularly watch a particular television program an interactive programming advertisement for the specified program may not be broadcast to the specified STB. However an interactive programming advertisement for a similar type of program that the user may have an interest in may be broadcast to the specified STB. A programming advertisement may include advertisement for a programming episode a programming series and or an individual program. According to another embodiment the programming advertisement may not be broadcast based on retrieved data but based on linear programming.

The method then proceeds to operation where a selectable menu is provided with the broadcast programming advertisement. The selectable menu may include one or more selectable functions that may allow for a user to interact with the broadcast programming advertisement. Selectable functions may include but are not limited to viewing scheduling for the advertised programming viewing more information about the advertised programming setting a reminder for the advertised programming setting a DVR recording for the advertised programming as well as various other interactive functionalities that a viewer may wish to have with a programming advertisement.

The method proceeds to decision operation where a decision is made as to whether or not a selection has been made. If a selection of an interactive function of the broadcast programming advertisement is made the method proceeds to operation where the selected function is performed or scheduled. For example if a user is watching TV and sees a programming advertisement for an upcoming episode of a particular programming series he she may decide that he she would like to find out more about the particular episode or series. The user may make a selection indicating that he she would like to view more information about the particular episode. Upon his her selection information about the episode may be provided to the user via the CATV system described above with reference to . He she may then decide that he she would like to watch the particular episode. He she may make a selection indicating that he she would like to set a reminder for when the particular episode is broadcast. When he she makes the selection a reminder may be scheduled to inform the user when the particular episode of interest is broadcast or at a specified amount of time before the episode is broadcast.

If a user selects an interactive feature of an IPA at decision operation and after the selected feature is scheduled or provided in operation or if a user does not select an interactive feature of an IPA at decision operation interaction and or non interaction data may be collected and recorded. According to embodiments based on an interaction or non interaction a user has in association with an IPA collected data may be utilized in a variety of ways to enhance a user s television viewing experience and or to provide for enhanced marketing activities. According to embodiments collected data may be utilized by a service provider and or shared with vendors associated with a service provider according to business rules. Data may be stored in a customer s profile in one or more service provider databases a plurality of remote databases locally on a STB within an IPA system or any combination thereof. Collecting and analyzing data associated with a user s interaction and or non interaction with an IPA a variety of information may be determined including but not limited to if new viewers of a program are generated if a particular demographic is more responsive to IPAs if interaction with an IPA is more likely to happen at a particular time day season etc. as well as other discoverable information. As can be appreciated this information may be strategically utilized in selling commercial time slots to network advertisers.

Referring now to an example user interface of an IPA is shown. According to embodiments an IPA may comprise a viewing area in which an advertisement is shown. The advertisement may be a still shot video text or a combination thereof. An IPA may also comprise information about the advertised programming such as a program title an episode title if applicable an airing date and time. As should be appreciated other information may be provided including but not limited to actors names producer names a genre of the programming rating information etc. An IPA may also comprise a menu with various selections that a user may choose to select including but not limited to viewing additional information about a program series or episode setting a reminder recording a program series or episode etc. As should be appreciated the illustrated user interface is an example only an IPA user interface may vary in design and layout.

Embodiments of the present invention for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions acts noted in the operations may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two operations shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the operations may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention.

While the specification includes examples the invention s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

