---

title: Method and apparatus for managing location-based transactions
abstract: An approach is provided for managing location-based transactions. A posting application determines to associate transaction information with a geographic location, the transaction information relating to one or more users. The posting application determines location information associated with respective devices of the one or more users. The posting application determines to transmit a notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based, at least in part, on the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129333&OS=09129333&RS=09129333
owner: NOKIA CORPORATION
number: 09129333
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100622
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular Internet content social network etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to customers by for example providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been development of location based services that are provided to users via devices and or via a communication network e.g. the Internet . For example social location sharing services are becoming are a popular way for people to share their previous current locations e.g. restaurants bars etc. and related experiences with their friends family coworkers etc. It is further noted that service providers and merchants are seeking new ways to use such location based data and services to for instance tailor advertisements and promotions e.g. coupons discounts etc. or otherwise improve the user experience they provide as they interact or conduct transactions with their customers. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to leveraging readily available location information to facilitate interaction between for instance merchants businesses and their customers.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining to associate transaction information with a geographic location the transaction information relating to one or more users. The method also comprises determining location information associated with respective devices of the one or more users. The method further comprises determining to transmit a notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based at least in part on the location information.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to determine to associate transaction information with a geographic location the transaction information relating to one or more users. The apparatus is also caused to determine location information associated with respective devices of the one or more users. The apparatus is further caused to determine to transmit a notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based at least in part on the location information.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause the apparatus to determine to associate transaction information with a geographic location the transaction information relating to one or more users. The apparatus is also caused to determine location information associated with respective devices of the one or more users. The apparatus is further caused to determine to transmit a notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based at least in part on the location information.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining to associate transaction information with a geographic location the transaction information relating to one or more users. The apparatus also comprises means for determining location information associated with respective devices of the one or more users. The apparatus further comprises means for determining to transmit a notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based at least in part on the location information.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing the availability of services based on location information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term social commerce refers a subset of commerce that involves using social media online media etc. to support one or more collaborative networks of online merchants as well as social interaction and user contributions reviews thereby coordinating and facilitating advertising marketing and transactions of products services or a combination thereof. Although various embodiments are described with respect to conducting transactions related to social commerce it is contemplated that approach described herein is applicable to any transaction including those related to any other type of business to business B2B business to consumer B2C consumer to consumer C2C and or consumer to business C2B commerce.

As used herein the term post refers to 1 a tangible and or intangible object and or resource left for one or more recipients at a physical location to be notified to the recipients when they are physically present within a notification radius of the physical location or 2 the action s to create and leave such an object resource. The message communicates information and or facilitates a transaction between users including a business a consumer etc. . Tangible objects e.g. physical products paper money etc. or intangible objects e.g. virtual products services etc. given to a recipient to open near a specified location or to redeem at the specified location. Additional conditions e.g. an expatriation date a redemption period limited quantity and first come first serve etc. may be imposed upon the gift. An object resource can be described in a notification alert to an intended recipient when the recipient gets near a particular location and the notification may contain a link to a website to redeem intangible object resource. Examples of physical products include foods flower candy antique etc. Examples of virtual products include media items e.g. music movies eBooks ringtones etc. . Examines of services include gym membership body massage news music video channel subscription services etc. Examples of resource include information computing capabilities storage space services credits etc.

As used herein the term location based service LBS refers to an information service accessible through the network and utilizing the ability to make use of the geographical position of a terminal. Location based services can be used in a variety of contexts such as navigation entertainment health work personal life etc. Location based services include services to identify a location of a person or object such as discovering the nearest banking cash machine or the whereabouts of a friend or employee. Location based services include location based commerce e.g. trade and repair wholesale financial legal personal services business services communications and media location based ecommerce e.g. online transactions coupons advertising etc. hotels real estate renting construction dining transport and travel travel guides mapping and navigation parcel vehicle tracking personalized weather services location based games etc.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to a message gift it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other transactions involving exchanges of a post that includes a tangible and or intangible object e.g. products currencies housing etc. and or resource e.g. information computing capabilities storage space services credits etc. .

To address these problems a system of introduces the capability to manage location based transactions. More specifically the system enables a first user to engage in location based interactions with another user in the context of social commerce. By way of example the transactions may involve sending a friend a customer etc. a post e.g. a message gift etc. . For delivering or otherwise conveying such a post for instance the user first purchases the gift from a business and or designated a message for delivery to a recipient at a particular location via the system . By way of example the system determines when an intended recipient is within proximity of a location associated with the post and then automatically notifying or reminding the recipient to pick up the post. In addition the system can also notify the business that provided or delivered the post that the post has been picked up by the recipient.

In one embodiment the system is a mobile terminal based application that enables location centric interaction between two parties. Like a yellow sticky note a user e.g. a consumer a business a non profit organization etc. leaves a virtual sticky note for someone e.g. another user in a particular place by associating the virtual note with a real physical location as requested by the user. When the user requests to leave a note e.g. a message gift etc. at the user s current location the system retrieves location data from a built in GPS receiver of the user s mobile terminal and creates a note anchored to the location e.g. by recording the GPS coordinates and associating the coordinates with the note . When one or more intended recipients are within a defined physical radius of the geographic location where the note is affixed the recipients receive a notification e.g. visual audible textual etc. of transaction information on their mobile terminals. At that point the message can be read and or the gift can be redeemed. The message notifying the recipients of the gift can include text audio image and video or a combination thereof.

The gift can be tangible or intangible and usually has monetary value. By integrating the system with Internet payment services e.g. PayPal the sender can select and pay for a gift for the recipient to redeem at a particular location. Working with merchant partners the system assembles merchant menus which list products services that the partners are offering via the system to the users. The user can select a gift item from the merchant menu pay for the item and then anchor the item for the intended recipient at a location. The location can be a merchant s establishment e.g. a movie theatre supermarket restaurant theme park etc. . In one embodiment the recipient can visit the merchant establishment to redeem the gift. By way of example the item may also be physical or electronic gift cards representing a monetary value that the recipient can spend at the merchant s establishment.

The user can browse a website of the system to register with the posting service e.g. a service that coordinates or facilitates location based transactions notification social networking and or messaging . In another embodiment the user further downloads a client positing application to the user terminal. When browsing the website or opening the client application a map is displayed representing the user s current location. Gifts and related messages posts appear in the map as markers e.g. icons tags etc. representing read and unread messages along with redeemed and unredeemed gifts. In one example a human shaped marker representing the user is also shown in the map within a circle of a predetermined notification radius. Any posts e.g. messages gifts etc. appearing inside the user s notification radius will launch a notification marker that appears on the user s mobile terminal to be selected by the user. When the client application or the browser is running in the background of the mobile terminal the map may be invisible on the screen. However a notification menu dialog box etc. can still appear on the screen of the user terminal.

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE connected to a personal computer a web service platform and a communication platform via a communication network . Each of the UE the personal computer the web service platform and the communication platform has a posting application for posting transaction information and a database for storing information. The web service platform and the communication platform may provide services such as music service mapping service video service social networking service content broadcasting service etc. The UE and the personal computer respectively have databases and for storing user information. The web service platform and the communication platform respectively have databases and for storing user and provider information.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE the personal computer the web service platform and the communication platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The providers can be any entity that offers tangible intangible products as well as services through the platform for use in location based transactions. The entity can be an individual a business organization a legal entity etc. By way of example the providers may provide tangible products such as electronics sports good foods paintings collectibles vehicles real estate plants etc. intangible products such as electronically available files of documents music movie games etc. services such as healthcare legal financial engineering consulting human resources management marketing advertisement banking event planning tour guiding travel booking tutoring career coaching hairdressing massage house cleaning web caf etc.

The provider service interacts with the providers and maintains provider profiles and products services information. The provider service provides one or more provider merchant menus that list the products services by place by provider by product by service etc. A provider categorization is usually based on the whole web site and or all products services rather than one webpage or a set of keywords. A provider may be included in a few categories. The provider service enables the providers to directly register their products services for inclusion in different categories and or reviews their submissions for fitness. The products services information can be stored locally or externally depending upon the level of details requested by the users. By way of example the provider service only stores the name and provider of a product service as well as a summary teaser of the product service locally and retrieves other relevant information on the fly as demanded by a user. In another embodiment the provider service provides deep links to the provider s website. Purchase of products services can be completed by for instance one click if the user has already registered payment information with the platform . In another embodiment the providers link websites to platform for the users to read more details of the products services and or finish the purchase there. In one sample use case a user is currently located at a restaurant bar in New York City and initiates a gift purchase of a house special drink for a friend to try when the friend visits the same restaurant bar. On the friend s next visit to the restaurant bar the system notifies the friend that he has a location based transaction e.g. the gift drink from the user that can be redeemed at the restaurant bar. If the product service to leave for the friend is not available at the place e.g. a birthday cake a happy birthday song in a foreign language a birthday song to be played by a live band etc. the user can search for the product service by provider by product or by service then pay for it and have it delivered to the place for the friend to pick up later.

In another embodiment the provider service also contains a collection of known places and optional contents. A known place is an entity that contains at least the place s ID and contents of the product service related to that place. For those places associated with one or more of the providers the provider service maps and cross references between the places e.g. a department store and the providers e.g. designer clothes cosmetics jewelry etc. .

The provider service supports a search engine within the platform for the user to search providers products and services and places in order to post a location based transaction. In addition the provider service also provides marketing and advertisement services to the providers to facilitate their use of location based transactions. By way of example the provider service promotes and matches cross marketing and or marketing alliances among the providers to initiate location based transactions for supporting marketing initiatives such as joint product development co branding joint communications co advertising joint sales measures co promotion co marketing cross media product bundling sponsoring branded entertainment product placement sales partnerships licensing etc. Therefore the providers can effectively deploy their marketing resources and activities through the system to reach the users and generate more location based transactions.

In another embodiment the provider service provides advertising for the providers that include contextual advertisements appearing on search engine results pages banner advertisements in text advertisements rich media advertisements classified advertising and e mail marketing etc. for location based transactions.

When a provider registers a product service and or a place associated with the product service with the platform the provider includes enough information e.g. a name of the product service and or the place metadata of the product service and or the place etc. for the provider service to determine a degree of match with existing products services and or places in the platform . The registration can be submitted via a browser or a message. In one embodiment the platform provides web services that provide an HTTP based application programming interface API that follows the design principles for RESTful web services. Such a browser or a JavaScript based browser extension may directly support the HTTP POST operation or directly create XML messages. The message can be an email SMS etc. The information can be included in the body of the message e.g. an XML document in the body of an HTTP POST message or in an attachment. Alternatively a special client process e.g. a platform client automatically provides some or all of the input required by the API using one or more HTTP messages.

The user service interacts with the users and maintains user profiles and user context preference information. The user context preference information can be stored locally or externally depending upon the level of details to be used by the system. The user service enables the user to directly register their information and or verifies their submissions for accuracy. By way of example the user service stores the name and identifier of a user as well as payment information locally and retrieves other relevant information on the fly as required to provide other add value services to the user. For example the user service accesses the user s social network webpage to retrieve a list of people who traveled with the user to Africa recently so as to leave them a African Dream drink at an African Restaurant as gifts paid by the user. Therefore the system provides a new channel of social networking for the users to share interests and or activities via posting location based transactions and related messages or notifications.

The post and transaction service interacts with the provider service and the user service to leave a post e.g. a message a gift etc. as requested by a user and complete one or more transactions for the post. There are different kinds of charges associated with the post. The post and transaction service may charge each provider and or each user a monthly fee a transactional fee or a combination thereof. When a transaction involves more than one provider each provider can impose separate charges for their products services. By way of example the Best Restaurant in Downtown New York charges for a drink ordered as a post for serving a birthday cake ordered as another gift for playing via its sound system the happy birthday song in the foreign language ordered as a third gift for providing the space to the live band to play the birthday song ordered as a fourth gift a bakery charges for the birthday cake and the delivery of the birthday cake an online media store charges for the happy birthday song in the foreign language and the band charges for the live performance etc.

The control logic interacts with a transaction module to receive a selection of a geographic location e.g. a remote location a current location etc. entered or selected by the user. The system enables the user to post transaction information at a location outside their current physical locations remote posting . In one embodiment an interactive menu with a list of possible current locations is presented for the user to select a location. A list of suggested locations is provided by the provider service and or the user service . The provider service considers the provider context e.g. all available stores and or provider preferences e.g. a newly opened store to provide a list of locations. The user service considers the user context e.g. close to user s office home etc. and or user preferences e.g. user s favorites to provide a list of locations.

In another embodiment the location is defaulted as the current location of the user. An approximate current location can be determined by using the current cell identifier the current internet protocol IP address global positioning system GPS assisted GPS A GPS or other means. The exact current location can be decided based upon the user context e.g. prioritizing a when it is dinner time prioritizing an ice cream shop when the weather is hot etc. and or user preferences e.g. prioritizing the most visited store at the same address when there are multiple stores at the location etc. .

In one embodiment the user uses a built in scanner of the UE to scan a bar code of a gift at home or at a store and then uploads the selection to the transaction module . In another embodiment the transaction module presents to the user a list of products services or a combination thereof offered by one or more providers in response to a user query. A gift may be in the form of money and exchanged via a third party monetary exchange service such as PayPal Premium SMS a monetary exchange service of the system etc.

The transaction module receives a selection by the user from the list one or more gifts to be redeemed at the selected location one or more media items to be attached to a message or a combination thereof. In one embodiment an interactive menu with the list of gifts available at the selected location is presented to enable the user to select the gifts. The list of gifts may be generated and sorted by the provider service based upon provider context and or provider preferences the user service based upon user context and or user preferences or a combination thereof. By way of example the list of gifts is generated by the provider service based upon provider context and or provider preferences and then sorted by the user service based upon user context and or user preferences. User inputs may be received via a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a vocal user interface component etc.

The provider context involves the availability of services content etc. The selection of a location can be affected by location restrictions e.g. non smoking house rules etc. licensing agreements among providers regulatory restrictions e.g. no under age drinking etc. In certain embodiments the system can be utilized to block particular services based on the corresponding availability information. Thus the posting application is geo aware and is able to determine products services that are available in a certain location. The location can also be used to select the language e.g. English Spanish Chinese etc. used by the posting application . In this manner the providers can advantageously present information customized according to the respective locations of the users or users UEs

The user preferences may include preferences of the user s the recipient s one or more social groups one or more communities or a combination thereof. The interactive menu may include selections of what you like what he she like what the group like most popular at the location most popular in the city etc. By way of example the user can introduce a new drink that the user just tried or the user likes. As another example the user can give a new drink to the recipient who tried the drink and recommended it to the user.

The transaction module further submits one or more payments for the selections by the user to the one or more providers without intervention by the user. In one embodiment after the selection of the gift the transaction module automatically makes a secure remote payment for goods services purchased by the user from a provider using the UE by authenticating the user with the user identification processing the payment based upon user s default payment method s for the selected location and gift. In another embodiment the interactive menu interacts with the user to authenticate the user with a stored user identification or a new identification to confirm the provider the gift the price the location the payment method e.g. selecting an existing method enter a new method etc. etc. The transaction module may directly access the user s electronic wallet that includes a wallet identifier associated with an identifier specific to the user means of payment user profile account information etc. Several users may share one electronic wallet e.g. a corporate wallet a family wallet etc. and the same user may have access to several electronic wallets.

The control logic also interacts with a posting module to generate a post of a message and or a gift based upon the selected location and the selected product service. The posting module also varies a predetermined radius of the geographic location based upon characteristics of one or more posts e.g. messages gifts characteristics of the geographic location or a combination thereof. The posting module enables the user to post a message viewable by any user of the system a public post . The posting module further enables the user a post a message targeting a defined group of registered users not all of whom are in the user s contact list a group post . The posting module further enables a non registered provider to post messages targeting a defined group of users a commercial post .

The control logic also interacts with a notification module to wirelessly transmit to the other user a notification which is a visual cue of transaction information for example that describes a post e.g. a message gift etc. and indicates the post is nearby. The notification is sent when the other user arrives within the predetermined radius of the geographic location. A notification can be saved at the UE so as to be displayed even after the user travels away from the vicinity of the location although the contents of the message cannot be read and the gift cannot be redeemed remote indexing . A message can be re read outside of the notification radius if the recipient has previously visited the location and read the message or redeemed an associated gift remote viewing .

The notification module also transmits a notification to the user indicating that the other user reads the message redeems the gift or a combination thereof. When there are additional conditions imposed upon the gift e.g. an expiration date a redemption period limited quantities first come first serve etc. the notification module transmits additional notifications to the user such as The message is expiring in two days the gift has to be redeemed in 24 hours sorry you are too late the last one of the ten ice cream cakes is gone etc. The notifications and messages may be communicated over SMS MMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication protocols.

The posting application of the UE has a control logic control the execution of a browser client application on the UE to interact with the posting application of the web service platform . The posting application may browse a web page of the system via its uniform resource identifier URI uniform resource locator URL pointer etc. The posting application then has its registering module transaction module posting module and notification module interact with the respective modules of the posting application of the web service platform one behalf of the user as described above. The web service platform may provide web pages dynamically based on the current location of the UE as well as based on the user and or UE privileges and or account information. Account information may include services that the user has paid for and or otherwise has access to e.g. the service fee is paid monthly or free .

In one embodiment the posting application of the UE and the posting application of the web service platform interact with each other according to a client server model. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service e.g. providing map information . The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

The posting application determines to receive an input for selecting at least one of the one or more products or the one or more services Step . The input may come from a consumer a business a non profit organization a governmental agent etc. The product service is available at the geographic location now or later e.g. via delivery etc. . The product service may be offered by a provider located at near or outside of the geographic location. In one embodiment the posting application automatically or on demand arranges orders delivery of the one or more posts to the geographic location.

Some services e.g. media content may be provided to the user via the mobile terminal using a variety of approaches. For example some services may be provided via a web page using an internet connection while other services may be provided using an application associated with a device at the geographic location.

The posting application determines to further present in the user interface one or more templates for the transaction information Step . In one embodiment the template is designed for a user to easily fill in information such as user profile preference messages product service orders or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the template is designed for a provider to easily fill in information such as products services advertising marketing transaction related entries or a combination thereof.

The posting application determines to receive an input for selecting at least one of the one or more templates Step . By way of example when Matti wants to leave a product comment message e.g. Great electronic device and or a gift e.g. the electronic device at a geographic location e.g. the store a supermarket etc. the posting application determines to present to Matti a list of message options and or a list of products services offered by one or more providers. The messaging list can be as long as all Matti s contact or as short as just one name e.g. Alice . The product service list can include just the new electronic device or all products in the store or all products of the store chain etc. In another embodiment the posting application determines a language based on the current geographic location of the user and presents the list in the determined language.

The posting application determines to identify one or more transactions based at least in part on the transaction information and or the one or more templates Step . In another embodiment the posting application also determines whether the one or more selected products services are legal and or unrestricted e.g. store policy etc. with respect to the geographic location prior to rendering the list or prior to submitting payments.

In yet another embodiment the posting application sets an acceptance period for each of the one or more transactions based upon characteristics of the one or more products the one or more services or a combination thereof characteristics of the geographic location or a combination thereof. By way of example for the new consumer electronic device carried in the store in a shopping mall the posting application suggests an acceptance period of three months to provide the flexibility of picking up while efficiently utilizing the store space.

The posting application creates a notification of the transaction based at least in part on the at least one of the one or more templates Step . By way of example a provider of a new consumer electronic device requests to post a sale notification of the new consumer electronic device at a store to everyone within a fifty feet radius from the store. In another embodiment the notification is targeted towards a particular group of people by determining the one or more users based upon one or more user profiles e.g. game designers computer geeks etc. preferences of one or more providers e.g. loyal customers etc. or a combination thereof.

Continuing with the example after Matti visits the store Matti requests to post at the store a notification of the new consumer electronic device to all his classmates. After Alice one of Matti s classmates visits the store Alice requests to post at the store a notification of a post i.e. the new consumer electronic device to Matti. Alice decides to uses a credit card given by her mother to pay for the post. In this case Alice is a third party of the post transaction because her mother will pay for the post.

The posting application determines to retrieve payment information associated with the one or more users e.g. Alice wherein the payment information relates to one or more monetary exchange services Step . The posting application determines to complete the one or more transactions based at least in part on the payment information the transaction information or a combination thereof Step .

The posting application determines whether the one or more users are within a predetermined radius of the geographic location Step . In one embodiment the posting application varies the predetermined radius of the geographic location based upon characteristics of the one or more products the one or more services or a combination thereof characteristics of the geographic location or a combination thereof. Before during or after receiving radius setting requests from the provider and or the user the posting application can suggest different settings for the provider or user to consider. By way of example the posting application can suggest to post advertising information e.g. a sale notification so as to trigger a notification only within a relatively limited radius e.g. 25 feet from the store to reduce potential signal interference and or overly burden users with marketing information. As another example the predetermined radius for a person to person message or transaction left in the mall may be set as one mile so that the recipient e.g. Matti can get notifications of the message while he is driving or otherwise passing near the mall.

In another embodiment when there are location based transactions or transaction information e.g. messages gifts left at two or more spots within the same locations e.g. a candy shop and a jewelry store the posting application displays two icons on the map when the user zooms in to a deeper level. The posting application can set different radiuses for different transactions. For example the predetermined radius for transactions related to a box of chocolates may be 5 feet away from the candy display shelf in the department store and the predetermined radius for transactions related to an item in the jewelry store may be 50 feet. Therefore the user will get the notification of transactions at the jewelry store at a longer distance than transactions at the candy shop.

Next the posting application determines to transmit the notification related to the one or more transactions to the respective devices based at least in part on the location information with respect to the predetermined radius Step . The notification can be in a form of emails sent from the platform via the internet to a user s device e.g. UE a user RFID tag etc. or from a provider s or user s device e.g. PC via a short range communication connection to the UE . By way of example a business first class flight ticket holder receives a notification from an airline s onsite server or his VIP membership card tag when the holder is within 50 feet away from an airline VIP lounge in an airport terminal. A hotel guest receives at the UE or a guest card tag a notification of a fax gift and voice mail left at the front desk or at the hotel room from the hotel server or a room key card when the guest is within the hotel premises.

In one embodiment the posting application determines access rights to the transaction information the notification or a combination thereof based at least in part on the location information Step . The transaction information may relate to one or more products or one or more services redeemable by the one or more users. By way of example when it is determined that the one or more devices are within the predetermined radius the posting application transmits the notification Matti I have a gift for you. to the one or more users. Matti has rights to access the description of the electronic device but not the price or the payment information. On the other hand when Alice cc. herself of the notification she has full access to the transaction information.

The posting application determines whether the one or more users have accessed the transaction information the notification or a combination thereof Step . The posting application updates respective status information for the transaction information the notification or a combination thereof based at least in part on the determination with respect to access Step . The transaction information may include the status of one or more phases of a location based transaction such as whether the payment has been made whether the notification of the transaction has been received whether the gift has been redeemed whether the redemption period has expired and or the status of any other phase of the location based transaction. The posting application determines to present the status information based at least in part on the location information Step . By way of example the posting application transmits a notification Matti picked up Alice s message. and or Matti picked up the gift provided by Alice to Alice and or the one or more providers.

In step the posting application determines to associate transaction information with a geographic location. The geographic location may be one or more the provider s stores that are shown in a map with corresponding geographic data or representations of the geographic data such as the provider names and the street addresses of the stores. In one embodiment the posting application retrieves the geographic data based upon the provider s registration information from an existing retail business database e.g. NavTeq . In another embodiment the posting application identifies all of the provider s stores on the map at once to set up the Merchant Menus for all of the stores. For a provider or merchant that has no brick and mortar location the provider or merchant can use the system by registering itself as a new virtual business associated with a place such as a park street corner etc. where for instance no other business resides. In certain embodiments once the Posti system approves a new virtual business the system can charge a fee for the registration.

In another embodiment an operator of the system may charge additional fees or otherwise restrict association between a prime location e.g. a busy downtown street corner and a particular virtual business. In some embodiments the particular location associated with a virtual business may be assigned to a merchant based on time slots. For example a merchant may rent or hire a specific location to associate with a virtual business by the hour day etc. rather than have a permanent attachment to a location. In yet other embodiments the virtual business may be configured to move periodically from location to location. For example a vendor may rent a location to associate a particular virtual business that moves along a certain route or changes location based on for instance an event e.g. a parade route a race circuit a concert a festival etc. time of day and or other context information.

In one embodiment the Merchant Menus include a series of vertical panels each displaying for instance a product service item description and price. The provider can update the Merchant Menus at any time in a real time manner using the web interface. For each product service the provide can upload the respective one or more images insert textual audio visual etc descriptions and assign one or more monetary values e.g. regular price discount price etc. thereto. In other words the Merchant Menus constitute a virtual menu for the provider assigned with the geographic location in the system .

In another embodiment the provider also selects one or more financial engines to support for processing payments for the transactions of the system . These engines may include PayPal Premium SMS credit debit gift card entities e commerce entities a monetary exchange service of the system etc. By way of example the payments may extend over the entire life cycle of a product service such as base costs shipping delivery costs system handling costs etc. The provider user interface may include one or more financial engines one or more menus associated with a third party selection of a post one or more images associated with third party selection or a combination thereof selected by the one or more providers merchants.

After the Merchant Menus are created in the system they are available for the consumers user sees when are in proximity of the provider s geographic location. In another embodiment the user can still access the Merchant Menus even after leaving the geographic location.

In one embodiment the transaction information relates to a third party e.g. a user selection of goods services or a combination thereof. When the end user creates a post e.g. a gift or other transaction for one or more friends at a particular geographic location e.g. the provider s store the transaction or transaction information of the post would appear in the provider s account view on the web portal page along with other pending and redeemed transactions.

The posting application determines the one or more recipient users or devices e.g. devices of the one or more friends of at least one of the goods and services based at least in part on the transaction information entered by the consumer Step . The posting application determines to transmit a notification related to the transaction information to the one or more recipient users and or devices based at least in part on location information associated with the one or more recipient and or devices and the geographic location Step .

The posting application determines to present a user provider interface specifying one or more merchants that provide at least a portion of the third party selection Step . In one embodiment the provider user interface includes one or more geographic representations of a physical or virtual location of the one or more providers the location information associated with the one or more recipient users and or devices a physical or virtual location of one or more of the post e.g. goods services the geographic location associated with the transaction information or a combination thereof.

In addition to managing the Merchant Menus and transactions the posting application provides a mechanism for managing marketing promotions and advertisements that appear in the system before during and or after the transactions have been created. In one embodiment a merchant menu is a short list of products services that the provider wishes to promote. In another embodiment all available products services are listed in the Merchant Menu.

In another embodiment additional promotions and or advertising are sent as posts that customers see when they arrive in the proximity of the geographic location. As a result the notification capabilities of the system are used to further entice customers to visit the geographic location.

In yet another embodiment the posting application sends messages for and or on behalf of the provider the sender and or the recipient regarding the post and or requirements for redemption thereby managing the transactions created by the customers for redemption. The redemption may involve monetary changes and or product service changes that require the sender s approval and or re post to the system . The changes may incur payment changes as well such that they require notification to the financial engines e.g. PayPal .

In yet another embodiment customers of the provider may access at least a portion of the provider user interface to select goods and or services to create location based transactions e.g. gifts for one or more other users. In this way the customer can for instance purchase a gift for another user that is tied to a particular location e.g. a restaurant . Then when the other user approaches the particular location e.g. passes by the restaurant the posting application executing on the other user s device can receive notification of the availability of the location based transaction at the location.

If the user selects to leave another user a message attached with media contents or posts of commercial values the posting application determines to present e.g. via a web browser to the user a list of products e.g. a gym t shirt services e.g. one on one body building coaching or a combination thereof offered by one or more providers Step . The posting application determines to receive a selection of a geographic location e.g. the gym Alice s house etc. by the user Step . By way of example instead of the gym Matti may select to post a gift e.g. a gym t shirt at Alice s house and has it delivered to her house. In this case when Alice gets close to her house she will receive a notification of the gift.

The posting application determines to receive a selection by the user from the list one or more gifts e.g. protein smoothie one or more media items e.g. a yoga video to be attached to a message or a combination thereof Step . After receiving the selections the posting application determines to submit one or more payments to the one or more providers to pay for the selections Step . The transaction information e.g. involving a post for the other user e.g. Alice is left by the user e.g. Matti when the user is within or outside of the predetermined radius of the geographic location e.g. the gym . In other words Matti can leave the transaction information to Alice when Matti is at the geographic location e.g. the gym or at a different location e.g. a home office etc after he left the gym.

The posting application determines to transmit from the user to the posting service a request for sending a notification of the post involving a message gift to another user when the other user arriving within a predetermined radius of a geographic location Step . After the message is read and or the gift is redeemed the posting application determines to receive a message for the user e.g. Matti from the other user e.g. Alice the message containing information that the message has been read by the user Thank for the information about the gym. information that the one or more gifts has been redeemed by the user Thank you for the smoothies. feedback of the other user regarding at least one of the message Your comments were encouraging. and the gift The smoothes was delicious or a combination thereof Step .

In addition the posting application supports a color intensifying display mode for a selected post e.g. a message gift such that the color of its icon changes as the user gets closer and closer to the location of the selected post. In another embodiment the use selects a few posts in the color intensifying display mode. Their colors can be intensified concurrently or sequentially. If the user wants to track them all at once the mode is applied to them concurrently. If the user has a priority order for the posts their color modes are triggered sequentially such as by their proximity to the user s currently location by their monetary values etc.

In another embodiment the posting application of a recipient also can vary a predetermined radius of the geographic location based upon characteristics of one or more posts characteristics of the geographic location or a combination thereof. The radius settings were first set according to defaults or manually set by the sender or the provider and then changed by the recipient. In one embodiment the recipient sets the predetermined radius for all messages left in the department store as a mile away from the department store so the user can get notification while the user is in the neighborhood. By way of example the recipient sets all messages related to a delivery service e.g. a FedEx server to be notified within a five mile radius of the user s house so that when the user drives into the radius the user stops by to pick up an item prior to arriving home. The posting application enables the user to save time by receiving transaction information and sending reply messages in a simple manner.

The markers of message notifications and the markers of the gift notifications are shown with different colors according to their status. By way of example a filled red circle with its center blank represents a message posted to the user unread i.e. available to be read in the My Inbox of the user. A filled red circle represents a message posted to the user unread i.e. blocked post the user can read in my Inbox. A grey circle represents a message posted to the user read. The user can tap on a post icon to open up a dialog box. After closing the dialog box if the post is unblocked to be read it becomes already read on the map . An orange circle represents a message posted by the user. In another embodiment the read or unread messages posted by the user may have different representations. A red gift box represents a gift sent to the user not collected yet a grey gift box represents a gift sent to the user already collected and an orange gift box represents a gift sent by the user .

A human shaped avatar represents the user and showing the user s current location on the map . A cycle is also shown on the map indicating a limited notification radius as defined by the system and or the user that the user can receive a notification of transaction information and or to read therein posts therein. An Inbox Notifications icon shows how many new messages and gifts e.g. in My Inbox regardless of the user s notification radius or map zoom level.

When the system is launched at the UE an on board global positioning system GPS receiver automatically searches for the user current location. It may take some seconds to process the GPS signal. When the posting application is launched the map shows a previous user location while searching for the current user location. A black and white avatar is shown to inform the user that the previous location rather than the current location is displayed while no reading radius is shown. While the search is running the user can browse the map and explore the posting application . If the user taps on a my location icon the map is led back to the previous location when the current location is not yet found.

When the GPS signal is found the current location of the user and the notification radius are defined. A color avatar and a notification radius are shown on the screen. If the user moves out of the current location the display can be led back to the current location by tapping on the My location icon.

If the GPS signal is not available e.g. indoors or enclosed areas a triangulation signal can be used instead although the triangulation signal is not as accurate as the GPS signal. The same color avatar and notification radius are shown on the screen as when a GPS signal is used. If the user taps on the my location icon the system tries to find the GPS coordinates again. Meanwhile the user can browse the map and explore the posting application . Even if the user doesn t tap on the my location icon a new search will run within a few minutes or when the user tries to leave transaction information e.g. involving a post .

When neither a GPS signal nor a triangulation signal is found the system shows an alert dialog box Posti can t find your location . The same black and white avatar is shown to inform the user that the previous location rather than the current location is displayed as in the situation that the system is searching for the GPS signal. The notification radius is not shown either. The system offers the user options of cancel or retry . When the user selects cancel the system closes the alert dialog box and shows in the map the last detected location. If the user taps on the my location icon the system tries to find the GPS coordinates again. Meanwhile the user can browse the map and explore the posting application

A Leave a message icon and a Leave a gift icon are available for user to select to trigger the relevant functions. The user can tap on the Leave a message icon to leave a message at the selected location and or tap on the Leave a gift icon to leave a gift at the selected location. In another embodiment the user can press a point on the map for a predetermined time period e.g. 15 seconds to open up a dialog box over the map to post transaction information e.g. involving a post inside or outside of the notification radius.

A default zoom tab of the map can be set by the system and or the user to show the whole notification radius within the screen. In another embodiment the default zoom tab is varied according to the nature of the user s point of interest. The notification radius may be set as 15 miles when the user just gets back to town from a trip so the user can see all the messages and gifts posted in the town. The notification radius may be set as 5 miles when the user just gets off work so the user can see all the messages and gifts posted on the way home. The notification radius may be set as 50 feet when the user is shopping in a mall so the user can see all the messages and gifts posted in different stores in the mall. The notification radius may be set as 5 feet when the user is shopping in a book store so the user can see all the messages and gifts posted on different shelves in the bookstore.

A Zoom control bar floats over the map . Not all of the messages and gifts shown in the current zoom level of the map can be read or redeemed. Some of them were notified to the user and saved in My Inbox when the user was in the notification radius lat time but the user did not read the message or redeem the gift. In other words any post once found by the system within the notification radius goes into the Inbox and stays there even those the user ignores i.e. notified previously but not read . Therefore there are posts not within the current notification radius are available to read in the Inbox. For the other ones unread if the user taps on them a specific message will be shown but the message of the post won t be opened. A gift can only be collected when the user is at the location. In this case the user can read the notification outside of the notification radius but cannot read a message outside of the notification radius.

The user can freely browse the map by selecting and moving a Drag the map icon. If the user browses the map and navigates the view outside of the current location and or the notification radius the user can selects a My location icon to lead the avatar back to the current location and or in the notification radius .

The user can select the icon posti to call out an Options Menu as shown in . shows on a user interface an Options Menu includes taps of Inbox Contacts Settings Sign out Exit and Give us your feedback . The Inbox tap is shown sis by side with a message icon and a gift icon with their respective numbers e.g. and . In other words the user has three posts and one gift available in the Inbox which lists all users posts e.g. messages gifts read or unread redeemed or not redeemed etc. .

Selecting the Contact tab leads to a contact screen. Some or all the listed users are registered with the system . By way of example a list of contacts is shown with their photos names and identification numbers of sent read messages and or sent redeemed gifts with respect to the user. The screen also provides a New Contact icon for marking new contacts a Favorites icon for marking favorite contacts a Sort icon for sorting contacts a Search icon for searching contacts etc.

Selecting the Settings tab leads to a Settings screen for the user to set all different kinds of settings such as settings regarding the notification radius e.g. defaults by point of interest etc. display sound settings of the messages gifts screens icons etc. security settings for reading messages redeeming gifts etc. By way of example the user can set a secret question for the recipient to answer before reading a message or redeeming a gift in order to authenticate the recipient in case that the UE is lost.

Selecting the Sign out taps leads the user to a log out screen to sign out. The Exit tab closes the application after user selection. In another embodiment a dialog box pops up to ask the user if the user wants to keep the system running in background. If selected the posting application stays opened but runs minimum operations in the background. For example the posting application will inform the user if encounters new posts e.g. messages gifts without requiring much resources of the UE . The system then can be accessed by selecting an alt tab or closing the browser. The Give us your feedback tap points to a link to an online user survey form.

The user can tap on any icon on the screen to open a new dialog box concurrently with or in place of an existing dialog box depending upon the settings. When the user selects a post icon on the map a post reading dialog box is called out as shown in . shows on a user interface the post reading dialog box . By way of example a sender ID e.g. a name photo etc. a sender s address venue e.g. 54 Massachusetts Rd. media attachments e.g. 3 songs and 2 photos a message and message recipient information are displayed in the post reading dialog box .

The media files attached to the message can be opened by selecting the music and photo icons. In one embodiment the message has a length limitation e.g. 140 characters maximum . In another embodiment the post reading dialog box displays only a portion of the message that is within the length limitation.

The message recipient information may include time and a recipient number e.g. sent to me and five others 22 minutes ago . The setting of the message recipient information may be set by the system and or the user. For example message time information rules are set to show per minute within the first hour 1 minute ago until 59 minutes ago per hour within the first day 1 hour ago until 23 hours ago as yesterday after the first day and as moth day year e.g. Jun. 13 2010 after the first two days. Message recipient information rules are set to show the number of recipients other than me e.g. to me and five others to me and another one etc .

There is also a Close the Post icon at the top right corner of the post reading dialog box . The post can be closed by selecting the icon or tapping out of the post reading dialog box .

The user interface also shows a previous icon and a next icon to enable the users to browse the received items by sender by age by proximity or by other condition or priority set by the system and or the user with respect to the currently read post. By way of example the order of the posts is conditioned upon their proximity to the current location of the user or the location of the currently read post. In other words the next post is the closest unopened post to the current user location or to the currently read post. When the user opens a first post the previous icon is unavailable and when the user opens a second post the previous icon becomes available. When the user opens the last post on the map the next icon becomes unavailable. The next and previous icons only appear when there are at least two posts e.g. messages gifts on the map.

When the user cannot or does not want to read a post at its first arrival at the UE the post is recorded in the system and shown on the map in a special dialog box as shown in when the user subsequently visits the neighborhood. shows a post reminder dialog box with a header Someone sent you a posti . Different messages can be shown in the post reminder dialog box according to the posting time. For example if the posting time is within one week the message of Curious Come closer and read me is shown in the dialog box . If the posting time is one week old or older the message of I m getting old and feeling so lonely here. Come closer and read me is shown in the dialog box .

Instead of a message the user can select a gift box icon on the map and triggers a dialog box as shown in . shows a gift notification dialog box showing a header Name left this gift for you . By way of example a sender ID e.g. a name photo etc. a sender s address venue e.g. Mangos a gift image e.g. a photo of the gift drink Nuoc mia a message and gift sender information are displayed in the gift notification dialog box .

In one embodiment the message has a length limitation e.g. 140 characters maximum . In another embodiment the gift notification dialog box displays only a portion of the message that is within the length limitation. The gift sender information may include a time the gift e.g. Mar. 12 2010 . The setting of the gift sender information may be set by the system and or the user. The sender may eliminate the message sender information or even the sender ID to remain anonymous.

The dialog box can be closed by selecting a Close the Post icon or tapping out of the gift notification dialog box . The dialog box also shows a Say thank you icon and a get it icon to enable the user to send a Thank you massage to the sender and to redeem the gift at Mangos when the user gets there.

Instead of sending a Thank you message the user can leave a gift to the sender at Mangos. A user interface with a tab bar having a gift tab is shown in . A posting dialog box is also shown in . In one embodiment the posting dialog box contains options of Message Product Service etc. for the user to select. When the user touches one option with a finger a curser etc the option becomes highlighted and the relevant content or description of the option is shown on the screen.

By way of example when the option of Message is selected a message dialog box pops up in the user interface of with sub options of Basic Attach Teaser Attach Product Attach Service etc. When the sup option of Basic is selected the sub option becomes highlighted and the relevant content or description of the option is shown on the screen. The description explains that the basic massage sub option triggers a basic dialog box for the user to enter comments about the location the products services available there etc. for completing or otherwise accessing a location based transaction.

When the user selects the option of Attach Teaser the system automatically retrieves the relevant description about the location into a message for a user to post at the location. When the user selects the option of Attach Product a product location dialog box pops up in a user interface of . The product location dialog box contains options of Available Here Other Location etc. for the user to select. When the option of Available Here is selected a product category dialog box pops up with options of Food Drink Party Room Souvenirs etc. to describe the location based transaction.

When the sup option of Souvenirs is selected the sub option becomes highlighted and the relevant content or description of the option is shown on the screen. The description explains that there are t shirts with different designs available for sale. Meanwhile a new screen is triggered to show the different t shirt designs in a user interface of . The screen also shows a banner of Select a Design 12 per T shirt. When the user selects the design of a Concert the icon is highlighted.

A leave a gift dialog box shown in with a header Leave a gift at can be triggered by selecting the Leave a gift icon shown in . By way of example the system is set to use the current location of the user as the gift leaving location. As a result Mangos is automatically shown in the location bar . Alternatively the user can type in another location e.g. the sender s office address to send a gift.

In this case the sender e.g. Gary Leahey is set as the gift recipient. Alternatively the user can type the sender s name in a recipient entry or select the Contacts icon to call out a Contacts screen to select a contact therefrom. The user can also select a gift tab for attaching the gift e.g. the T shirt with the concert design to a message enter the message and select a Post icon to leave the gift with a message. If the user wants to leave another gift to the same person or leave a gift to another person at Mangos the user just selects a Next icon to proceed to leaving the next gift.

All the user interface elements e.g. menu items markers icons entries headers etc. presented on the user interface may be a single div or a JavaScript object. As noted above the menu items may be utilized to create an interactive menu and the interactive menu can include the posting service of the system and other services. The other services may be associated with the posting service or other web pages e.g. an online media store ecommerce websites social network merchant menus PayPal etc. .

By way of example the sender can browse the merchant s menu of Mangos to select the drink Nuoc mia to leave to the user as a gift and pay for the gift within the system . The other services e.g. credit card company PayPal etc. can be presented in another section of the user interface and or another screen. This other section can be different or distinct from the section representing the posting service. As the user selects menu items from the interactive menu the user is presented with menus leading to other services e.g. chocolate website the Ovi store EBay etc. that are available to the user based at least in part on the current location of the user. The links to the other services may be presented in and or mush up with the same user interface as the posting service. In another embodiment the presentation of the other services takes place in a separate section or screen of the websites of the other services merchants websites PayPal s website etc. .

The option menu and interactive menus reflect the posting services and the other services available in the respective areas and locations. For example a submenu of user interface is associated with the other services e.g. maps navigation and local search services or content . The submenu items may be represented as graphical icons text menu items or both. It is contemplated that the services may be depicted or represented using any type of user interface element. Further the other services selected can be presented in a separate section of the web browser in the language associated with the location. In one embodiment the user interface of the system automatically display in the language spoken at the user s current location. The option menu and interactive menus are also in that language.

By analogy the user can leave a message to the sender at Mangos or another location. A leave a leaving post dialog box is shown in with a header Leave a post at . The leaving post dialog box can be triggered by selecting the Leave a post icon shown in . A Search icon is provided for the user to retrieve another location than the current location as a location for posting the message. The system can search in a local or external database for the location. The local database may be the user s calendar contacts email box that contain location information. The external database may be a social network website a navigation website etc that contain location information. By way of example the user can retrieve sender s birthday party address from an email or from an electronic invitation and set that address to leave a message. As a result Maiden St. 45 is shown after the header . Alternatively the user can type in the sender s birthday party address to leave a message.

As another example after the message the user can send another message at the birthday party address to one or more other contacts in a recipient entry by selecting contact names e.g. Jonathan David Mark Sven . . . from a contact screen called through a Contacts icon . The user can enter a message attached media files to the message e.g. two songs two photos and no video and select a Post icon to leave the messages. The leaving post dialog box further displays an Attachment icon for the user to trigger the media file attaching function as well as an entry showing a total size of the attached files e.g. 2.6 MB .

Similarly the user can select and pay for a gift from one or more merchant s menus. The merchant operates at the current location is set as the default merchant to bright out the merchant menu. By way of example the food drank menu of Mangos is automatically brought up when the user selects the Leave a gift icon. In another embodiment the user can search and select from another merchant s menu and then requests the gift to be delivered to the current location that the recipient will retrieve the gift.

For example the recipient is going to have a birthday party at a skating rink and the user orders a birthday cake from a bakery for the recipient to redeem at the skating rink. The skating ring and the bakery are both partner merchants of the system such that they can get paid for they service automatically. The bakery will be paid for the cake as well as the delivery of the cake and the skating rink will be paid for receiving and keeping the cake for the recipient.

The merchants can set default rules for delivery and save keeping the gifts. By way of example a message expiration date and a gift redemption period are set based upon on the characteristics of product services the location operation logistics etc. After the message expiration date and the gift redemption period the message or gift is removed from the system and cannot be read or redeemed by the intended recipient. The redemption period for a birthday cake may be set as within 4 hours since it becomes available at the skating rink.

In addition to C2C transactions e.g. messages gifts and or transaction information the system also facilitates social and commercial interactions among the providers B2B and or among the providers and the users B2C and C2B . For example a company posts at its own stores a location based transaction e.g. involving a message gift for its loyal customers e.g. consumers businesses etc. . As another example a consumer posts a location based message regarding the plumbing problem at his her house for a plumber to read onsite. As another example a patent law firm posts a location based message with delivery instructions at the door for a carrier to deliver patent applications to the Patent Office.

With the above approaches the location based social commerce platform can provide marketing advertising transaction services to the provider to increase location based transactions and the provider in turn can provide location centric communication and location based transactions services to users. A user may be a consumer a business a non profit organization etc. The above described embodiments provide means for a provider to post transaction information e.g. involving a post for a user e.g. a customer business non profit organization etc. at a specific geographic location and to complete underlying financial transaction in a simple manner using a location aware intermediary processing agent. The above described embodiments enable a user to select and post transaction information for one or more recipients to retrieve when they are in the vicinity of a certain location. The user can post the transaction information from anywhere remotely or at the pick up location and the recipients will get the transaction information only if they are near or at the location. The above approaches fundamentally enhance social commence and significantly accelerate social commence. The above approaches minimize the user of network resources as well as conserve energy consumption for the platform the providers and the users.

The processes described herein for managing location based transactions may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing services for managing location based transactions may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to manage location based transactions. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for managing location based transactions. Dynamic memory enables information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM enables a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for managing location based transactions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection from the UE to the web service platform for managing location based transactions.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to manage location based transactions. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of managing location based transactions. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to manage location based transactions. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number platform text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

