---

title: End point context and trust level determination
abstract: A server device is configured to receive, from a proxy server, a request by a user device to access a network; obtain information associated with the user device that includes an identifier associated with the user device and context information associated with the user device; determine a level of trust associated with the user device based on the identifier and the context information, where the level of trust is a measure of security risk associated with the user device; generate an access token based on the level of trust, where the access token identifies a level at which the user device is authorized to access the network; and send, to the user device via the proxy server, the access token that enables the proxy server to authorize the user device to access the network at the level identified by the access token.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839397&OS=08839397&RS=08839397
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08839397
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 861 981 filed Aug. 24 2010 the entire contents of the application being incorporated herein by reference.

Today s user devices are capable of using applications that provide an ever increasing variety of services that continue to improve the user s experience. Many of today s applications can be downloaded to a user device and can be used to communicate with other applications e.g. service provider applications third party applications etc. hosted by service provider networks and or other networks e.g. the Internet in order to receive information and or services.

Sometimes it is difficult for a service provider network to verify the source and or trustworthiness of a user device a user of the user device a network and or an application that is seeking to gain access to and or information associated with the service provider network. By not knowing and or verifying the source and or trustworthiness of the user device the user the network and or the application seeking to access the service provider network the service provider network may become vulnerable to an unknown and or nefarious user device user network and or application. The unknown and or nefarious user device user network and or application may introduce a virus harmful data and or malicious software into the service provider network which may cause network operations to be disrupted. The unknown and or nefarious user device user network and or application may also gain unauthorized access to information associated with the service provider network and or utilize network resources to which the unknown and or nefarious user device user network and or application are not entitled.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the embodiments.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable a trust level application hereinafter referred to as trust application to obtain context information associated with a user device and to use the context information and or information associated with the user device to identify a level of trust to be assigned to the user device. The trust application may use the identified level of trust to determine whether and or at what level the user device is to be granted access to a network. The trust application may also or alternatively use the identified level of trust to determine whether a potential security event associated with the network has occurred that may cause the trust application to perform a containment operation in order to avoid and or minimize effects caused by the security event. The trust application may communicate with a proxy server that enables the identified level of trust to be determined and or maintained with the user device. The trust application may communicate with the proxy server in the event that the potential security event has been detected in order to prevent the security event from compromising the security and or data associated with the network.

Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation or communication device that is capable of communicating via service provider network and or network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a landline telephone a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal computer a set top box STB a television a camera a personal gaming system a sensor or another type of computation or communication device. The description to follow will generally refer to user device as a wireless mobile device. The description is not limited however to a wireless mobile device and may equally apply to other types of user devices.

User device may host a device application that may be used to obtain services from a service provider application e.g. hosted by application server and or a third party application e.g. hosted by application server N . For example user device may send a request to receive the services to application server . The request may include information associated with user device such as a device identifier e.g. a mobile directory number MDN a landline directory number LDN a subscriber identity module SIM universal resource identifier URI an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a CODEC etc. . Additionally or alternatively the information associated with user device may include an address associated with user device e.g. a media access control MAC address an Internet protocol IP address a uniform resource locator URL etc. information associated with a user of user device e.g. a username password personal identification number PIN biometric information etc. and or information associated with the device application e.g. an application identifier a license file an indication of whether the application is certified by an application certifying entity such as Verisign etc. .

SCP may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. SCP may communicate with user device in order to obtain information associated with user device . SCP may send the information associated with user device to SCGW that permits the user device to be authenticated. SCP may temporarily store information associated with a communication session with user device that enables the communication session with user device to be maintained for a period of time and or renewed within a period of time e.g. less than a threshold after the session expires. SCP server may obtain context information associated with user device . SCP server may send the context information to SCGW that permits a level of trust associated with user device to be determined. The context information may include information associated with a type of user device geographic location information and or network access information e.g. an access point name APN a packet data network PDN identifier a gateway device identifier etc. .

SCP may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that enable SCP to communicate with SCGW . The one or more APIs may enable SCP to act as an island of containment that provides a logical barrier between user device and SCGW in the event that a security event associated with user device is detected. For example if user device transmits a virus to SCP SCP may detect the virus and may determine that a potential security event has occurred. SCP may use one or more of the APIs to perform a containment operation that prevents the virus from being transmitted to SCGW and or service provider network . SCP may notify via one of the APIs SCGW that a security event has been detected.

SCP may receive information and or services from SCGW as a result of a user device being successfully authenticated and may transmit the information and or services to user device . SCP may cause a communication session not to be initiated with user device based on a notification received from SCGW indicating that user device was not authenticated. SCP may cause a communication session to be terminated and or a level of access to a network to be downgraded based on a notification that a level of trust associated with user device has decreased to a level that is less than a threshold. SCP may cause a communication session to be extended and or a level of access to the network to be upgraded based on a notification that the level of trust associated with user device has increased to a level that is greater than the threshold.

Application server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information and or services in a manner similar to that described herein. In one example implementation application server e.g. application server N may be associated with a network e.g. network that is not associated with SCGW . For example application server may in response to a request provide one or more services to user device and or SCP . In one example application server may communicate with service provider network e.g. via SCGW to obtain information associated with a level of trust associated with user device and may determine whether to provide the one or more services to user device based on the information associated with the level of trust. In another example application server may communicate with service provider network to obtain information associated with another user device e.g. address book information calendar information geographic location information presence information etc. that is associated with service provider network and may use the information associated with the other user device to provide the one or more services.

In another example implementation application server e.g. application server may be associated with a network e.g. service provider network that is associated with SCGW . For example application server may communicate with another user device associated with service provider network to obtain information from and or send information to the other user device . Application server may for example and in response to a request provide one or more services to user device and or SCP based on communications with the other user device .

SCGW may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information and or services in a manner similar to that described herein. In an example implementation SCGW may be an access point via which devices associated with network communicate with and or receive services from service provider network . In another example implementation SCGW may store software and or logic associated with a trust application that permits SCGW to obtain context information associated with user device . SCGW may obtain the context information from SCP e.g. based on communications with user device from an identity management database stored in a memory associated with SCGW from administration server and or by interrogating user device . When interrogating user device for example the trust application may send a query to user device to obtain the context information such as geographic location information network access information e.g. an APN a PDN a gateway identifier port information information associated with a user of user device information associated with user device capabilities and or configuration etc. .

The trust application may use the context information to identify a level of trust associated with user device . The trust application may for example assign a trust value to the context information based on a quantity of context information associated with user device that was obtained and or based on a content associated with the context information. For example the trust application may assign a trust value that corresponds to a high level of trust when a quantity of context information is greater than a threshold. In another example the trust application may assign a trust value that corresponds to a high level of trust when a quantity of adverse information associated with user device is less than another threshold. Adverse information may include information that indicates that user device may not be trustworthy e.g. when an account associated with user device has been suspended user information cannot be verified etc. .

Based on a level of trust identified for user device the trust application may grant a level of access to service provider network and or information associated with another user device that corresponds to the identified level of trust. For example the trust application may generate a token that is to be used by user device to access service provider network and or the information associated with the other user device . The token may identify a level of access a time period for which the access is granted terms of renewing the token e.g. within a renewal period of time after the time period expires etc. etc. Trust application may cause SCGW to send the token to user device via SCP to be used to access service provider network and or the information associated with the other user device .

The trust application may detect a potential security event associated with user device when a level of trust is below a minimum threshold. Based on the detection of the potential security event the trust application may deny access to user device . Additionally or alternatively the trust application may perform a containment operation that establishes a logical barrier to information flow associated with user device to and or from service provider network . The trust application may perform the containment operation by sending a containment notification to SCP indicating that the potential security event associated with user device has been detected.

For example the containment notification may include an instruction to deny access to user device terminate a communication session associated with user device invalidate a token issued to user device etc. In another example the containment notification may instruct SCP server to purge from a memory associated with SCP server information associated with user device . In yet another example the containment notification may instruct SCP server to purge a portion or all of the information stored in the memory to ensure that any nefarious information e.g. malicious software viruses unauthorized and or unknown applications spyware and or other forms of malware that may exist within the memory are erased discarded nullified rendered inoperable and or or destroyed. The trust application may retrieve from a memory associated with SCGW an image of contents e.g. data applications etc. stored on SCP that corresponds to a baseline state and or a state that existed prior to a point in time that communications with user device were initiated.

Administration server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. In an example implementation administration server may act as a home subscriber server HSS device and or authorization authentication and accounting AAA server. In another example administration server may be an identity management server. When performing functions associated with the HSS device administration server may retrieve from a memory associated with administration server context information associated with user device such as subscriber account information e.g. whether the account is in good standing is suspended is delinquent etc. geographic location information etc. Administration server may send the context information to SCGW to permit a level of trust associated with user device to be determined.

When performing functions associated with the AAA server administration server may perform an authentication and or authorization operation on user device . For example administration server may receive a request from SCGW to perform the authentication and or authorization operation on user device . Administration server may perform the authorization and or authentication operation based on information associated with user device received in the request the context information retrieved from the memory and or other information obtained from another server device. In another example administration server may retrieve policy information associated with service provider network and or permission information associated with a user of another user device . Administration server may for example retrieve policy information associated with service provider network from a memory e.g. a memory associated with administration server to determine whether the policy information permits user device to access service provider network . Additionally or alternatively administration server may determine whether and or under what conditions a user of another user device from which information is to be obtained authorizes the release of information to user device .

Service provider network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks via which application registration verification and or authorization services are provided. For example service provider network may include a cellular network the Public Land Mobile Network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network e.g. a long term evolution LTE network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively service provider network may include a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an ad hoc network an intranet a fiber optic based network e.g. a fiber optic service FiOS network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network the PLMN a 2G network a 3G network a 4G network e.g. an LTE network a 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a WAN a MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network e.g. a FiOS network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Device may include a bus a processor a memory an input component an output component and a communication interface . Although shows example components of device in other implementations device may contain fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch a microphone a camera a fingerprint reader etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs a haptics based device etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as service provider network and or network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to end point context and or trust level determinations. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Administrative API may process information that is to be used to determine a context associated with user device . For example administrative API may process information obtained from a variety of sources e.g. user device SCP application server administrative server etc. and or associated with different protocols and or formats in order to convert the information into a format and or protocol that can be received and or processed by the trust application. The information may include information associated with user device e.g. a device identifier a device address etc. information associated with a user of user device e.g. a username password PIN biometrics etc. information associated with an application hosted by user device e.g. an application identifier a license file an application signature an application certification etc. context information associated with user device e.g. geographic location information device capabilities a carrier identifier account information associated with user device etc. . Additionally or alternatively administrative API may create a logical barrier that prevents the information from flowing from user device to service provider network via SCGW without being processed via administrative API . In this example administrative API may not permit information associated with user device information associated with the user information associated with the application and or context information associated with user device to be sent to SCGW without being processed via administrative API . Not permitting the information to flow to SCGW without being processed by administrative API may create a barrier to nefarious information from being inserted into service provider network .

Service API may enable a service to be provided to SCP in a manner that can be received and or processed by user device e.g. when SCP forwards information and or data associated with the service to user device . For example service API may convert the information and or data into a format and or protocol that can be received and or processed by user device based on context information associated with a type and or configuration of user device . Additionally or alternatively service API may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to administrative API create a logical barrier that prevents information e.g. including nefarious information and or data e.g. associated with the service from flowing from user device to service provider network via SCGW without being processed by service API .

Event manager may detect nefarious information contained in information and or data being received from and or sent to user device . Event manager may based on the detection of the nefarious information determine that a potential security event exists and may perform a quarantine operation to isolate purge and or render harmless the nefarious information. Event manager may as a result of the security event perform a containment operation that may cause all or a portion of information stored in a memory associated with SCP to be flushed e.g. purged erased discarded etc. overwritten and or rendered harmless. The containment operation may avoid and or mitigate a risk associated with the nefarious information adversely affecting service provider network and or data therein.

Security configuration manager may restore a configuration associated with SCP server that enables SCP server to perform operations as intended prior to the security event. In one example security configuration manager may store an image and or copy of the contents of SCP server and may use the image and or copy to restore data lost due to the nefarious information and or the containment operation. In another example security configuration manager may use the image and or copy to reinstall an operating system applications information and or data to a pre security event state. In yet another example security configuration manager may reestablish one or more virtual environments by recreating configuring and or starting up one or more virtual machines associated with SCP server . In still another example security configuration manager may communicate with another server device e.g. administrative server to obtain a copy and or image of the contents of SCP server and or SCGW in order to perform the restore and or reinstall operation.

Device info field may store information associated with a particular user device with which a communication session is to be established. For example SCGW may receive information associated with the particular user device and the trust application may store the information associated with the particular user device e.g. a device identifier an address etc. in device info field . Application ID field may store information associated with an application hosted by the particular user device . The information associated with the application may include an application identifier an application file an application signature a vendor identifier an application certificate etc. User info field may store information associated with a user of user device . The information associated with the user may include a username password PIN biometrics information etc.

Carrier ID field may store information associated with a carrier and or service provider e.g. Verizon Sprint etc. with which the user of the particular user device has an account that enables the particular user device to communicate with network and or service provider network . Device source ID field may store information associated with a source from which the information that corresponds to the particular user device was assigned. For example the particular user device may have an MDN that was issued by a particular carrier associated with service provider network . In another example the particular user device may have an MDN that was issued by another carrier from a block of wholesale MDNs sold to the other carrier by the carrier associated with service provider network . In yet another example the particular user device may have an MDN that was issued by a further carrier.

Servicing ID field may include information associated with an IP multimedia subsystem IMS etc. that is serving the particular user device . The IMS may manage authentication session initiation account information profile information etc. associated with the particular user device . For example the information associated with the IMS may include information associated with devices that are included within the IMS e.g. an HSS device an AAA server a call session control function CSCF server etc. that services the particular user device and or enables the particular user device to communicate with network SCP service provider network etc.

Location info field may store geographic location information associated with the particular user device . For example the trust application may obtain geographic location information associated with the particular user device and may store the geographic location information in location info field . The geographic location information may be obtained as a result of a query sent to the particular user device from information obtained from an access request received from the particular user device and or from information retrieved from administration server . Account state field may store information corresponding to a state of an account with a carrier associated with the particular user device . For example the trust application may store information associated with whether the account is in good standing is delinquent is suspended etc.

Network access point field may store information associated with a network connection with the particular user device . For example the trust application may identify network connection information associated with a manner in which the device application hosted by the particular user device communicates with service provider network during an authentication and or communication session. The network connection information may for example include information identifying a particular gateway server e.g. a service gateway server a packet data network PDN gateway server etc. a port on the particular gateway server via which the device application communicates an access point name APN and or other network connection information.

Policy information field may store policy information associated with whether a policy authorizes access to information associated with service provider network . Policy information field may also or alternatively store privacy settings specified by a user of another user device associated with service provider network that indicates whether and or the manner in which information associated with the other user device is permitted to be accessed by the particular user device .

SCGW may for example receive information associated with user device from SCP in response to a request to access service provider network and the trust application may store the information associated with user device in context data structure . In another example the trust application may obtain information associated with user device and or context information associated with user device based on a query sent to user device . In yet another example the trust application may receive context information associated with user device based on a request for context information sent to administrative server and or another server e.g. an identity management server etc .

In one example the trust application may store an identifier e.g. MDN associated with user device an application identifier e.g. APP associated with an application e.g. hosted by user device via which user device seeks access to service provider network information associated with a user e.g. user of user device and or geographic location information e.g. location A associated with user device e.g. as shown by ellipse . The trust application may communicate with administrative server to identify a carrier with which the device identifier is associated e.g. carrier a source that issued the device identifier e.g. carrier and or an account state associated with user device e.g. premier standing e.g. as shown by ellipse . The trust application may also communicate with administrative server to identify whether and or the manner in which access to information associated with service provider network is authorized based on policy information e.g. authorized associated with service provider network and or privacy settings e.g. permitted specified by a user of another user device associated with service provider network from which information is to be accessed by user device e.g. as shown by ellipse .

When communicating with SCP server and or with user device SCGW may determine via which network access point information and or services e.g. APN PDN associated with user device is being received and or sent and the trust application may store information associated with the network access point in context data structure e.g. as shown by ellipse . SCGW may determine which system is servicing user device IMS and may store information associated with the service in context data structure e.g. as shown as ellipse . Trust application may store information associated with one or more other user devices e.g. as shown by ellipses in context data structure based on communication sessions initiated and or created with the other user devices .

As shown in process may include receiving a request to access a network block . For example SCP may receive a request to access service provider network and may forward the request to SCGW . SCGW may receive the request and a trust application hosted by SCGW may determine whether an access token was received with the access request. The request may be received and or processed by SCGW using one or more APIs e.g. administrative API of . The access token may include information associated with user device a period of time associated with a communication session associated with user device and or conditions under which user device is authorized to access service provider network . In another example implementation the access request may not include the access token. For example SCGW may receive the access request and may obtain from the request the information associated with user device the period of time associated with the communication session and or the conditions under which user device is authorized to access service provider network .

As also shown in if a token indicates that access is to be granted block YES then process may include authorizing a level of access to the network based on the token block . For example the trust application may determine that the communication session associated with user device has not expired when a time that the access request was received is within the period of time associated with the communication session. Alternatively or additionally the trust application may determine that a condition under which user device can access service provider network has been satisfied. In one example the condition may identify another period of time during which user device is permitted to access service provider network and the trust application may determine that a current time is within the other period of time. In yet another example the token may include a value associated with a level of trust associated with user device . The level of trust may be used by the trust application to determine a level of access with which to authorize user device to access service provider network . For example access may be granted for some network services e.g. messages sent via a short message service SMS while denying access for other services e.g. a terminal location service an address book service etc. . Based on the determination that the communication session has not expired the determination that the condition is satisfied and or the value associated with the level of trust the trust application may send a notification to SCP server that authorizes user device to access service provider network .

As further shown in if a token indicates that access is not to be granted block NO then process may include obtaining from the request information associated with user device block and retrieving context information associated with user device block . For example the trust application may determine that the communication session associated with user device has expired when the time that the access request was received is not within the period of time associated with the communication session. Alternatively or additionally the trust application may determine that the condition under which user device can access service provider network has not been satisfied. In one example the condition may identify another period of time during which user device is permitted to access service provider network and the trust application may determine that the current time is not within the other period of time.

Based on the determination that the communication session has expired and or that the condition has not been satisfied the trust application may obtain information associated with user device from the token and or the access request received from SCP . The information associated with user device may include a device identifier e.g. MDN LDN SIM URI IMSI etc. a network address e.g. an IP address a MAC address etc. and or information associated with a user of user device e.g. a username password PIN etc. .

The trust application may also obtain context information associated with user device from the token and or access request. For example the trust application may obtain geographic location information associated with user device an application identifier e.g. application ID application signature etc. or the like. Alternatively or additionally the trust application may send a request for context information associated with user device to administrative server . Administrative server may receive the request and in one example may authenticate user device . Administrative server may authenticate user device by determining whether information associated with user device received in the request matches information associated with user device stored in a memory associated with administrative server . If administrative server authenticates user device e.g. if the received information matches the stored information then administrative server may retrieve from the memory context information associated with user device . If administrative server does not authenticate user device e.g. if the received information does not match the stored information then administrative server may not send the context information to SCGW . In another example implementation the context information associated with user device may be stored and or maintained by the trust application within a memory associated with SCGW .

The context information may include information associated with a carrier that corresponds to user device information associated with a source such as a carrier e.g. Verizon AT T etc. from which a device identifier e.g. an MDN an LDN etc. was issued information associated with a state of an account associated with user device and or policy information associated with service provider network . SCGW may also or alternatively obtain information associated with a network access point through which user device is communicating and or information associated with a system that services user device e.g. an IMS etc. .

As still further shown in if additional information associated with user device is to be retrieved block YES then process may include interrogating user device to obtain additional information associated with user device block . For example the trust application may determine that certain information e.g. geographic location information information associated with the user information associated with capabilities of user device and or information associated with a type and or model of user device etc. could not be obtained from the access request and or administrative server . Based on the determination that the certain information could not be obtained the trust application may cause SCGW to interrogate user device by sending a query to user device to obtain the certain information.

As also shown in if additional information associated with user device is not to be retrieved block NO or after interrogating user device and or administrative server to obtain additional information associated with user device block process may include storing the context information and or the information associated with user device block . For example the trust application may store the information associated with user device and or the context information associated with user device in a data structure e.g. context data structure of which may be stored in a memory associated with SCGW . The trust application may use the information associated with user device and or the context information associated with user device to determine a level of trust to assign to user device as described below in .

Score field may store values corresponding to a relative measure of trustworthiness hereinafter referred to as trust values associated with a particular user device based on information associated with user device and or context information associated with user device stored in trust data structure . For example score field may store a trust value for each entry that corresponds to a respective field within trust data structure associated with the particular user device .

Level of trust field may store a value that represents a sum of the trust values stored in score field associated with user device . The value stored in level of trust field may correspond to a measure of trustworthiness e.g. a level of trust associated with the particular user device that the trust application may use to determine whether to permit the particular user device to access services provided by provider network . Additionally or alternatively the trust application may use the value stored in level of trust field to determine a level of access to service provider network that is authorized for the particular user device such as no access e.g. no access to any services limited access e.g. access to particular services and no access to other services full access e.g. access to all services etc. The trust application may also or alternatively determine whether a potential security event has been detected e.g. when a level of trust is below a threshold .

The trust application may assign a trust value for a particular entry based on whether or not the entry stores information. For example user info field may store information associated with a user of the particular user device e.g. user and the trust application may store a particular trust value e.g. 1 in score field that corresponds to user info field based on the determination that user info field stores the information associated with the user. In another example user info field may not store information associated with the user and the trust application may store a trust value that is less than the particular trust value e.g. 0 in score field P that corresponds to user info field based on the determination that user info field does not store the information associated with the user.

In another example the trust application may assign a trust value for the particular entry based on whether the information stored in the entry is likely to increase a quantity of security risk decrease a quantity of security risk or neither increase nor decrease a quantity of security risk e.g. less than the threshold and greater than the other threshold associated with user device . For example account state field may store information associated with a state of an account e.g. premier standing that is likely to decrease a quantity of security risk associated with the particular user device . Based on the likelihood that state of the account is likely to decrease the quantity of security risk the trust application may store a high trust value e.g. 1 . In another example account state field may store information associated with the state of an account e.g. good standing that is not likely to increase or decrease a quantity of security risk associated with the particular user device . Based on the likelihood that the state of the account is not likely to increase or decrease a quantity of security risk the trust application may store a neutral trust value e.g. 0 that is less than the high trust value and greater than a low trust value. In yet another example account state field may store information associated with a state of an account e.g. suspended that is likely to increase a quantity of security risk associated with the particular user device . Based on the likelihood that state of the account is likely to increase the quantity of security risk the trust application may store a low trust value e.g. 1 that is less than the neutral trust value.

Based on the trust values in score field that correspond to each of the entries within trust data structure the trust application may generate a sum of the trust values and may store the sum in level of trust field . For example the trust application may generate a sum of the trust values associated with the particular user device and may store the sum e.g. 10 in level of trust field e.g. as shown by ellipse . The trust application may in another example generate another sum based on other trust values e.g. score field associated with another user device and may store the other sum e.g. 7 in level of trust field e.g. as shown by ellipse . The trust application may generate a further sum e.g. 3 associated with a further user device and may store the further sum in level of trust field Q e.g. as shown by ellipse .

Based on the values stored in the level of trust fields the trust application may in one example determine whether to authorize user device to access service provider network based on whether the level of trust associated with user device is greater than a threshold. In another example the trust application may deny access to user device when the level of trust associated with user device is less than the threshold and may detect a potential security event if the level of trust is below a minimum threshold. If a potential security event is detected the trust application may determine that user device poses a substantial and or immediate security threat to the integrity of the service provider network such as when an imposter user device is identified when a potential virus is detected when a user device associated with a suspended account is being used etc. Based on the detection of the potential security event the trust application may perform an operation to contain the security event in a manner described above e.g. with respect to . In still another example the trust application may grant limited access if the level of trust is greater than the threshold but less than another threshold. The trust application may grant higher levels of access that correspond to higher levels of trust.

As shown in process may include receiving an instruction to determine a level of trust associated with user device block retrieving information from a data structure associated with user device and or assigning a trust value to each data item associated with the retrieved information block . For example SCGW may determine a level of trust associated with user device in response to an access request associated with user device that was processed in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to . In another example SCGW may determine the level of trust in response to receipt of an update request from SCP to update a level of trust and or an access token associated with user device . SCP may send the update request based on a determination by SCP that an authorization state and or access token associated with user device has or is about to expire and or that conditions under which the authorization and or token were granted are no longer valid. The trust application may in response to the access request and or update request retrieve information from a data structure e.g. context data structure of stored in a memory associated with SCGW in response to the request to access service provider network received from user device via SCP .

The trust application may use information obtained from the context data structure to determine whether and or a level in which user device is authorized to access service provider network in response to the access request. The trust application may use the information obtained from the context data structure to determine a level of trust associated with user device . For example the trust application may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to assign a trust value to each element of the information e.g. to each entry associated with user device stored in the context data structure . In one example implementation the trust application may store the information obtained from the context data structure and or the assigned trust values in a trust data structure e.g. trust data structure of .

As also shown in process may include determining a level of trust associated with user device based on the trust values block . For example the trust application may determine a level of trust associated with user device based on the trust values associated with the information obtained from the context data structure. In one example the trust application may determine a level of trust associated with user device based on a sum of the assigned trust values. The trust application may for example use the level of trust to determine whether to authorize user device to access service provider network . In another example the trust application may use the level of trust to determine a level of access associated with user device to service provider network such as no access e.g. no access to any services limited access e.g. access to particular services and no access to other services full access e.g. access to all services etc. In yet another example the trust application may determine whether user device poses a substantial and or immediate security threat to the integrity of service provider network by comparing the level of trust to a threshold.

As further shown in if a level of trust is less than a threshold block YES then process may include determining that a potential security event has occurred block and performing a containment operation in response to the potential security event block . For example the trust application may detect a potential security event and or may determine that user device poses a substantial and or immediate security threat to the integrity of service provider network based on a determination that the level of trust is less than the threshold.

For example the level of trust may be less than the threshold when a quantity of entries e.g. within the trust data structure that store data items associated with information associated with user device or context information associated with user device are less than an entry threshold e.g. when all or most entries are empty relative to the entry threshold . The trust application may in this example assign a trust value to an empty entry that is less than a trust value that corresponds to an entry that stores a data item.

In another example the level of trust may be less than the threshold when a quantity of entries e.g. within the trust data structure store information that is likely to increase a quantity of security risk associated with user device . The trust application may for example assign particular trust values to data items that correspond to information associated with the user device and or context information associated with the user device that are likely to increase a quantity of security risk associated with user device e.g. a data item identifying an account as delinquent or in poor standing . In this example the particular trust values may be less than trust values that correspond to data items that are likely to decrease the quantity of security risk associated with user device e.g. a data item indicating an account in premier or good standing or data items that will neither decrease nor increase the quantity of risk associated with user device e.g. a blank entry within the data structure .

Based on the determination that the level of trust associated with user device is less than the threshold the trust application may initiate a containment operation to ensure that user device does not access service provider network and or that information potentially associated with user device e.g. which may include nefarious information does not flow into service provider network . For example the trust application may cause certain APIs e.g. administrative API service API etc. of within SCGW not to receive and or process traffic e.g. associated with user device and or any traffic sent from SCP . In another example the trust application may send a containment notification to SCP indicating that the containment operation is to be performed. The containment notification may in one example instruct SCP to flush e.g. remove erase purge overwrite etc. all information and or data stored in a memory associated with SCP . In another example the containment notification may instruct SCP to flush a portion of the information and or data associated with user device stored in the memory.

In another example implementation the trust application may initiate the containment operation in response to a security event notification from SCP indicating that a potential security event has been detected. In this example SCP may determine that a potential security event has occurred when nefarious information is received from user device a change and or degradation in performance e.g. that is greater than a performance threshold is detected and or a scan of the memory results in an identification of a virus and or other nefarious information. SCGW may receive the security event notification and may in response send a containment notification instructing SCP to perform a containment operation in a manner similar to that described above.

As yet further shown in if a level of trust is not less than a threshold block NO then process may include generating a token based on the level of trust block and sending the token to the user device block . For example the trust application may determine that a potential security event has not occurred based on a determination that the level of trust is not less than the threshold. For example the level of trust may not be less than the threshold when a quantity of entries e.g. within the trust data structure that store data items associated with information associated with user device or context information associated with user device are greater than an entry threshold e.g. when none or only a few entries are empty relative to the entry threshold . The trust application may in this example assign a trust value to a data item stored within an entry that is greater than a trust value that corresponds to an entry that does not store a data item.

In another example the level of trust may not be less than the threshold when a quantity of entries e.g. within the trust data structure store information that is likely to decrease a quantity of security risk associated with user device . The trust application may for example assign particular trust values to data items that correspond to information associated with the user device and or context information associated with the user device that are likely to decrease a quantity of security risk associated with user device e.g. a data item identifying an account as premier and or in good standing . In this example the particular trust values may be greater than trust values that correspond to data items that are likely to increase the quantity of security risk associated with user device e.g. a data item indicating an account in poor standing or a delinquent account or data items that will neither decrease nor increase the quantity of risk associated with user device e.g. a blank entry within the data structure .

Based on the determination that the level of trust associated with user device is not less than the threshold the trust application may not initiate a containment operation and may determine whether to permit user device to access service provider network . For example if the level of trust associated with user device is less than an access threshold then the trust application may send a notification to SCP and or user device indicating that access to service provider network is not authorized. In another example if the level of trust associated with user device is not less than the access threshold then the trust application may authorize user device to access service provider network .

Based on the determination that user device is authorized to access service provider network the trust application may determine an access level at which user device is to be authorized to access service provider network based on the level of trust. In one example the trust application may determine that the level of trust is greater than a maximum access threshold and the trust application may generate a token that grants full access to service provider network . In another example if the trust application determines that the level of trust is not greater than the maximum access threshold and is greater than a minimum access threshold then the trust application may generate a token that grants medium access e.g. less than full access to service provider network . In yet another example the trust application may determine that the level of trust is not greater than a minimum access threshold and the trust application may generate a token that grants minimum access e.g. less than medium access or no access to service provider network . It should be appreciated that the minimum medium and or maximum levels of access are described for explanatory purposes. In other example implementations there may be additional access levels different access levels fewer access levels and or differently arranged access levels than are described above.

The access token may be sent to SCP and or user device that enables user device to use the access token in order to access service provider network . The access token may for example identify a level of access minimum medium maximum etc. a period of time during which the access is authorized information on which access is authorized e.g. information associated with user device and or context information associated with user device whether and or a manner in which the period of time may be extended etc.

Systems and or methods described herein may enable context information and or information associated with user device to be obtained in response to a request to access a service provider network received from user device . The systems and or methods may enable a level of trust associated with user device to be determined based on the context information and or information associated with user device . The systems and or methods may use the level of trust to determine whether and or at what level user device is to be granted access to the service provider network. The systems and or methods may use the level of trust to determine whether a potential security event associated with the network has occurred that may cause the trust application to perform a containment operation in order to avoid and or minimize effects caused by the security event. The systems and or methods may permit a server device to act as a proxy for the service provider network that enables the containment operation to be performed and or level of trust to be determined and or maintained with respect to user device .

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the embodiments.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component or logic that performs one or more functions. A component or logic as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the embodiments. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the embodiments includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

