---

title: Method and apparatus for determining locations of a moving radar
abstract: A method for determining locations of a moving emitter is disclosed. Initially, a set of emitter pulses is collected when a collector platform moves over a collection baseline. In addition, the time and location of the collection platform are recorded each time an emitter pulse is collected. A set of time-tagged pulse time-of-arrival (TOA) values is then generated by associating a recorded collection time value to each of the collected emitter pulses. Next, a set of time-tagged and position-tagged pulse TOA values is generated by associating a recorded collection location value to each of the time-tagged pulse TOA values. Finally, a set of location values and velocity values of a moving emitter is estimated based on the time-tagged and position-tagged pulse TOA values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08587467&OS=08587467&RS=08587467
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08587467
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
The present invention was made with United States Government support under Contract number HR0011 09 C 0096. The Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present patent application is related to U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 933 888 and 7 315 280 the pertinent of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to geolocation systems in general and in particular to a method and apparatus for rapidly determining locations of a moving radar.

It is tactically important for a military aircraft or other platform to be able to detect pulsed radiation from a pulsed emitter such as a radar or other radio frequency source and to determine the position of the pulsed emitter. Generally there are two conventional time based methods for geolocating a pulsed emitter. The first method determines the time differences of arrival TDOA of emitter pulses by measuring across two antennae on either a single aircraft or two different aircraft. The second method measures the time of arrival TOA of emitter pulses as a single aircraft traverses a path. TOA measurements are collected over a number of snippets called dwells. The second method exploits the varying inter pulse intervals due to movement of the single aircraft from one position to another.

In order for the above mentioned methods to work the target emitter is assumed to be stationary. If the target emitter is moving the above mentioned methods produce a biased estimate of the target emitter location. Such bias is significant when compared to the distance that the target emitter moves during the observation interval and in many cases the bias is also much larger than the effects of the measurement noise.

Consequently it would be desirable to provide an improved method and apparatus for determining locations of a moving emitter.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a set of emitter pulses is collected when a collector platform moves over a collection baseline. In addition the time and location of the collection platform are recorded each time an emitter pulse is collected. A set of time tagged pulse time of arrival TOA values is then generated by associating a recorded collection time value to each of the collected emitter pulses. Next a set of time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values is generated by associating a recorded collection location value to each of the time tagged pulse TOA values. Finally a set of location values and velocity values of a moving emitter is estimated based on the time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is depicted an environment in which a preferred embodiment of the present invention is applicable. As shown an aircraft traverses a collection baseline from a location Rto a location R. As aircraft traverses along collection baseline it measures the time of arrival T. . . Tof radar pulses at several corresponding aircraft locations R. . . Rover collection baseline . The resulting time position pairs such as T R represent the time of arrival of radar pulses from an emitter to be tracked.

Initially the locations Rand Rof emitter are unknown and the times that pulses Pand Pgenerated by emitter are also unknown. Aircraft contains a geolocation system for measuring emitter s pulse time of arrival TOA values and for measuring the locations of aircraft when each of the pulse TOA value was collected.

With reference now to there is depicted a geolocation system in which a preferred embodiment of the present invention is incorporated. Geolocation system is capable of collecting pulse information from emitter from and generating estimates of the location and velocity of emitter based on the collected pulse information. As shown a geolocation system includes a radar receiver a precision clock a pulse position associator an aircraft navigation system a multi parameter state estimator and a tracker . Radar receiver is directly associated with precision clock and the start time of precision clock is arbitrary. When a pulse is detected by radar receiver the clock time is utilized to define the pulse TOA with a high precision. For example when each of pulses P. . . Pis being detected radar receiver generates one of corresponding pulse TOA values T. . . T. Pulses P. . . Pare then associated with corresponding pulse TOA values T. . . Tto form a set of time tagged pulse TOA values.

The set of time tagged pulse TOA values is then fed into pulse position associator that is connected to navigation system . Within pulse position associator each of time tagged pulse TOA values is associated with an estimate of the location of aircraft at the time the pulse arrived. Pulse position associator subsequently generates a set of time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values T R. . . T R. The set of time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values T R. . . T Ris then fed to multi parameter state estimator .

The set of time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values is preferably built up on a pulse by pulse basis. With the addition of a new pulse the set of time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values can be used by multi parameter state estimator to provide a set of time location estimates and a set of velocity estimates of emitter . The accuracy of the two sets of estimates improves as more pulses are added. The time location estimates and the velocity estimates from multi parameter state estimator are then sent to tracker to provide a current position estimate and a velocity estimate of emitter .

Multi parameter state estimator performs a multi parameter search to jointly estimate the timing of emitter s pulse generator as well as the position and velocity of emitter . Parameters representing emitter s pulse generator may include but not limited to a pulse repetition interval a pulse stagger pattern timing phase and start time. These information allow the emission times of emitter s pulses to be predicted. However since the distances dand d from to emitter and the velocity of emitter are initially unknown the details of emitter s pulse timing cannot be estimated by TOA information alone. The multi parameter search postulates an initial position and velocity for emitter and an initial timing pattern and phase. With this initial starting point the measured pulse TOA information are matched to a model. The quality of the match is measured by a chisq value or a maximum likelihood ratio. The parameters include details of the timing of emitter and the location and velocity of emitter are adjusted so that the chisq value is minimized or the likelihood ratio is maximized.

Emitter generates a sequence of pulses in a specific timing pattern. This timing sequence may be in a constant pulse interval a staggered pattern or a complex pattern. show a staggered pattern. shows pulses emitted as a function of time where time advances towards the left of the diagram. The TOAs of these pulses observed from location Rat a distance dare delayed relative to the emitted time by d c where c is the speed of light as shown in . Similarly at location R the delay is a different value d c where c is the speed of light.

During a collection scenario both aircraft and emitter are in motion. shows a pulse Pbeing emitted by emitter at time t and pulse Pis received by aircraft at TOA t d c. also shows a pulse Pbeing emitted at time t and pulse Pis received by aircraft at TOA t d c. Note that distance dand distance dare initially unknown. However if the radar timing pattern is known it is possible to compute the change in the aircraft to radar distance because t tis known since the timing pattern is known TOA TOA 

In fact the range change relative to some starting point over collection path can be found which of course requires keeping track or accounting for all the pulses from emitter . Not all emitter pulses need to be detected if the missed emitter pulses are accounted for. Well known methods such as gradient decent can be utilized to search the parameter space.

The range change is a function of the known location of aircraft i.e. collection baseline and the unknown and changing locations of emitter . An initial guess can be made at the starting location of emitter with the assumption of a certain speed and heading. This allows a predicted range change R R for j i i 1 i 2 . . . i N to be made. This prediction is compared to the measured result and the fit quality or goodness of fit is computed. Adjustments to the fit are made to improve the fit quality. Well known methods such as chisq test or maximum likelihood can be utilized to evaluate the fit quality.

In many cases the timing pattern of emitter is also unknown. However by observing the TOA values it is possible to determine the timing pattern of emitter . The observation is done when both aircraft and emitter are moving. This complicates the estimation process since the range changes over the observation window. To address this effect a multi parameter search that considers the timing pattern radar location and radar velocity vector needs to be performed. Just as before all parameters are adjusted in order to maximize fit quality.

With reference now to there is depicted a high level logic flow diagram of a method for rapidly determining locations of a moving radar in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. This method is preferably performed by multi parameter state estimator from . Starting at block a segment is initialized or reset as shown in block . A segment is designed to include multiple time tagged and position tagged pulse TOA values such as T R. . . T Rfrom associated with pulses emitted from a specific emitter. New collected pulse information are then added to the segment as depicted in block . A tolerance fit routine is performed on the segment as shown in block . Preferably the tolerance fit routine includes a chisq fit and residue fit.

At this point a set of time location estimates and a set of velocity estimates are calculated and such estimates are fed into a tracker such as tracker from to report an estimate current emitter position and velocity as depicted in block .

A determination is then made whether or not the result of the tolerance fit routine is acceptable as shown in block . If the result of the tolerance fit routine is acceptable then the process returns to block for adding more collected pulse information to the same segment. Otherwise if the result of the tolerance fit routine is not acceptable then the segment is discarded as depicted in block and the process returns to block to initialize a new segment for receiving collected pulse information.

If the segment is discarded in block the last known position and velocity of the emitter from block are utilized to form an initial starting point in block . Thus the output of tracker from is fed to multi parameter state estimator from and this information together with the new segment data from pulse position associator from is used by multi parameter state estimator to produce updated emitter location and velocity estimates. Feeding the outputs from tracker to multi parameter state estimator results in a faster convergence in the search process as well as convervence with less pulse data.

In addition segment sizes can be adjusted to achieve better results for various types of emitters. For example smaller segment sizes can be used for less predictable emitters.

As has been described the present invention provides a method and apparatus for rapidly determining locations of a moving radar.

It is also important to note that although the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functional computer system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of computer recordable type media such as compact discs and digital versatile discs.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

