---

title: GPS device
abstract: A golf GPS device is disclosed herein. The device includes a GPS unit, a memory for storing a plurality of aerial images of a golf course, a display for displaying the plurality of aerial images, a user input for inputting a plurality of location points on an aerial image of the plurality of aerial images displayed on the display, and a processor comprising means for collision avoidance of features on the display of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07942762&OS=07942762&RS=07942762
owner: Callaway Golf Company
number: 07942762
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
The Present Application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 184 664 filed Jun. 5 2009.

The field of the invention generally relates to electronic devices which utilize the global positioning system GPS to determine locations and distances and more particularly to a GPS device for determining distances to features on a golf course and displaying the distances to features golf course images and or other golf related data. The invention also relates to systems and methods for supporting such a GPS device.

Various golf GPS devices both handheld and golf cart mounted have been previously disclosed and described in the prior art. Generally these devices comprise a GPS receiver and processing electronics the GPS system a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or cathode ray tube CRT and a user input device such as a keypad. Golf course data is input and stored in the golf GPS device including for example the coordinates for locations of greens bunkers and or other course features. These types of devices use the GPS system to determine the location of the device. Then the device calculates and displays the distances to the various golf course features such as the distance to the front middle and back of the green or the distance to a bunker or water hazard. Accordingly by placing the device at or near the golfer s ball the device can relatively easily and accurately provide the golfer with important distance information usable while playing golf. For example the distance information is used by the golfer to formulate strategy for playing a hole sometimes called course management and for club selection.

As an example of a golf GPS device U.S. Pat. No. 5 507 485 the 485 patent which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety purports to disclose a golf GPS device which can display depictions of a golf hole including multiple selectable views of each hole such as the approach to the green and the green itself. The 485 patent describes that the device is configured to automatically determine the location of the device using a GPS receiver and then automatically display the golf hole view that would be of immediate interest to the golfer. Although the 485 patent discloses that the distance to displayed features may be indicated on the display there is no description of how or where such information is displayed. The 485 patent also describes that the device may include other features such as means for receiving climate i.e. temperature and humidity and weather i.e. wind speed and direction conditions means for recording and computing scores bets and handicaps means for recording details of a golf game sufficient to later replay and analyze a round of golf means for suggesting shot and club selections to the golfer clubs used and distances obtained for shots and means for updating daily tee and hole positions on a removable integrated circuit IC card. The course data for each particular course is also described as being stored on removable IC cards which are interchangeable between a host computer and the golf computer.

However the 485 patent does not describe how the course data is generated or how daily tee and hole positions are determined. The means for updating and supplying course data through removable IC cards which are programmed on a host computer and then inserted into the golf computer is clumsy and inconvenient. Moreover the 485 patent only describes a cart based golf computer and although the 485 patent suggests that portions of the device the display and input means could be implemented on a handheld unit such as the Apple Computer Company s NEWTON there is no enabling disclosure of a fully integrated standalone handheld golf GPS device.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 456 938 the 938 patent which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety describes a handheld golf GPS device. The handheld device is described as software executed on a palm held computer PC saddled into and connected directly to a dGPS differential global positioning system or differential GPS receiver. The handheld device of the 938 patent has a modular construction comprising a dGPS receiver module which receives and accommodates a display module. The display module is described as being any of a variety of handheld multifunctional computing devices having a display screen and a processor running an operating system. Suitable display modules disclosed include Personal Data Assistants PDAs such as a Pocket PC Palm PDA or similar palm held computing device. The screen is split into two distinct sections a course display section for displaying a graphic representation of an area of a golf course and a separate data and menu display section for displaying touch sensitive menu buttons and data including distances . In the disclosed embodiment the majority of the screen includes the first section and a thin left column of the screen shows a vertical menu column of touch sensitive menu buttons and data such as distances.

The 938 patent also describes that the handheld golf GPS device could be constructed so that the modules are integrated into one unit but does not describe the construction of such an integrated unit in any detail.

The 938 patent describes various functionality of the handheld golf GPS device methods of creating golf course maps and methods of distributing the golf course maps to the handheld golf GPS devices. For example to use the device of the 938 patent during a round of golf course data is first loaded onto the device. This may be accomplished by mapping the course using the device and using that course data file as discussed below or by connecting the device to a personal computer PC or directly to an internet connection and downloading the course data file onto the device. There is a setup menu for setting player preferences such as club selection and data gathering lie and stroke tracking enabled disabled marking of green strokes and setting the green reference point system units and course tee and starting hole selections. Once the course tee and starting hole have been selected the device displays a graphical icon representation of the selected hole and certain distances to features whose locations are pre stored in the course data file is displayed only in the data and menu section of the display. For example the distance to the center of the green may be displayed in one of the boxes in the data and menu section of the display. The graphical representation includes simple icons for various features to be shown on the display as shown in FIG. 29 of the 938 patent. At any time the location of the device is determined using the dGPS receiver.

The device of the 938 patent also includes a club selection feature in which the average distance for the player s clubs is displayed for each shot during play. The device also includes features for distance measuring from the location of the device to a target marked on the display by the user. Another described feature of the device is a shot tracking method which allows the user to store the location of each shot and the club used for the stroke at such location. Several other features are described in the 938 patent including display functions such as pan and zoom score keeping statistics tracking and the ability to upload game shot data to a web site or PC and then view a replay of a round with the speed of replay being adjustable.

Another example of a handheld golf GPS device is the Skycaddie line of devices from Skygolf . At present there are four models of Skycaddies with various levels of functionality and features. Like the devices described in the 485 patent and the 938 patent the golf course data is loaded into the Skycaddie device. As described by Skygolf the golf course data is generated by mapping each course on the ground using GPS and survey equipment. The database of golf course data is accessible through the internet on Skycaddie s website. The golf course data is downloaded onto a PC and then may be loaded onto the Skycaddie device by connecting the device to the PC. In addition the Skycaddie devices allow a user to map a course or additional course features in the event a course or feature of interest is not included in the Skygolf database.

Another example of a handheld golf GPS device is the Skycaddie line of devices from Skygolf . At present there are four models of Skycaddies with various levels of functionality and features. Like the devices described in the 485 patent and the 938 patent the golf course data is loaded into the Skycaddie device. As described by Skygolf the golf course data is generated by mapping each course on the ground using GPS and survey equipment. The database of golf course data is accessible through the internet on Skycaddie s website. The golf course data is downloaded onto a PC and then may be loaded onto the Skycaddie device by connecting the device to the PC. In addition the Skycaddie devices allow a user to map a course or additional course features in the event a course or feature of interest is not included in the Skygolf database.

Certain models of the Skycaddies may also display an outline of the green for a selected hole with the distances to the front center and back of green displayed to the side of the displayed outline. Some models also display an icon representation of certain features such as a creek bunker or green in one section of the display and the distances to such features in a different section of the display next to the icons. The Skycaddie devices can only measure distance to locations which are not pre stored in the course data by marking a starting location and then moving the device to the measured location and marking the ending location. The device will then display the distance between the two locations. However this requires walking all the way to the measured location. The Skycaddie devices are configured to automatically advance to the next hole of play based on the location of the device.

However none of the previously described golf GPS devices provides a convenient pocket sized form factor a high resolution color display capable of displaying photographic images of a golf course flexible calibration to improve accuracy or the functionality and ease of use to take full advantage of such features. Accordingly there is a need for an improved golf GPS device which overcomes the deficiencies and drawbacks of previous devices and systems.

On small consumer electronics displays text readability is a significant challenge. This is true for both small and large font sizes when displaying a large amount of data on the screen. In the case of dynamic content being displayed on the screen where users have the ability to change how they are viewing the data while the data itself is changing it is especially important to be able to manage how that data is being displayed. Maintaining on screen readability with very limited screen space in this environment is an issue that all vendors deal with in one way or another.

Specifically with golf GPS the display deals with distances and other graphics overlayed on some form of representation of the golf hole course. There are many competitors in this space most of which deal with this scenario by having fixed fields where the distances get updated. Several simply have text distances with defined fields or a variable listing of distances which gets lengthened or shortened depending on the number if items which need to be displayed. There are also solutions which overlay distances onto a graphical representation of the hole.

One competing solution simply lines up the distances on the side of the display area and draws lines out to roughly where the measurement point applies. There are several disadvantages to this approach some of which are a confusing relationship between distances and measurement points as well as a decreased capability to precisely depict the measurement point.

Another approach is to simply not display data relating to features on the course and only allow the user to select their own measurement points. This has the obvious disadvantage of required interaction from the user and lack of speed in getting information.

The approach of the present invention is to display yardage and measurement point indicators directly overlayed on the course imagery. Selection of measurement points is dynamic based on where the user is currently located so the distances and the measurement points are constantly moving. This requires a dynamic collision avoidance of text vs. other text as well as versus the measurement points so that information is presented clearly. This is achieved by constantly checking the location of a given text versus all elements in the vicinity. These checks determine if there are any location changes required for the current piece of text. It can also determine that there is not a suitable location for the text in which case it does not get displayed and the measurement marker is changed to reflect this. This is done in a priority order so that the most important information is always displayed. The algorithms for determining the text location are outlined below.

The present invention comprises a portable golf GPS device and system which is simple accurate and easy to use yet provides excellent functionality and features in a compact lightweight form factor. The portable golf GPS device of the present invention generally comprises a microprocessor operably coupled to a GPS unit an input device such as a keypad or touch screen operably coupled to the microprocessor and a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD operably coupled to the microprocessor. A program memory system which contains at least some of the software and data to operate the device is also operably coupled to the microprocessor. The device also comprises various firmware and software configured to control the operation of the device and provide the device functionality as described in more detail below. In addition data utilized by the device such as golf course data and images may be stored in the program memory or other memory module such as Secure Digital memory card SD Card USB based memory devices other types of flash memory or the like.

For portability the golf GPS device of the present invention is self contained compact and lightweight. For example the device is preferably battery operated. The portable golf GPS device is preferably contained in a housing such that the entire device has a very compact and lightweight form factor and is preferably handheld and small enough to fit comfortably in a pocket of a user s clothing. For example the entire golf GPS device may be 4 inches long 4 by 2 inches wide 2 by 0.6 inches thick 0.6 or smaller in any one or more of the dimensions. The entire golf GPS device may weigh 3.5 ounces or less including the battery.

The microprocessor may be any suitable processor such as one of the MX line of processors available from Freescale Semiconductor or other ARM based microprocessor. The GPS unit may be any suitable GPS microchip or chipset such as the NJ1030 NJ1006 GPS chipset available from Nemerix Inc. The LCD is preferably a high resolution e.g. 320 pixels by 240 pixels QVGA or higher resolution full color LCD having a size of about 2.2 diagonal

The program memory may include one or more electronic memory devices on the golf GPS device. For example the program memory may include some memory contained on the microprocessor memory in a non volatile memory storage device such as flash memory EPROM or EEPROM memory on a hard disk drive hdd SD Card s USB based memory devices other types of flash memory or other suitable storage device. The program memory stores at least some of the software configured to control the operation of the device and provide the functionality of the golf GPS device.

The components of the portable golf GPS device are preferably assembled onto a PCB along with various other electronic components used to control and distribute the battery power thereby providing the electronic connections and operability for a functional electronic device.

The hardware and software of the portable golf GPS device are configured to determine track and display useful golf related information before during and after a round of golf For example the GPS device is configured to store golf course data for a particular golf course of interest which is loaded onto the GPS device in any suitable manner. The golf course data includes geographic location coordinates for various golf course features such as bunkers greens water hazards tees and the like. The golf course data may also include golf hole data such a par handicap daily tee and hole locations etc. In addition the golf course data may include photographic course images such as satellite or aerial photographs and or video images.

The use of the GPS device during play of a round of golf is referred to herein as Play Golf mode. In Play Golf mode the basic functionality of the device is as follows. First the golf course being played is selected on the GPS device for example from a list of courses displayed on the display. Then the user should locate the GPS device at a location of play e.g. the location of the user s ball or a tee box . The GPS device determines the location of the device and then displays various golf hole information on the display. For example the device may display the number of the particular golf hole being played par for the hole the length of the hole and the handicap of the hole. The device may also display information regarding the distance to various features of the golf hole being played and an identification of the type of feature. For example the display may show the front and carry distance of bunkers the front middle and back of the green the front and carry distance of water hazards and the like.

In one innovative aspect of the present invention the GPS device is configured to display the golf hole information in two distinct operating modes. In a first mode also referred to herein as the Basic Mode the distances and features are displayed in a text and or icon format. This may be accomplished by simply displaying a list of features and respective distance s for each feature such as Right Fairway Bunker . . . 245 275 or an icon representing a fairway bunker next to the distance . . . 245 275. This would indicate that there is a fairway bunker on the right and is 245 yards to reach the bunker and 275 yards to carry the bunker. In a second mode also referred to herein as the Pro Mode the distances and features are shown on the display on a graphical image of a relevant area also referred to as a viewport of the golf course. The graphical image is preferably a photographic image generated from geo referenced e.g. coordinates are available for any location on the image satellite or aerial digital photographs or geo referenced generated images. Thus the images of the features such as bunkers the green water hazards etc. are displayed in the photographic image and the distances are overlaid onto the image. In another feature of the present invention a distance marker such as a red dot or other small but easily viewable symbol is placed on the feature at the exact point of measurement and the distance number is displayed in the vicinity of the marker.

If the Pro Mode course data has been loaded onto the device the device is configured such that it can toggle back and forth between the Pro Mode display and the Basic Mode display. However if only the Basic Mode course data has been loaded onto the device only the Basic Mode information may be displayed. While viewing a list of features in Basic Mode a feature may be selected such as by scrolling through the list of features and the user may select to view the Pro Mode display of such feature simply by selecting the feature from the list and selecting the Pro Mode. Of course this feature would only be available if the Pro Mode course data has been loaded onto the device. The golf course data set required to operate the device in the Pro Mode and the Basic Mode is the same except that the Pro Mode data set includes the graphical images of the golf course. This simplifies the creation of the course databases because creation of the Pro Mode data set also creates the Basic Mode data set.

In another aspect of the present invention the device includes an innovative automatic dynamic viewport generation method for optimizing the viewability of the distance and feature images in the Pro Mode. The viewport generation may include one or more of several methods to determine the displayed viewport. In one example the viewport generation method may include a method of determining the location and scale of the image of the golf course to be displayed based on the location of the device and therefore the location of play and the characteristics of the golf hole. As an example the method of viewport generation method may display a section of the golf hole that will be most relevant to the golfer from the current location which may be a yardage range such as the next 150 to 250 yards of the golf hole. The method will automatically scale i.e. set the zoom level the graphic image of the relevant section of the hole so that it will fit on the display while maintaining viewability of relevant features e.g. bunkers the green hazards and informational text e.g. yardages . If the hole happens to be a par 3 or there is less than a certain distance e.g. 250 yards to the end of the hole then the viewport generation method may display the rest of the hole at a maximum zoom level that can fit the rest of the hole on the display.

In another method of viewport generation the distances displayed may be adjusted to avoid overlapping. This method may also be referred to as collision management. At certain zoom levels for example very low zoom levels many features as displayed on the display may be very close together such that if all of the distances to these features are displayed the numbers will overlap and the readability of the information will be compromised. To avoid this the method will not display some of the distances so as to avoid any overlapping distances.

In another aspect of the present invention the GPS device is configured to provide panning and zooming of the displayed graphical images of the golf course with the distance overlays. In other words when viewing any Pro Mode graphical display with distances overlaid onto features the device is configured so that the user can pan the image to display the golf course outside the original viewport and the distances remain overlaid at the correct locations next to their respective features. Similarly when zooming in or out from a particular viewport the distances again remain overlaid at the correct locations next to their respective features or feature marker . In addition when zooming and panning the font size of the distances may be constant or set to display at a minimum font size and the collision management methods described above may also be utilized.

In still another aspect of the present invention the golf GPS device is configured to allow the measurement of the distance between locations on the golf course using the images displayed on the display. This is a useful feature which is enabled by the use and display of the actual photographic images of the golf course and is very simple to use. For example to measure the distance between the current location of the device and another location of interest as displayed on the display the user simply selects the measurement mode moves a cursor displayed on the display to the location of interest and then selects the location of interest. The device is configured to determine and display the distance between the coordinates of the current location of the device and the location of interest. In a similar manner the device may also be configured to measure the distance between two locations of interest selected on display. In addition the pan and zoom functions may be utilized automatically or manually during the measurement mode in order to select a location of interest. In other words as the cursor reaches the edge of the viewing area the image will pan to display a portion of the image that was previously outside the viewing area.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the device is configured to perform an innovative calibration method. Like the measurement mode this feature is enabled by the use and display of the actual photographic images of the golf course. To utilize this feature the user locates a physical feature at the golf course which can also be fairly accurately identified and located on a graphical image of the same physical feature shown on the display of the GPS device. Several examples of good features for this calibration method are a cart path intersection a distinctive shape of a bunker a manhole cover or a permanent tee marker. The device is then placed at the physical feature and then the user places a cursor shown on the display of the device onto the image of the same physical feature. To improve the precision of the location of the cursor the image of the feature may be zoomed in to a high zoom level or even the maximum zoom level. The device is configured to determine the offset between the apparent location measured by the GPS device and the location of the physical feature on the displayed image. The resultant offset may then be used to correct all future GPS readings. The positional errors in GPS due to pseudo range errors in the GPS satellite system and environmental conditions are approximately equal within the period of time of a round of golf and over the area of a single golf course. Thus a single calibration during a round of golf will usually be sufficient to account for inaccuracies due to environmental conditions and pseudo range errors of GPS satellite system. Still multiple calibrations during a single round of golf may be accomplished if desired.

The GPS golf device of the present invention may also be configured to present a pre round preview of a golf course including a display of each hypothetical shot and or suggested strategy. This allows the user to get a visual experience and strategize the course prior to playing.

Similarly the device may be configured to track each shot during a round of golf including the club used for each shot and other shot information such as quality and condition of lie degree of swing such as full shot half shot etc. quality of contact ball flight etc. . The device may also be configured to play back a round of golf which was tracked using the device and or download the tracked round to a computer or other device for playback and or analysis.

In still another feature of the present invention the golf GPS device may include voice recognition navigation. The golf GPS device may be configured to allow a user to enter information using vocal inputs such as shot information and scores. The voice recognition feature may also be used to audibly enter commands such as switching between Basic Mode and Pro Mode navigating through the devices menus changing the settings or any other command within the devices menus. Voice recognition facilitates the use of more advanced features such as shot tracking by reducing the amount of inputs that must be made using the input device. As an example when entering a club selection for shot tracking instead of having to scroll through a list of clubs the user need only say seven iron or driver. 

Accordingly a portable golf GPS device and system is provided. Additional aspects and features of the portable golf GPS device and system of the present invention will become apparent from the drawings and detailed description provided below.

Referring to a schematic block diagram of the major electronic components of a golf GPS device according to one embodiment of the present invention will be described. The golf GPS device comprises a microprocessor which is operably coupled to a GPS chipset a user input device an LCD display a program memory a voice recognition module an audio output a data transfer interface and a battery and power management unit . As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the device also comprises other electronic components such as passive electronics and other electronics configured to produce a fully functional GPS device as described herein. In addition the device comprises various firmware and software configured to control the operation of the device and provide the device functionality as described in more detail below.

The microprocessor is preferably an ARM based microprocessor such as one of the MX line of processors available from Freescale Semiconductor but may be any other suitable processor. The microprocessor executes instructions retrieved from the program memory receives and transmits data and generally manages the overall operation of the GPS device .

The GPS chipset is preferably an integrated circuit based GPS chipset which includes a receiver and microcontroller. The GPS chipset may be a single integrated microchip or multiple microchips such as a processor and a separate receiver which are operably coupled to each other for example on a printed circuit board PCB . For instance the GPS chipset may be a NJ1030 GPS chipset available from Nemerix Inc. or any other suitable GPS chipset or microchip. The GPS chipset includes a GPS receiver associated integrated circuit s firmware and or software to control the operation of the microchip and may also include one or more correction signal receiver s alternatively the correction signal receiver s may be integrated into a single receiver along with the GPS receiver . As is well known the GPS unit receives signals from GPS satellites and or other signals such as correction signals and calculates the positional coordinates of the GPS unit . The GPS device utilizes this positional data to calculate and display distances to features or selected locations on a golf course as described in more detail below.

The display may be any suitable graphic display but is preferably a high resolution e.g. 320 pixels by 240 pixels QVGA or higher resolution full color LCD. The display is preferably the largest size display that can be fit into the form factor of the overall device and preferably has a diagonal screen dimension of between about 1.5 inches and 4 inches. For example for the form factor described below with reference to the display may be a 2.2 diagonal QVGA full color LCD. In addition since the display is intended to be used outside under sunlit conditions the display should provide good visibility under brightly lit conditions such as with a transflective LCD.

The program memory stores at least some of the software and data used to control and operate the device . For example the program memory may store the operating system such as LINUX or Windows CE the application software which provides the specific functionality of the device as described below and the golf course data. The program memory broadly includes all of the memory of the device including memory contained on the microprocessor memory in a non volatile memory storage device such as flash memory EPROM or EEPROM memory on a hard disk drive hdd SD Card s USB based memory devices other types of flash memory or other suitable storage device including one or more electronic memory devices on the golf GPS device including an additional removable memory unit .

The user input device may comprise a plurality of buttons a touch screen a keypad or any other suitable user interface which allows a user to select functions and move a cursor. Referring to the embodiment shown in an example of a user input device comprises a directional pad and plurality of buttons and . The device is configured such that directional pad may be used to move a cursor around the display while the buttons may be used to make selections and or activate functions such as activating the voice recognition or switching between modes as described in more detail below .

In order to provide portability the golf GPS device is preferably battery powered by a battery and power management unit . The battery may be any suitable battery including one or more non rechargeable batteries or rechargeable batteries. For instance a rechargeable lithium ion battery would work quite well in this application as it provides relatively long life on a single charge it is compact and it can be re charged many times before it fails or loses significant capacity. The power management unit controls and distributes the battery power to the other components of the device controls battery charging and may provide an output representing the battery life. The power management unit may be a separate integrated circuit and firmware or it may be integrated with the microprocessor or other of the electronic components of the device .

The voice recognition unit comprises electronics and software the term software as used herein shall mean either software or firmware or any combination of both software and firmware configured to receive voice or other sounds and convert them into software commands and or inputs usable by the main application software. The voice recognition unit may comprise a separate integrated circuit electronics and or software or it may be integrated into the main microprocessor . The voice recognition unit includes a microphone . The voice recognition unit is configured to detect voice and or other sound inputs from a user of the device and convert the sound inputs into electrical signals. The voice recognition unit then digitizes the analog electrical signals and computes a command or other input representative of the digitized signal. For example a command for switching between Pro Mode and Basic Mode may be input using the voice recognition unit by speaking the term Pro Mode or Basic Mode into the microphone . Of course the main application software must also be configured to receive the inputs from the voice recognition unit . The hardware and software for the voice recognition unit are relatively complex but packaged solutions are available such as the products available from Texas Instruments Inc. or Wolfson Micro Inc.

The audio output comprises electronics and software to convert digital signals from the device into electrical signals for driving a speaker or headphones. The audio output may comprise a phone jack also shown in and or a speaker . The audio output typically includes a digital to analog converter a power amplifier and may also include software for converting information or data into audible sounds. For instance the audio output may be configured to convert distances measured by the device into an audibly replicated voice of the distance in words such as one hundred fifty. Additionally the device may be configured to also play digital music files such as MP3 audio files or digital video files such as MPEG files with the audio being output using the audio output .

The voice recognition unit and audio output may be integrated together into a software and hardware unit. For example such integrated products are available from Texas Instruments Inc. and Wolfson Micro Inc.

The data transfer interface is configured to send and receive data from a computer or other electronic device e.g. another golf GPS device . The interface may be a physical connection such as a USB connection a radio frequency connection such as Wi Fi wireless USB or Bluetooth an infra red optical link or any other suitable interface which can exchange electronic data between the GPS device and another electronic device. As shown in one preferred embodiment in the interface comprises a USB connection having a USB connector

The electronic components of the golf GPS device are preferably assembled onto a PCB along with various other electronic components and mechanical interfaces such as buttons for the user input device thereby providing the electronic connections and operability for a functional electronic GPS device .

Turning to now the golf GPS device preferably comprises a housing which houses the electronic components such that the entire device has a very compact thin and lightweight form factor. The housing may be formed of any suitable material but is preferably a plastic material which is substantially transparent to radio frequency signals from GPS satellites. Indeed the golf GPS device is preferably handheld and small enough to fit comfortably in a pocket of a user s clothing. One example of the form factor for the GPS device with dimensions is shown in . In one preferred form the GPS device may have the following dimensions a height of about 4 inches or less a width of 1.9 inches or less and a thickness of 0.6 inches or less. More preferably the height is 3.9 inches or less the width is 1.8 inches or less and the thickness is 0.55 inches or less. The entire golf GPS device may weigh about 3.5 ounces or less including the battery .

An application software program is stored in the program memory . The application software program is configured to operate with the microprocessor and the other electronic components to provide the golf GPS device with the functionality as described herein. Most generally the hardware and software of the portable golf GPS device are configured to determine track and display useful golf related information before during and after a round of golf. The GPS device is configured to store golf course data for a particular golf course of interest which is loaded onto the GPS device through the data transfer interface .

The golf courses are mapped to create the golf course data using any suitable method such as ground survey or more preferably by using geo referenced satellite or aerial images. The mapping process produces golf course data which can be used by the GPS device to determine the coordinates of golf course features of interest such as the greens bunkers hazards tees pin positions other landmarks and the like. Generally the perimeter of the golf course features will be mapped so that distance to the front and back of the feature may be determined. The mapping process can be done quickly and easily by displaying the geo referenced images of the golf course on a computer and then using a script or other software each feature of interest is traced or a series of discrete points on the perimeter may be selected . The captured data is then used to create a data set comprising the coordinates for a plurality of points on the perimeter of the feature or a vector map of the perimeter or other data which can be used to calculate the distance to such feature from the location of the GPS device . The golf course data preferably also includes golf hole data such as par handicap daily tee and hole locations etc. In addition for use with the Pro Mode as described below the golf course data may include geo referenced photographic course images such as satellite or aerial photographs and or video images. Indeed the golf course data package for operating the device in the Pro Mode and the Basic Mode is substantially the same except that the Pro Mode data package includes the graphical images of the golf course. In other words the golf course data related to the feature locations is exactly the same for both the Pro Mode and the Basic Mode and the GPS device is configured to utilize this data with or without the graphical images. Thus advantageously creation of the Pro Mode data package also creates the Basic Mode data set.

With reference now to the operation and functionality of GPS device according to one embodiment will be described. Referring to a Main Menu screen is displayed on the display . The Main Menu screen has two options Play Golf or Settings. The choices on the Main Menu screen or any of the other menus and screen displays described herein can be selected by changing the highlighted option using the up and down arrows on the directional pad of the user input device . The button may function as an Enter key to make a selection. If a touch screen input device is utilized the user can simply touch the selection on the display .

Selecting Settings will bring up a Settings menu which allows the user to set various device and player settings and preferences. For example the Settings menu may allow the user to set such user preferences as system units e.g. yards or meters preferred display settings e.g. text size Pro Mode vs. Basic Mode screen brightness and contrast turning on off functions such as score keeping voice recognition shot tracking etc. and other device settings.

Selecting the Play Golf mode brings up a Golf Menu as shown in for initializing the GPS device for use during a round of golf. The course being played may be selected by selecting Select Course which may bring up a list of courses currently stored on the device . The list of courses shown can be determined based on the location of the device as determined by the GPS device for example a list of the two or three courses closest to the location of the device. Alternatively the list can be generated as a simple alphabetical list a list of favorites or other suitable listing method. The Golf Menu also allows the user to choose the starting hole for instance if a player is going to start on a hole other than the 1st hole such as starting on the 10th hole the back nine .

Once the course and starting hole have been selected GPS device determines the location of the device using the GPS chipset and then displays various golf hole information on the display. Turning to in this described embodiment the GPS device is configured to display the hole number the current time the device may include a clock function which can be provided by the microprocessor the GPS chipset or other electronic device the par for the hole a battery charge indicator and a GPS signal strength indicator . The GPS device further calculates the distance between the determined location of the device and the front middle and back of the green and displays the distance to the front the middle and the back of the green. As the device is moved the location of the device is continually updated and the distances such as the front middle and back of green displayed are updated accordingly.

The GPS device may also be configured to display a video flyover of the hole being played using a satellite or aerial photographic images of the hole. The GPS device may be configured to automatically display the flyover when the device detects that the GPS device is approaching or has reached a particular hole and or the user can select to display the flyover using the menu driven selections.

The golf GPS device also may display the distances from the location of the device to hazards and other features of interest as shown in . As an example the user may select the Hazard selection on the display shown in using the button to bring up the screen as shown in . The screen shown in displays the Hazard information in what is referred to herein as Basic Mode. Basic Mode displays the Hazard information in a list using icons or text and respective measured distances. The example of shows an icon for a right fairway bunker and the distance to the front side of the bunker is 248 yards and the distance to carry the bunker is 264 yards. Similarly the screen shows that the distance to the left greenside bunker is 455 yards to reach and 472 yards to carry. Instead of easy to read icons the features can alternatively be displayed using text such as Right Fairway Bunker or using an abbreviation such as RtFwyBnkr or the like.

As described above the GPS device may be configured to display the golf hole information in two distinct operating modes. The first mode is the Basic Mode which displays the distances and features in a text and or icon format. In the second mode referred to herein as the Pro Mode the distances and features are shown on the display on a graphical image of a relevant area also referred to as a viewport of the golf course. Examples of the Pro Mode showing the same information as the display shown in are shown in . The graphical image is preferably a photographic image generated from geo referenced e.g. coordinates are available for substantially any location on the image satellite or aerial digital photographs or geo referenced generated images. In Pro Mode the images of the features such as bunkers the green water hazards etc. are displayed in the photographic image and the distances are overlaid onto the image. A distance marker such as a red dot or other small but easily viewable symbol is placed on the feature at the exact point of measurement and the distance number is displayed in close proximity to the marker . Referring to the example of the right fairway bunker is 248 yards to reach and 264 yards to carry. This is exactly the same distance information shown in the display depicted in . Likewise as shown in the left greenside bunker is 455 yards to the front and 472 yards to the back.

As explained above the golf course data for both the Pro Mode and the Basic Mode is the same except that the golf course images are required for the Pro Mode. Thus if the Pro Mode course data has been loaded onto the device the device is configured such that it can toggle back and forth between the Pro Mode display and the Basic Mode display. One of the buttons such as button or see may be set up to toggle between the Pro Mode and the Basic Mode. However if only the Basic Mode course data has been loaded onto the device only the Basic Mode information may be displayed.

While viewing a list of features in Basic Mode a feature may be selected such as by scrolling through the list of features as shown in and the user may select to view the Pro Mode display of such feature simply by selecting the feature from the list and selecting the Pro Mode. Of course this feature would only be available if the Pro Mode course data has been loaded onto the device.

In order to optimize the viewability of the golf course images and displayed distances in the Pro Mode on a relatively small display the golf GPS device may include a automatic dynamic viewport generation method. The ability to miniaturize the size of the device is in many ways limited by the size of the display the major tradeoff being the desire to maximize the size of the display in order to be able to display as much information and images at an easily viewable scale while at the same time keeping the overall size of the device as small as possible. Intelligent generation of the of the images and numbers being displayed can help to display the most relevant section of the golf hole being played with distances displayed at a font size that is easily readable.

The viewport generation may include one or more methods to determine the displayed viewport. First the viewport generation method may include a method of determining the location and scale of the image of the golf course to be displayed based on the location of the device and therefore the location of play and the characteristics of the golf hole. For example the method of viewport generation method displays the section of the golf hole that will be most relevant to the golfer from the current location which may be a yardage range such as the fairway which is between 150 and 250 yards from the current location. As one specific example shows a viewport which might be displayed if the user is on the tee box of the displayed hole. The viewport displays the fairway and area surrounding the fairway from about 200 yards to 375 yards from the tee. The graphic image is automatically scaled i.e. the zoom level is set to display the relevant section of the hole so that it will fit on the display while maintaining viewability of relevant features e.g. the bunkers and distance to the fairway bunker. If the hole happens to be a par 3 or there is less than a certain distance e.g. 250 yards to the end of the hole then the viewport generation method may display the rest of the hole at a maximum zoom level that can fit the rest of the hole on the display see e.g. .

In another method of viewport generation the distances displayed may be adjusted to avoid overlapping. This method may also be referred to as collision management. At certain zoom levels for example very low zoom levels many features as displayed on the display may be very close together such that if all of the distances to these features are displayed the numbers will overlap and the readability of the information will be compromised. To avoid this the method will not display some of the distances so as to avoid any overlapping distances. The determination of the distances which will not be displayed so as to avoid overlap may be determined based on a hierarchy of the features a random determination a predetermination contained in the course data an algorithm which determines the most important distances some other criteria or a combination of these methods. In another aspect of this feature the method can be configured such that the user may select to display some or all of the non displayed distances in which case the previously displayed distances which overlap these non displayed distances are turned off. This selection may be a toggle so that the user can toggle back and forth between the distances displayed. If there are more than two distances which would conflict with each other if displayed simultaneously this user selection can advance through each of the non displayed distances until all of the distances can be displayed sequentially while the other conflicting distances are turned off.

The GPS device may also pan and zoom the displayed graphical images of the golf course with the distance overlays in Pro Mode. Referring to an example of a green view at a low zoom level is shown. The device is shown in Zoom mode which is indicated by the Zoom Pan toggle selection at the bottom left corner of the display . To zoom in on the image being displayed the up arrow on the directional pad is pushed as shown in . To zoom out the down arrow on the directional pad is pushed. The device may be configured such that holding down the up or down arrow will continue to zoom in or out respectively. To switch to Pan mode as shown in the button is pushed. The user can pan the displayed image by pressing the desired direction of pan on the directional pad . When zooming or panning the distances again remain overlaid at the correct locations next to their respective features or feature marker and at the pre set font size.

The golf GPS device may also be configured to measure the distance between locations on the golf course using the images displayed on the display. In order to measure a distance from the location of the device to a location as viewed on image on the display the Meas button is selected see to enter Measure mode as shown in . A cursor such as a and a marker such as the star shown in will appear at the current location of the device . The marker indicates the current location of the device and the cursor indicates the point being measured to. At the outset the marker and cursor are at the same location so the distance is displayed as 0 . The directional pad is then used to move the cursor to the location of interest. As the cursor is moved the distance between the cursor and the marker is calculated and displayed. As the cursor reaches the edge of the display in the direction of interest the display may automatically pan and or zoom as shown in . When the cursor is located at the location of interest the desired distance will be displayed as shown in the example of . In a similar manner the device may also be configured to measure the distance between two locations of interest selected on display. The user simply selects the Meas mode. The cursor is then positioned at a first point of interest the button is pushed to set the first point of interest and then the cursor is moved to a second point of interest. As in the example above the distance between selected first point of interest and the location of the cursor will be updated and displayed as the cursor is moved. The distance between a first location for the device and a second location of the device may also be measured by simply entering the Meas mode and then moving the device to a new location. As the device is moved the distance between the original location of the device and the new location of the device will be calculated and displayed. The pan and zoom functions may be utilized automatically or manually during any of the above described measurement modes in order to select a location of interest. In other words as the cursor reaches the edge of the viewing area the image will pan and or zoom out to display a portion of the image that was previously outside the viewing area.

In order to improve the accuracy of the device the golf GPS device also includes a calibration method which corrects for local errors in the GPS system. Because the golf course images utilized on the device are accurately geo referenced with global coordinates every discernable feature on the golf course images is a potential calibration point. To perform the calibration referring to the Calibrate GPS mode is selected. The use then locates a physical feature at the golf course which can also be fairly accurately identified and located on a graphical image of the same physical feature shown on the display of the GPS device . As examples the calibration feature may be a cart path intersection a distinctive shape of a bunker a manhole cover or a permanent tee marker. The GPS device is then placed at the physical feature and then the user places a cursor shown on the display of the device onto the image of the same physical feature. It may be helpful to zoom in to a high zoom level or even the maximum zoom level of the physical feature to improve the precision of the location of the cursor. The device then determines the offset between the apparent location measured by the GPS device and the location of the physical feature on the displayed image. The resultant offset is then used to correct all the GPS readings for the round of golf.

The golf GPS device of the present invention may also be configured to present a pre round preview of a golf course. The golf GPS device allows the user the load a desired golf course and then navigate around the course such as hole by hole. The preview may include a display of each hypothetical shot which might be take for each hole and or suggested strategy for playing each hole and or shot. For instance the preview mode may display pre loaded hypothetical shots which are automatically generated or contained within a golf course data package or the preview mode may use distances typical of the user s club distances or a distance as selected by the user for each shot to perform a shot by shot preview. A golf game may be implemented on the golf GPS device in which the user can play a game of golf on the desired golf course similar to other golf video games like Tiger Woods PGA Tour or Mario Golf in which the game will be played on the actual golf course images stored on the device .

Similar to the pre round preview feature the golf GPS device may be configured to track each shot taken by the user during a round of golf including the club used for each shot and other shot information such as quality and condition of lie degree of swing such as full shot half shot etc. quality of contact ball flight etc. . At each ball position during a round of golf the device is configured to receive an input of the shot information and store the shot information referenced to the location of the device . With this stored information the device may also be configured to play back a round of golf which was tracked using the device and or download the tracked round to a computer or other device for playback and or analysis.

In order to facilitate the entry of commands and information into the device the golf GPS device may include voice recognition navigation utilizing the voice recognition unit . Indeed voice recognition for inputting commands and information can be absolutely critical in enabling the timely use of many advanced features such as shot tracking and score keeping for example. Without voice recognition such advanced features would be far too cumbersome and time consuming on a golf course. Moreover voice recognition also enables the small form factor of the present invention because it avoids the need for a larger more complicated input device which might otherwise be necessary to quickly access and use certain advanced functions. For instance additional input buttons and or menus may be required to provide fast and easy use of advanced features which can have many options and or possible input data.

Several examples of the use of the voice recognition capability follow. The golf GPS device may be configured to allow a user to enter shot information while using the shot tracking mode using vocal inputs or to enter scores on each hole. For instance when entering a club selection for shot tracking the user simply enters the voice mode and speaks into the device seven iron or driver or whatever club is being used. For score keeping the device can be configured to recognize a player s name vocally input into the device and then the score for a hole for such player. Thus a user need only activate the voice recognition then state the player s name and score in order to input the score for a player e.g. John six Jerry four . The device determines the name and score from the voice input and then stores the data. The score data can then be displayed on the display . The voice recognition feature may also be used to audibly enter commands such as switching between Basic Mode and Pro Mode navigating through the devices menus changing the settings or any other command within the devices menus. Voice recognition facilitates the use of more advanced features such as shot tracking by reducing the amount of inputs that must be made using the input device. The use of voice recognition can also allow faster and simpler access to certain commands functions by bypassing menus that might normally be encountered when accessing such commands functions. For example a screen brightness setting might require going to the Settings menu and then a submenu for Display settings and then a selection of a Screen Brightness setting. Instead the device may be configured to recognize a voice command such as Screen Brightness spoken into the device in which case the device will skip directly to the Screen Brightness setting. Of course the device could be configured to directly perform any of the functions of the device using a voice command.

The golf GPS device of the present invention may include any one or more of the features and functions described above or any combination of such features and functions which are not by their nature mutually exclusive.

The viewport on the device can be considered to be in one of three different states normal zoom out and zoom in. In the zoom in state there are no collisions to avoid so there is no need for the collision avoidance function of the device in the zoom in state.

In the normal pan state there are some boundary conditions descriptions for handling which are shown in . If the coordinate position where the text is to be displayed is at the right edge of the screen such as shown in such that the entire text string length cannot be accommodated then this co ordinate has to be shifted to the left by amount of pixels so that the text can be completely displayed such as shown in . The first coordinate position to be plotted will not have any problem w.r.t text collision. This co ordinate position will be stored for future reference. When the next coordinate position is checked there is a check for text rectangle overlap of the current text and the previous text. If there is no overlap then display the current text at the same coordinate position. If there is overlap then check the direction in which there is minimum overlap x or y direction. Move the current text by a pixel distance the overlap 1 2 pixels in this minimum overlap direction. After the display this coordinate will again be stored.

If the collision occurs at the top right corner or bottom left corner or bottom right corner or at top left corner wherein it cannot accommodated the current text after new position calculation resolving the collision omits the text display and will only display the marker image in a different color for this overlay point. If the user pans in the appropriate direction the text will be displayed at the new position.

When moving to display the next text check for collisions with the previous texts that have already been displayed. This will be carried out for all text coming in for display.

In the zoom out state collision avoidance is also necessary. At the 20 zoom where in the entire golf image will be on the screen all the data points will be marked with a marker image in a different color and there will be no text display.

When moving to the next zoom level ex. 30 then show only some text and omit the rest for which collisions cannot be resolved these will be shown with the marker image in a different color. The above will be repeated as the user zooms out further such as 40 then to 50 etc.

A flow chart for method is shown in . At block start the method. At block initialization. At block get the pixel position x y of the marker. At block get the height and width of the marker. At block the data is stored. At block get the text details x y width . At block check and resolve collisions. At block end the method.

At block the device checks for the right boundary. At decision block an inquiry is made to determine if there is a collision. If yes then at block the device resolves for the right boundary. At block the device checks for the overlap of rectangles. If no at decision block then the device also checks for overlap of rectangles. At decision block an inquiry is made to determine if the rectangles overlap. At block the device checks for all the rectangles and resolve collisions. At block Resolved At block Return Failure. At block Check for the Upper Boundary. At block Exceed Upper Image boundary At block Resolve for the upper boundary. At block Resolved At block Return Failure. At block Check for the Lower Boundary. At block Exceeds Lower Image boundary At block Resolve for the lower boundary. At block Resolved At block Return Failure. At block Return Success.

The foregoing illustrated and described embodiments of the invention are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms and it should be understood that the invention generally as well as the specific embodiments described herein are not limited to the particular forms or methods disclosed but also cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims. The invention therefore should not be limited except to the following claims and their equivalents.

