---

title: Extrapolating tabular structure in a freeform document
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for extrapolating tabular structure to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document are described herein. The freeform document includes an unstructured canvas providing users the ability to place one or more elements in the canvas. A primary column is determined by the selection of at least one element in the freeform document. Further, one or more secondary columns in the freeform document corresponding to the primary column are determined. A tabular structure in the freeform document is extrapolated based on the determined primary column and the one or more secondary columns to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document, such as reordering, resizing and deleting the one or more elements, and inserting one or more new elements in the freeform document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887038&OS=08887038&RS=08887038
owner: Business Objects Software Limited
number: 08887038
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20101008
---
Embodiments generally relate to computer systems and more particularly to methods and systems for extrapolating tabular structure in a freeform document to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document.

One of the primary factors considered in the design and development of software applications is ease of use. Often the difference between a successful software application and an unsuccessful software application is decided by the user s experience when interacting with the software. One such competitive segment of software applications is Business Intelligence BI applications such as Crystal Reports by SAP . A report is a document that includes information automatically retrieved i.e. in response to computer executable instructions from a data source e.g. a database a data warehouse and the like where the information is processed structured and formatted in accordance with a report schema. The schema is the template of the report defines a base query and specifies the form in which the information should be presented. In creating and updating reports users are given the ability to include content or elements or objects on a freeform canvas document. Such freeform documents enhance the understanding of the business model by providing professional reports suited to individual and or business needs.

Freeform canvas or document does not force users to layout the elements in a predefined way. Therefore the freeform documents facilitate users to layout the elements as per their desire for spotting and analyzing business data. In general the freeform document facilitates providing historical current and predictive views of business operations in a user friendly way. However the freeform documents have one or more following limitations during modification or manipulation of the elements in the freeform documents.

Currently the freeform documents lack structural associations among elements as they do not force the user to layout the elements in the predefined way which makes creation and modification of tabular layouts tedious. Conversely enforcing a structure such as a table or a grid does not allow flexibility in layout of a strict structure. Therefore a method to provide structured interactions without enforcing structure in the freeform document i.e. to extrapolate tabular structure in a freeform document would be desirable to facilitate easy manipulation of elements in the freeform document.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for extrapolating tabular structure to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document are described herein. The freeform document includes an unstructured canvas providing users the ability to place one or more elements on the canvas. A primary column is determined by the selection of at least one element in the freeform document. Further one or more secondary columns in the freeform document corresponding to the primary column are determined. A tabular structure in the freeform document is extrapolated based on the determined primary column and the one or more secondary columns to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document such as reordering resizing and deleting the one or more elements and inserting one or more new elements in the freeform document.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for extrapolating a tabular structure in a freeform document to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document are described herein. Freeform document includes a canvas such as PowerPoint document by Microsoft an Illustrator document by Adobe an AutoCAD document and the like which provides a user with the ability to place contents or elements or objects on the canvas such that the elements can occupy any position within the canvas as desired by the user. The user refers to an agent a human a computer other mechanism or actors capable of creating and manipulating the freeform document. In other words the freeform document includes the canvas which does not force the elements to layout in a predefined way like a Microsoft Access document or define a finite set of locations to place the elements like a Microsoft Excel document. Example of freeform documents includes a Business Intelligence BI documents such as reports and dashboards. Examples of report include the documents created in a Crystal Reports and SAP Business Objects Web Intelligence . Examples of dashboards are created by Xcelsius SAP Crystal Dashboard Design and SAP Crystal Presentation Design . The degree to which a freeform canvas is freeform varies with embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments the canvas can be segmented into sections e.g. horizontal bands in the report a tab in the dashboard and the like. In some embodiments the sections are placed freeform. In some embodiments the formatting within the section the layout is freeform.

The tabular structure in the freeform document is extrapolated to manipulate the elements in the freeform document such as to reorder the elements resize the elements delete the elements insert new elements and the like. In one embodiment the tabular structure is extrapolated based on an element selected by the user in the freeform document. A primary column is determined for the selected element in a freeform document. Further one or more secondary columns in the freeform document corresponding to the primary column are determined. Further the tabular structure in the freeform document is extrapolated based on the determined primary column and the one or more secondary columns to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document. In addition one or more spanning elements which span a plurality of columns including the primary column and the secondary columns in the freeform document are identified to extrapolate the tabular structure in the freeform document.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. As well while certain methods described with separately delineated steps these should not be construed as necessarily order dependent or being separate in their performance.

At step one or more secondary columns in the freeform document corresponding to the primary column are determined. In one embodiment the secondary columns are determined by identifying a top border or a bottom border for each of the elements in the primary column. Further the one or more additional elements with the identified top border or the bottom border in the freeform document are identified. Furthermore the secondary column for each of the identified additional elements is determined by identifying a left side border and a right side border of each of the identified additional elements. The determined secondary columns may include duplicates of the secondary columns as one or more additional elements may include same secondary column. Therefore the duplicate secondary columns from the determined secondary columns are removed.

At step the tabular structure in the freeform document is extrapolated based on the determined primary column as in step and the one or more secondary columns as in step to facilitate manipulation of elements in the freeform document. In addition one or more spanning elements in the freeform document corresponding to the primary column and the secondary columns are determined. The spanning elements are elements that span horizontally across a plurality of columns including the primary column and the secondary columns. In one embodiment a computer display displaying the freeform document is updated to include the extrapolated tabular structure. The manipulation of elements may include reordering resizing and deleting the elements in the freeform document and also to include one or more new elements.

The number of processing steps varies with embodiments of the invention. In an embodiment further processing operations can be included. In an embodiment at step after an element has been selected a vertical search is made for a primary column. Then in step a horizontal search is made for one or more secondary columns. This search includes another vertical search. In some embodiments a further horizontal search is made. In some embodiments a further vertical search is made. In some embodiments both are done. In an embodiment in step a horizontal and vertical search is made for primary and secondary columns. Extrapolating the tabular structure is illustrated with an example in A to C and . Further manipulation of elements in the freeform document is described in greater detail in .

In one embodiment one or more spanning elements for example an element J A in the freeform document corresponding to the determined primary column and the secondary columns and is identified. The spanning element J A spans a plurality of columns including the primary column and the secondary columns e.g. the element J A corresponds to the primary column and the secondary columns and to extrapolate tabular structure in the freeform document. Similarly the tabular structure is extrapolated corresponding to any selected elements e.g. A A to J A in the freeform document .

However in one embodiments if element B is selected four columns will be determined in the extrapolated tabular structure. The first column will include element B. This will be the primary column. The second column will include B. This will be a secondary column. Associated with these will be spanning objects A and C. The third column will include elements D E and F. This will be a secondary column. The fourth column will include elements G H and I. This will be a secondary column. Associated with all four columns is a spanning element J. In an embodiment if elements E or H were selected then substantially the same result will occur. Again with changes in the designation primary and secondary column status as appropriate.

In one embodiment the elements in the unstructured canvas can be manipulated by extrapolating a tabular structure as described in based on a selected element in the freeform document . Manipulating the elements in the freeform document can include reordering described with an example in resizing described with an example in and deleting the elements in the freeform document . Further manipulating the elements in the freeform document includes inserting described with an example in one or more new elements in the freeform document .

In one exemplary embodiment the user can select and drag a desired column e.g. a column as shown by annotation drag in . Further the user can release the desired column as shown by annotation release at a desired location on the freeform document as shown in . Therefore the user is provided with the option of manipulating the elements in the freeform document by reordering the elements in the freeform document .

In one exemplary embodiment the user can drag the edge of a desired column e.g. a column as shown by annotation hold and drag to resize the column as shown in . Further the user can release at a desired location as shown by annotation release on the freeform document as shown in without disturbing the other elements in the freeform document that are not part of the extrapolated tabular structure. Therefore the user is provided with the option of manipulating the elements in the freeform document by resizing the elements. Similarly in one exemplary embodiment the desired column can be deleted without disturbing other elements in the freeform document that are not part of the extrapolated tabular structure.

In another exemplary embodiment when an element on the canvas is selected the guideline system that is displayed to the user will be based on the element that is already selected. As the user drags over the canvas the width of the element resizes dynamically to match the column currently being hovered over.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

