---

title: Spatial and temporal coherence measurement system
abstract: A system for determining spatial coherence, temporal coherence or both of an optical signal includes a fiber bundle containing optical fibers. Optical fiber inputs are arranged in proximate groups having the same number of fibers. The groups can each receive a portion of the optical signal. Each fiber in the group has a gross length that differs from the other fibers, but each group has the same set of different gross lengths. The fibers are joined to a lens which spreads the optical signal and causes interference between portions of the signal. This interference is detected at a detector. A computer joined to the detector can measure spatial and temporal coherence from the interference. Other embodiments feature multiple detectors and reflection along the bundle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08456622&OS=08456622&RS=08456622
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08456622
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This is a test apparatus and method for a laser that helps determine spatial coherence temporal coherence and modeling of noisy environments.

Most applications of lasers rely on the laser light beam having good spatial and temporal coherence. Spatial coherence means that the laser beam relative amplitude and phase at different lateral to the beam propagation direction positions stays constant over time. Temporal coherence means that the beam amplitude and phase at a lateral position doesn t vary with time. The optical field generated by a coherent beam has a simple structure such as a plane or spherical wavefront and a deterministic amplitude and phase profile with minimal time variation. Temporal coherence is measured in an interferometer which interferes a light beam with a copy of itself delayed in time. Measurement of the time averaged intensity of the interfered light beam gives the temporal coherence. Spatial coherence is measured by interfering two portions of a light beam at different lateral positions. This can be measured by cross correlation of portions of the light beam separated by a distance. There is a need for a simple tool that can diagnose temporal and spatial incoherence of a laser s output.

Lasers operating outside laboratories are often in environments that cause scattering of the originally coherent beam. This can include varying environmental gas and liquid densities resulting from varying environmental temperatures and pressures. Systems that work in controlled conditions may not work when subjected to actual working conditions. Thus there is a need for laboratory tool that can simulate arbitrary backscatter of an optical signal and thus simulate laser operation under field conditions. Such a system would aid in the design of practical laser systems and would thus be most welcome also.

A first object of the invention is to permit detection of changes in the temporal coherence of an optical signal.

In accordance with these and other objects made apparent hereinafter the invention concerns a system for determining spatial coherence temporal coherence or both of an optical signal. The system includes a fiber bundle containing a number of optical fibers. Input ends of the optical fibers are arranged in proximate groups having the same number of optical fibers. The proximate groups are each capable of receiving a portion of the optical signal. Each optical fiber in the group has a gross length that differs from at least one other fiber in the group. Each proximate group has fibers having the same set of gross different lengths. An output of the fiber bundle is joined to a lens which spreads the received optical signal and causes interference between portions of the signal. The lens can be eliminated if the far field diffraction pattern is observed. A detector is provided for detecting this interference. A computer can be joined to the detector for measuring spatial and temporal coherence from the detected interference. Other embodiments feature one or more detectors and reflection at the end of the fiber optic bundle.

These and other objects are further understood from the following detailed description of particular embodiments of the invention. It is understood however that the invention is capable of extended application beyond the precise details of these embodiments. Changes and modifications can be made to the embodiments that do not affect the spirit of the invention nor exceed its scope as expressed in the appended claims.

With reference to the drawing figures wherein like numbers indicate like parts throughout the several views shows an optical system in which a first fiber optic bundle A contains a number of optical fibers. First bundle A has a connector which receives a laser s output so as to launch the output into the bundle A. The diameter of bundle A is preferably approximately the same size as the diameter of laser beam so that spatial variations in light across the face of fiber bundle A will be fully replicated in the signals launched into the optical fibers of bundle A. First bundle A is joined to a fiber optic delay which subjects the fibers of the first bundle to differing time delays as will be discussed further in the ensuing text. In one embodiment delay output is joined to a second fiber optic bundle B for transporting the variably delayed light to additional components. In other embodiments delay could be joined directly to the additional components.

In any case delay output is provided at a connector where optical signals are provided to a lens . Lens combines optical signals as an interference beam projected onto detector . The active surface of detector is located at the back focal plane of lens so as to cause the outputs of the individual optical fibers to interfere on the active surface of detector forming an interference pattern thereon. provides a sample of the interference pattern. Detector detects this pattern in pixel form and transmits it to a processor . Processor is preferably a computer capable of recording the pixel data processing the pixel data or both.

The value of having multiple optical fibers grouped in multiple groups and having the fibers in each sub group collected at input is that the laser s output is spatially sampled in space over the same gross path delays. Ensemble averaging of the interference pattern correlations can then be achieved by using temperature changes induced by subjecting fiber optic delay to heating or by otherwise applying random stresses to the fibers. This can be done by passing a heat gun such as a hair dryer over delay in a random fashion. Generally more fibers in each group allows sampling larger path length differences. This makes the interference pattern more sensitive to variations in frequency and phase fluctuations. The more groups the more resolution the system has for spatial distortions. The seven times seven configuration of has the dual advantages of providing a significant number of groups and fibers in a geometrical configuration that is compact and thus readily packable as a fiber bundle. In principle one can operate the system with as little as two fibers which would have poor temporal and spatial resolution or thousands which would be unwieldy. One can advantageously pack the open spaces in bundles A and B with epoxy or dead optical fibers ones that carry no signal provided that the packing fibers do not optically couple to any of the forty nine active fibers.

Fiber optic delay is joined to each fiber in bundle A and comprises a plurality of optical fibers coiled in loops for compact packaging. These loops can be loose or wound on a mandrel. Many different constructions exist for this device. Each fiber of a geometric group is provided to a loop having a length differing from at least one other fiber in the group however all the groups are subjected to the same set of delays. For example one fiber could be subjected to a one loop delay another to a two loop delay a third to a three loop delay and so on. For most applications each fiber of a geometric group should be subjected to a different gross delay. Light in each of the optical fibers of bundle A should have the phases upstream that are determined by the optical path lengths of the fibers. While the gross delays of the fibers are determined by the design fiber length the phase shifts on the scale of 0 360 degrees depend on fine differences of the fiber lengths and index of refraction changes caused by fiber stresses and fiber temperature variations.

Detector can advantageously be a two dimensional planar array of photomultipliers or high speed photodiodes which are fast devices that permit rapid data handling. The interference pattern on detector will be defined by the phase differences imposed by fiber optic delay on the optical fibers in bundle A. The interference pattern depends on the spatial frequency and phase characteristics of the optical signal entering the fiber bundle A at connector . provides an interference pattern on pixels of detector as an example. Darker regions such as in indicate a greater reception of light. An actual detector interference pattern may feature many more pixels . The interference pattern is a common speckle pattern in which the speckled patches result from constructive more filled areas such as and destructive less filled areas such as interference of output from optical fibers. The size of individual pixels should be significantly smaller than speckle size to adequately sample the spatial variations of the interference pattern illuminating detector .

By comparing the interference pattern at at different times one can determine if the pattern is changing with time or not and thus whether the temporal or spatial characteristics of the laser output has changed over time. One can infer such change in any known manner that compares interference patterns detected at different times. An especially advantageous way to do so is as follows 

When a laser beam provides pulses to input at different times detector detects the interference patterns produced by the laser. The computer can perform a spatial correlation between the interference patterns generated by the two pulses. The normalized magnitude squared of the cross correlation between the two images will be unity if the amplitude and spatial phase of the field across the face of the fiber bundle does not vary from pulse to pulse. This result can be further averaged over many pulse pairs. This cross correlation reduces from maximum to the extent that the pulses are temporally incoherent over the lateral extent of the light that illuminates the fiber bundle. Lower scores for spatial correlation indicate that the beam lacks spatial coherence.

The correlation between the two speckle patterns will be reduced from unity in proportion to the product of the normalized magnitude squared of the spatial correlation of the two pulse complex field amplitudes and the cross correlation between the two time energy spectra evaluated at the frequency difference between the two pulses. The effects of spatial variation can be removed in several ways. One can remove the effects of spatial variation by increasing the size of the input beam so that the fiber bundle A samples only a small portion of the input beam . With the effects of spatial variation removed changes in the interference pattern are due solely to temporal changes at the region of beam sampled by the fiber bundle input . This permits computer to identify temporal coherence issues.

The optical fibers should be well cleaved at both the input end and output end to have a very regular flat surface so that laser light launches into the individual fibers efficiently and without variations in amplitude introduced by poorly trimmed fiber terminations. The terminations of fibers at both input and output should be highly polished to prevent optical scattering. As mentioned above the orientation of the fibers at input connector and output connector must remain fixed during operation. Otherwise the diffraction pattern on detector will vary for reasons unconnected with laser performance. Because the system operates by comparing sequential outputs detected over time it is not critical that the location of fibers in the various sub groups be the same save that fibers of the same length in adjacent sub groups should not be adjacent to one another so as to better sample the space time structure of the light beam. And as above all fibers of each group should be together and adjacent one another at input to permit good spatial resolution.

In addition to monitoring laser performance the system of can simulate operation of a laser in a scattering medium. In such a medium laser light encounters various localized scatters along its trajectory causing multiple reflections that arrive back at the origin spaced apart in time in accordance with the respective distances of scatterers. The multiple delay lines of this system can simulate returns from a corresponding number of scatterers. The speckle pattern on detector is characteristic of the spatial distribution of light entering a system sensor. One can also simulate movement of the scatters by passing a heat gun over delay with random position changes of the heat gun causing random changes in the phases of the fiber outputs or by applying random stresses to the fibers emulating random movements of scatterers.

A seven group seven fiber per group optical fiber bundle of the kind above described has been fabricated and successfully operated. The diameter and number of fiber loops is selected to give a delay that is combined with the total fiber length to give a total required delay. For ease of use fiber number corresponds to the number of loops. Loops lengths and delay times are shown in Table 1 below. This embodiment also uses a laser pulse duration of 10 ns a fiber delay length increment of 0.4 m and a loop diameter of approximately 0.127 m.

The delay times in the fibers and input pulse duration were selected so that there was some time overlap for the light exiting the different fibers. Only the tips of the fibers were actually tightly bundled together and provided with connectors. The optical fibers were of Nufern 460 HP mode fiber which are single mode above 500 nm wavelength input. In testing a green laser was used as the optical input.

The invention has been described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized however that obvious modifications to these embodiments may occur to those with skill in this art. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be discerned from reference to the appended claims wherein 

