---

title: System and method for producing custom merchandise from a virtual environment
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for producing merchandise for a user based upon a character within a virtual environment, on request of the user, by retrieving character data representing a player character within a game and converting the character data into merchandise characteristics. Merchandise is manufactured based, at least in part, on the merchandise characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019654&OS=08019654&RS=08019654
owner: 
number: 08019654
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100719
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 056 902 which was filed on Feb. 11 2005 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 544 909 which was filed on Feb. 12 2004 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 056 902 will issue on Jul. 20 2010 bearing U.S. Pat. No. 7 761 339.

The invention relates to systems and methods for producing merchandise from a virtual environment and more particularly to a system and method for producing customized merchandise based upon the appearance attributes and experiences of characters and items they have acquired within the virtual environment of a computer or console game.

Presently personal computer and console based e.g. Sony s Playstation Microsoft s XBOX and Nintendo s Gamecube games allow individuals and or groups of individuals to explore and interact with a virtual environment. The virtual environments presented in these games are highly detailed and typically present a science fiction fantasy or historical milieu in which players may interact with the environment computer controlled entities and other player controlled entities as part of an entertainment simulation of an alternate reality.

Computer gaming also known as electronic gaming began as an individual single player experience. Soon thereafter multiplayer games were created allowing more than one player to play the same game at the same time either cooperatively to achieve a common goal as a competition against one another or a mixture of both.

As computers became more powerful and network connectivity including the Internet became more prevalent the complexity of computer games and the number of simultaneous players increased. Today games such as City of Heroes Everquest Star Wars Galaxies World of Warcraft Final Fantasy XI and Lineage involve hundreds of thousands of players. These games allow groups of thousands of people to share a virtual experience together by allowing the individual players within the group to interact with each other and the environment of a persistent or semi persistent virtual world also referred to as the game world . These types of games have become known as Massively Multiplayer Online Games MMOG s or Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game s MMORPG s although other variations of the name also exist.

Part of the attraction of an MMORPG at least for some players is the ability to create alternate personas for themselves. Often players create one or more characters and have the ability to customize their characters appearance physical and mental attributes and direct the development of the character through decisions made within the virtual environment. For example a player s character grows and develops over time as it explores and interacts with the environment and other characters within the game world.

For example within a fantasy themed MMORPG a player typically can choose to play any of several races such as Elves Dwarves Humans or Ogres. The majority of MMORPGs also allows the player to allocate various physical and mental attributes e.g. strength dexterity constitution intelligence wisdom charisma etc. which in turn determines the character s abilities within the virtual environment. A player can further customize his or her character by selecting gender facial appearance body type hair color styles skin tone and clothing. The character may be further modified through the selection of weapons equipment and other accessories. Over time a character s actions within the environment may also affect the character s attributes and appearance. For example other genera of MMORPGs may use different non humanoid representations of the player s presence within the virtual environment.

In one instance a science fiction themed MMORPG may provide the player with the ability to customize a spaceship or other vehicle instead of or in addition to a humanoid character used in the fantasy setting. Other MMORPGs may provide the player with the ability to customize various entities within the game world including characters equipment and even aspects of the environment itself i.e. the ability for a player to build his or her own castle or space station within a game world .

As a player proceeds within the game the player may attain additional customization such as new abilities skills experience points items trophies clothes collectibles or other indicators of advancement or time spent within the virtual environment game world. Even the effects of aging scars or behavior may be reflected in the character s appearance.

To play a MMORPG a player installs a computer program Game Client and connects to a network of computers Game System and other players do the same. For various reasons including to reduce the risk of cheating and to control the intellectual property within an MMORPG the Game Client often employs the use of security algorithms encryption and End User Licenses that restrict how a player can interact with the Game Client and Game System. Additionally in most instances players run their game clients on hardware that is not capable of fully realizing the graphical nature of the Game System. As a further protection against cheating the data representing a player s character or other entities under the player s control is typically stored on the Game System rather than on the Game Client. While there are various business models for recouping the costs of developing a MMORPG and operating the Game System players are typically charged a fixed amount to purchase the Game Client software and then pay a monthly fee for access to the Game System.

At present there are no systems or methods known to the inventor for players to obtain customized merchandise based upon their characters and experiences within the virtual game world.

It is therefore desirable to have a system and method which can produce various customized merchandise based upon the appearance attributes and experiences of a player character within a virtual environment also referred to as the game world . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a system and method are employed for generating customized merchandise based upon an entity a player s character within a virtual environment including receiving at least one data element from a data set wherein the data set contains a plurality of data elements defining an entity within a virtual environment. The data element is then translated into at least one merchandise characteristic. Finally at least one merchandise characteristic is used to customize merchandise.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a system and method are employed to produce customized merchandise for a user also referred to as a player based upon a character within a game environment by receiving character data representing a character within a virtual environment and converting the character data into merchandise attributes. The merchandise attributes are then used to create instructions for producing an item of customized merchandise. The system may then produce the merchandise locally or transmit the instructions to another system to manufacture the merchandise. Depending upon the item the manufacturing instruction may be transmitted to the user requesting the item. For example a user may wish to have a high resolution image or video well in excess of the models used for the actual game of his or her character within the game environment. In the inventive system the user can take a snapshot of his her character within the virtual environment the system then uses the character data and game data to determine the character s position within the environment the clothing weapons and equipment the character is using and information about the surrounding environment including the presence of any environmental effects spells monsters or other characters . The system could then use this information in combination with the high resolution models used to develop the game but which are impractical for use in the game itself in order to generate a high resolution image or video of the player s character within the environment. In the case of a high resolution image the image may be printed and the final product sent to the user. Alternatively the high resolution image or video file could be sent to the user for display of the computer screen or to be printed out on the user s own printer.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention the transformation of character attributes into merchandise characteristics may include the calculation of new character statistics for use in at least one alternative game system. In one embodiment character data from a computer role playing game is used to generate a customized collectible trading card. The collectible trading card can include statistics for use in a collectible trading card game e.g. Magic the Gathering . It is also within the scope of the invention to render other game components such as miniatures statistic cards and player record sheets.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the inventive system can convert the player character record from a first data format to a second data format thereby allowing the player to use a character developed in one virtual environment to be used in another. For example this would allow a player to transport a character developed in a MMORPG to a single player game other MMORPG including from one platform to another or to a pen and paper game system.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method for generating merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising receiving at least one data element from a data set by at least one processor wherein the data set contains a plurality of data elements defining attributes of an entity within a virtual environment translating the at least one data element into at least one merchandise characteristic by at least one processor and manufacturing electronic merchandise based at least in part on the at least one merchandise characteristic. The electronic merchandise may be chosen from the group consisting of an image file a movie file a Web site a video game a computer program a translated character record and a screensaver for example. The entity may comprise a character from a game conducted in the virtual environment. At least one attribute of the character may change during play of the game resulting in at least one changed data element and the method may then comprise translating the at least one changed data element into the at least one merchandise characteristic by the at least one processor and receiving a request for the electronic merchandise including the at least one changed data element from a player of the game.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a system for generating merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising an interface to receive at least one data element from a data set wherein the data set contains a plurality of data elements defining a character within a virtual environment and a processor. The processor is configured to translate the at least one data element into at least one merchandise characteristic and cause manufacture of electronic merchandise based at least in part on the merchandise characteristic.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a system for generating merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising means for receiving at least one data element from a data set by at least one processor wherein the data set contains a plurality of data elements defining attributes of an entity within a virtual environment means for translating the at least one data element into at least one merchandise characteristic by at least one processor and means for causing manufacture of merchandise based at least in part on the at least one merchandise characteristic.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a system for generating merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising an interface to receive at least one data element from a data set wherein the data set contains a plurality of data elements defining an entity within a virtual environment and a processor. The processor is configured to translate the at least one data element into at least one merchandise characteristic and cause manufacture of merchandise based at least in part on the merchandise characteristic. The system may further comprise a fabrication device to manufacture the merchandise such as a printer milling machinery laser cutting machinery water jet machinery sewing machinery stitching machinery and embroidery machinery. The system may further comprise a database storing templates for at least one item of merchandise and the processor may be configured to retrieve the template for the selected item of merchandise based at least in part on the selected item and cause manufacture the item based at least in part on the retrieved template.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method for generating merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising creating a game in a virtual environment by a first processor for participation by at least one player via at least one second processor coupled to a network. The method further comprises processing instructions from the at least one second processor to control an entity in the virtual environment by the first processor and receiving a request for an item of manufacture from the second processor by the first processor via a network. The item of manufacture is based at least in part on the entity. The request is forwarded by the first processor via a network to a third processor separate from the first and second processors to cause manufacture of the requested item of merchandise.

In accordance with another embodiment a method for generating customized merchandise based upon an entity within a virtual environment is disclosed comprising playing a game in a virtual environment by a first processor and controlling an entity in the virtual environment by the first processor while playing the game. The method further comprises sending a request for manufacture of an item of merchandise based at least in part on the entity in the virtual environment by the first processor via a network to a second processor different from the first processor wherein the second processor causes manufacture of the item.

As will be appreciated by the foregoing the present invention provides a system and method for producing a customized merchandise including but not limited to collectible trading cards action figures posters books postcards and game components for games not rooted in a virtual environment. The customized merchandise will be based upon some element of the player s character or equipment so as to make it personal to that player. The customized merchandise may be purchased within the virtual environment of the game itself or through an external interface. It will also be understood by one skilled in the art that the inventive system may also be applied to other types of multiplayer games such as first person shooters and simulations as well as single player games.

The invention is directed to systems and methods for producing customized merchandise based upon the attributes of a user s virtual entity also referred to as a player s character within a virtual environment a game world . The customized merchandise produced by the present invention may be either tangible e.g. trading cards posters miniatures action figures books patches t shirts stickers or intangible e.g. image and movie files Web sites translated character records .

With reference to when a person begins to enter a game for the first time the player is presented with an interface to create and customize a character. The character the player creates is a personalized representation the player will use to play the game. In multiplayer games other players can recognize different characters as representing different players since each character has been customized by its respective owner. Similar interfaces are also used in single player games as well.

In this example the player has decided on the name Bobby for his character and typed it into name field . In a MMORPG character names are usually unique within a game and filtered to be consistent with the policies of the game. Examples of filters include restrictions on the use of profanity slang trademarks and other undesirable text.

The tabbed interface shows the player customizing the appearance of their character on Appearance tab . The interface also shows that attributes and skills related to the character can be customized through selecting the appropriate tab e.g. Attributes tab Skills tab however neither of these tabs is detailed here.

Within Appearance tab the player has specified the character s gender and adjusted the character s facial features including facial style skin color eye color and hair color to the player s liking. All of the selected appearance characteristics are stored as data elements within a character record and are used to generate the virtual representation of the player within the virtual environment of the game. As the player adjusts these parameters a preview of the character is provided within a window on the GUI. This allows the player to see the influence that the different parameters have on the character in real time. The preview greatly enhances the player s ability to customize the character. Many players spend a great deal of time customizing the appearance of their character before entering the game. Different games have different types of characters and have different levels of customizability. Some games do not use humanoid characters to represent players. For example in a science fiction game the player s character may be a spaceship. In such a game the player usually can select different ships alter a ship s design and change the markings on a ship they have selected.

While some characteristics affect the appearance of a character others are statistical measurements of a character s physical and mental abilities and skills. Additionally some games may not allow graphical customizations but instead provide for differentiation of player characters through the development of these nonappearance related characteristics or characteristics that a character acquires at the start of or during the course of playing the game. A few examples of such defining statistics and characteristics include name species color class ranks uniform allegiances group affiliation team membership strength number of kills professions point totals and levels. illustrates some of these statistics and characteristics.

In reference to the player maintains an inventory for the player s character in which clothes armor weapons and other accessories are collected. The inventory is accessed through an interface such as the one shown. As the character progresses through the game it has access to higher level gear which is more powerful and effective within the game. The player can review items within the player s inventory and equip the character with an item appropriate to the current game situation. The GUI provided in shows a Paper doll view of the character where items can be dragged from the inventory on the left to the preview window on the right. As items in this case swords through are selected they will appear either on or next to the character. For example character is currently not wearing clothes. These may be added however from the Clothes tab . In a similar fashion armor and accessories such as a cape could be added by accessing Armor tab or Accessories tab respectively. Management of a character s inventory is a common game mechanic leading to many hours of game play. Players collect trade buy and fight over items to add to their inventory. Games in different genres such as science fiction can incorporate items specific to that genre. For example laser guns may be substituted in place of swords as the standard weapon used by characters within a science fiction type game. The data describing clothing and other equipment or gear is also stored in the character record.

Many games allow players to craft new items to be bought and sold. For example a player that creates a character that is skilled in blacksmithing and forging could have his or her character craft new swords provided the character had the raw materials and furnace or blacksmith shop within the game to do so. As these items are created data describing the item is added to the character record. Some games also allow the users to import customized graphics into a game for use as skins for the polygonal models used on their characters and their equipment as well as two dimensional art used for insignia to denote membership within an organization.

With reference to as a player plays a game the player s character collects experience acquires new skills advances within the game world and forms affiliations. This information is available for review by the player to help gauge the progress in the game and to plan for future advancement. The information GUI shown in illustrates a character and the various statistics and facts about that character. For example referring to the information provided under General Statistics tab the character has reached the level and has 2194 points. The player owner of this character needs his character to get 406 more points to reach the next level. In addition this character is a member of the guild Golden Heroes. A guild is a group of players that have decided to cooperate with each other in a formal manner. By playing in a group the members of the group are able to tackle high level monsters or obstacles together that would be difficult or impossible for a single player to attempt on its own. Games often encourage group play by sharing experience points among all members of the group whenever a member of the group gains experience. Games benefit from group play because group play encourages building of communities within the game and aids in retaining players Players also sometimes called subscribers when for example subscription fees are imposed are more likely to continue playing the game and paying subscription fees if they have peers colleagues that are still playing the game. The present invention allows for certain customized merchandise to be made available only to members of a predefined group. Merchandise may be customized to prominently feature logos and or insignia of a specific clan guild party or other organization within a game and only be made available to players who have characters that are members of that organization. As part of the process of ordering merchandise the inventive system may check and see if the user has a character which qualifies him to purchase an item.

Advancements tab enables players to view a GUI that identifies various requirements required to reach the next level of a game. For example to reach a subsequent game level a predetermined number of points may be required. In another instance a predetermined level of health strength and or stamina may be required or certain weapon skills must be attained or a predetermined number of enemies must be killed.

Different games refer to groups of players by using different names depending on the genre and fiction of the game some examples of different terms for groups include guild clan team company player association corporation and club.

Different games will also collect and maintain different statistics about a player s character. For example in a science fiction themed game the skill of the character with weapons may relate to laser guns and rifles as opposed to daggers and swords as shown in . Other attributes of the character could also be tracked such as the profession and the proficiency of the character at the profession. For example a player could teach his or her character to become a master blacksmith or intermediate bounty hunter or apprentice wizard and have this statistic displayed on the character information GUI.

With reference to a fully equipped player controlled character the knight fights an opponent the dragon . Progress meters at the top of the illustration provide feedback to the player allowing the player to monitor the battle and take appropriate action. Most games are competitive in nature where individual players will compete against each other or against nonplayer controlled characters. The term Player versus Player abbreviated PvP is used to describe the case where players fight each other and Player versus Environment abbreviated PvE is used to describe the case where players do not fight each other but instead fight opponents controlled by the game. Games are available that mix PvP and PvE and games are also available that are more cooperative than competitive.

In the example depicted the player represented by knight is engaged in PvE conflict with dragon . As knight battles dragon the player s character is gaining experience points and advancing within the game. By the nature of being a competitive game the player is also risking the death of his character or at least the loss of some attributes such as experience points or some other measure of advancement should the dragon be victorious. Since attributes or statistics related to the character are affected by the player s actions the player s character can be considered customized by the actions of the player by way of the decisions the player made in playing the character within the game.

As players play the game with their characters they often become emotionally invested with the game and specifically with their respective character s . Some players even write stories about their character s and role play the stories inside the game. The GUI of provides an interface to allow a player to order merchandise based on the representation of the player s character within the game.

In the example illustrated by a player has accessed a GUI within the game client that allows ordering among various merchandise choices 510 e.g. a collectible trading card or a wall poster depicting the player s character. Options are available to further customize the item being ordered. In the case of ordering the collectible trading card the options include the pose the character should have when the card is printed the color of the card itself the color of the background behind the character on the card and the quantity of cards to order.

A preview of what the ordered item will look like is provided on the right hand side of the interface. In the case of the collectible trading card the player can choose to examine either the front or the back. The back of the trading card may contain statistics derived from the player s character at the time the order is placed. The front of the card depicts the player s character equipped with the clothes armor weapons and accessories the character currently is equipped with in the game.

When the order is placed charges may be added to the player s account to be billed at the next installment e.g. monthly or charges could be paid immediately via credit card or some other means. While this example illustrates the ability to purchase individual types of merchandise a la carte style it should be inferred that multiple differing merchandise items could be ordered through the use of a shopping cart system.

Additional customized merchandise based on the customized representation of the player s character could also be made available and is not limited to collectible trading cards or wall posters . Some examples of other merchandise include t shirt trophy calendar cup flag banner jacket bumper sticker stickpin badge hat stationery pen plaque action figure doll bust model sculpture mask or even including clothing and other accessories resembling those of the customized character. Some examples of electronic merchandise that may be purchased include an interactive Web site devoted to the character providing a useful entertainment and information venue for the player and associates of the player to gather a high quality video of the character performing a specific adventure or being the star of a short movie a screensaver with the character or virtual locations the character has seen a stand alone video game such as a retro cell phone game or a software program that uses the character or character data in an interesting way such as an Instant Messaging client that uses the character s facial expressions in place of emoticons or a newsreader that details events that happen to the character within the originating game . Additionally the system could provide players with a method of converting a character record from one game system to another.

While depicts an interface within a game client it should be noted that the defining characteristic of the interface is not that it is embedded within the game client but that it is a means to order customized merchandise based on the customized representation of a player s character within a game. As such analogous functionality could be provided through other interfaces such as 

a An in game mechanism where a player directs his or her customized character into a structure within the game where a nonplayer character greets the player and through a series of dialog interchanges between the player controlled character and the nonplayer character an order is placed for customized merchandise based on the customized representation of the player s character.

b An external interface such as a Web site where a player may visit and enter specific information allowing the Web site to either access the player s character information or recreating the player s character information and allowing the player to place an order for customized merchandise based on the customized representation of the player s character.

c A third party program installed on the player s computer that either accesses the player s character information or recreates the player s character information and allows the player to place an order for customized merchandise based on the customized representation of the player s character.

d An application programming interface otherwise known as an API that permits the automated ordering of customized merchandise based on a player s customized representation of the player s character when a predetermined or dynamic condition is met. An example of one such condition is the player reaching a certain rank level or milestone within the game and the game automatically ordering and sending to the player the merchandise at no cost to the player as a reward for dedication in playing the game and to memorialize the significant accomplishment of the player.

In this example the player holds two pieces of customized merchandise. In his right hand he holds an action figure doll with the likeness of his customized character. In his left hand he holds the collectible trading card as he would have customized and ordered using the GUI depicted in . shows the front detail of the collectible trading card that the player ordered in . shows the back detail of the collectible trading card that the player ordered in .

The front of the trading card is as was presented in the merchandise preview window of . The back of the trading card contains statistics from the game as was seen in however not all the statistics from the GUI presented in is included on the back of the trading card while additional information not available from the character information GUI of is included. For example the information related to the number of points the character currently has and needs to reach the next level is missing and the Character Life Facts section has been added.

As part of the data extraction process shown in only the relevant data needed to create the merchandise was extracted from the game system. Extra data was ignored while other data that was needed was acquired. The data extracted is based upon the item requested.

The additional information presented on the back of the card can serve many purposes including incentive for a player to order merchandise serial and lot numbers for tracking and authentication of collectible merchandise as shown in use in conversion of game statistics for other games or mediums and information appropriate for the merchandise that may not have been appropriate redundant or simply unnecessary to include within the original game.

In reference to multiple game clients through N connect to the Internet and connect to the game server to play a multiplayer game. The game clients through N exchange messages through the Internet with the game server . The same arrangements of game clients can support an alternate configuration where game clients exchange messages with each other through the Internet and bypass the game server to operate in a peer to peer manner.

When a player desires to purchase customized merchandise based on their customized character in the game several avenues of transmitting that desire to the appropriate fulfillment server are available.

In one scenario the player s game client for example client transmits a message containing the order details through the Internet to the game server which authenticates and validates the request. The request is then passed through the Internet to the fulfillment system to produce the customized merchandise.

In another scenario the player connects to a fulfillment web server through the Internet . Accessing the fulfillment web server the player enters details about his customized character. The details of the order are then transmitted by the fulfillment web server in a message through the Internet to the fulfillment system where the customized merchandise is produced.

In yet another scenario the player s game client transmits a message containing the order details through the Internet directly to the fulfillment system where the customized merchandise is produced.

Other scenarios are possible in which various elements of this process are substituted with analogous elements that serve similar functions. For example the communication network used to exchange messages does not have to be the Internet other networks and means of communication are acceptable.

In reference to fulfillment system is described as a series of processes that are executed in sequential order. The order of the processes could be rearranged and individual processes combined or eliminated depending on the requirements of the situation and the merchandise being customized without invalidating the underlying concept of a system composed of processes that render customized merchandise based on data used to represent a customized character.

Furthermore under certain conditions some processes may be executed in different locations. For example in the case of a collectible trading card it may be more efficient for the game servers to render the character data into an electronic image file and to pass this file to the fulfillment system for printing onto the physical card media.

In the depiction of the fulfillment system that a game client operates by a game player requests creation of customized merchandise based on the player s customized game character by transmitting a request message to the Fulfillment Initiation Process .

The Fulfillment Initiation Process evaluates and accepts or rejects the request for creation of customized merchandise. Some of the criteria that might be used to determine this include whether the request comes from a trusted source and whether the request includes the appropriate data necessary to carry out the fulfillment operations.

The data needed to carry out the fulfillment operation may include location of the customized character information the format of the customized character information procedures to access the customized character information the type of merchandise that is being ordered the quantity and a unique identifier used to retrieve further information related to the character. These types of data are more accurately referred to as meta data since it is data used to describe properties and attributes of the order and of the character data that will be needed to complete the order for customized merchandise.

As indicated previously the request may come from other sources besides the game client . For example the player through an external interface such as a Web site could place an order or the game system itself could place an order.

Further variations include how the order is placed either using push or pull technology. Push technology is where an external entity in this case the game client sends a request to a second entity in this case the Fulfillment Initiation Process . Pull technology is where one entity in this case the Fulfillment Initiation Process periodically queries the external entity in this case the game client to see if the external entity desires an action to take place in this case the creation of customized merchandise.

After the order has been accepted the meta information is transferred to the Data Acquisition Process . The Data Acquisition Process examines meta data and determines what type of merchandise is being requested. Using this information an electronic template for the merchandise to be built is retrieved from the Merchandise Template Database . This template specifies in sufficient detail to produce a given type of merchandise exactly what data is needed and how it should be formatted.

If the merchandise to be produced is a collectible trading card the template may include information on the dimensions of the image to be used on the front of the card how and where to place the character s name on the front of the card which statistics to include on the back of the card and how those statistics should be formatted.

Additional information for the manufacturing of the merchandise may be included in the template for example the materials machines process and facilities to use in manufacturing the merchandise could be specified in the template.

Based on the template retrieved from the Merchandise Template Database the Data Acquisition Process connects to the Player Character Information Database Game Object Library Database and the Player History and Statistics Database to retrieve the data specified in the template.

The Player Character Database contains data describing customizations players make to their characters. A unique identifier associated with each player and his or her character is used as an index into the database. The index allows efficient retrieval of the customization data the player has chosen for his or her character. The customization data is stored in relation to the default objects and character design elements found within the game for example the player character with the unique identifier 12345 has a nose 1.2 times as long as the default nose the player character with the unique identifier 67890 has eyes colored blue and hair colored blonde.

The Game Object Library contains geometry color and texture data describing the default objects and character design elements used to create customized characters. Examples of these objects and design elements include the geometry color and texture information used to represent the different styles of bodies faces outfits weapons armor and accessories that a player may utilize in customizing their characters.

An analogy for the relationship between the Player Character Database and the Game Object Library is that of a recipe to a grocery store. The recipe specifies which items are needed from the store and how those items should be modified or manipulated to produce the final product. In this case the recipe is the data describing the customizations from the Player Character Database the store is the Game Object Library and the final product is the customized character.

The Player History and Statistics Database contains historical information and statistics about characters within the game. Examples of types of historical information that are stored in the database include the tasks quests and milestones that the characters accomplished within the game. Examples of types of statistical information that are stored in the database include the character s level rank affiliations strength number and types of enemies killed profession and skills.

Depending on the type of merchandise to be produced the quality of the data stored in the Game Object Library Database may not be sufficient to produce the desired merchandise to the quality standards that are desired. This may be the case if for example only low resolution textures and geometry data is stored in the Game Object Library database and a high resolution piece of merchandise is desired. Low resolution data may be stored in the Game Object Library database to maintain a certain performance level of the game running in real time on a personal computer and to reduce space required to store the data.

In cases when the data from the Game Object Library Database is not acceptable data is retrieved from the Enhanced Game Object Library Database . This database contains high resolution geometry and texture data and is used to replace the low resolution geometry and texture data retrieved from the Game Object Library Database .

Next the Data Preparation Process takes the data that was acquired in the Data Acquisition Process and modifies the data to meet the needs of the desired manufacturing process. Modifications are determined based on analyzing the meta data for each order. The data then undergoes one or more modifications examples of which may include refinement enhancement transformation and replacement. Two common modifications include replacing low resolution with high resolution geometry and texture data and using commonly known graphical techniques and algorithms smoothing the texture and geometry data. Additional data such as serial numbers and copyright information can also be incorporated into the data at this point.

Once the data has been prepared the Data Rendering Process submits the data to the appropriate Rendering Device or System by examining the order meta data. This allows different types of merchandise to be produced using the same fulfillment system as long as the fulfillment system has access to an appropriate type of rendering devices or system.

The Rendering Device or System is specifically anticipated and expected to take on various forms as merchandise fulfillment needs dictate. Examples of some of the forms expected include the following although this list should not exclude other rendering devices or systems being incorporated under the fulfillment process 

a Software program that converts 3 dimensional geometry and texture information into a 2 dimensional representation.

b Hardware device that converts 3 dimensional geometry and texture information into a 2 dimensional representation.

c Combination of software program s and hardware device s that converts 3 dimensional geometry and texture information into a 2 dimensional representation.

d Physical printers including but not limited to the following and including any drivers or other software needed to provide the necessary inputs to the printer and to control the printers ink jet printer laser printer dye sublimation printer ID card printer printing press and silk screening apparatus.

e Fabrication machinery including but not limited to the following and including any drivers or other software needed to provide the necessary inputs to the machinery and to control the machinery 3D printer computer controlled milling machinery laser cutting machinery water jet machinery carving machinery sewing machinery stitching machinery and embroidery machinery.

The merchandise produced by the Rendering Device or System varies based upon the specific rendering device or system used and the order being fulfilled. Examples of types of merchandise that may be produced include the following although this list does not exclude other merchandise that may be produced under this process 

a Image or graphical representation of the customized character in an electronic format the electronic format may include but not be limited to static dynamic interactive noninteractive or any combination therein .

b Image of the customized character printed on a card optionally including personalized information about the customized character and or player.

c A t shirt bumper sticker stickpin badge hat stationery pen plaque poster trophy model sticker calendar cup flag banner jacket or other merchandise possessing the likeness of the customized character and optionally including personalized information about the customized character and or player.

e A bust or sculpture possessing the likeness of the customized character and optionally including personalized information about the customized character and or player.

After the Data Rendering Process and the Rendering Device or System has produced the customized merchandise the merchandise undergoes the Packaging and Delivery Process . As part of this process the merchandise is packaged and delivered to the appropriate party. Methods for packaging and delivery will vary depending on the type of customized merchandise produced and includes the following although this list should not exclude other types of packaging and delivery processes being utilized under this fulfillment process electronic delivery including but not be limited to email FTP World Wide Web and other traditional packaging and delivery mechanisms.

Once the customized merchandise has begun the delivery process for example being provided to a delivery agent or has been actually delivered through electronic means notifications to appropriate parties are provided. Notification information includes but is not limited to invoice information and tracking information of the in transit merchandise methods for accessing or retrieving the merchandise or a simple notice of completion.

In one embodiment of the present invention the fulfillment system becomes a centralized hub that processes players orders and produces customized merchandise.

This arrangement offers many cross promotional or viral marketing opportunities available to the operator of the fulfillment system to increase orders. For example when one player belonging to a formal group within the game orders customized merchandise he can be given the option of inviting the other players belonging to his group to order the same type of merchandise. The fulfillment system contacts each of the members of the group directly or via the game system informs each member that one of their own group members is ordering merchandise and offers each of the other members of the group the opportunity to purchase the customized merchandise. Discounts may be offered to increase the incentive. An alternate incentive that may be offered is if all members of the group order the merchandise they may each receive a discount bonus or special item as part of their order. If the merchandise in question were a collectible trading card then each member of the group may order one card of each member of the group. Thus if 10 players were in the group they each would receive 10 collectible trading cards one card of each member within the group. A bonus such as an extra group card could be offered if all members of the group completed the order. An alternative promotional bonus could be a display stand or card album.

This strategy of adding value when processing a group request is not limited to trading cards and it is not limited to bonus items and discounts. It can easily be applied to other physical merchandise and electronic merchandise as well. For example when creating images for a hosted Web site the organizational relationships among the members of the group may be rendered along with the images of the characters to produce an organizational chart. During the Package and Delivery Process this organizational chart could be added to each group member s hosted site. Additionally each position on the organizational chart could link to the home page of the appropriate individual player as well as provide statistics and descriptions of the player s character. This interconnectedness of Web sites for individuals within a group provides a valuable marketing and advertising opportunity as well as increasing the player s involvement with the game and the retention rate of subscribers.

The centralized hub example embodiment of the present invention creates additional utility by becoming a proxy to deliver merchandise as gifts between members of a group without the members of the group knowing each other s personally identifiable information. This is made possible by having the fulfillment system correlate each group member s customer information such as their email address or home address to their in game character and allowing group members to purchase customized merchandise for each other s in game characters. The fulfillment system may then use the gift receiver s character information to retrieve the gift receiver s personal delivery information and continue to verify and process the order. During the verification step criteria such as the costs associated with the delivery of the customized merchandise the gift receiver s location or ability or preference as to whether or not he or she will accept gifts can be considered and the gift order either modified or rejected automatically or manually via interaction with the gift giver and the system the gift receiver and the system or between all parties both gift giver and receiver and the system .

A further extension of the proxy configuration allows a player to offer customized merchandise to other people outside of his or her immediate group for example through an in game virtual store. In this scenario other game players or users of the fulfillment system can browse the customized merchandise of the player that created the store and purchase the customized merchandise of that player. Such customized merchandise could be highly desirable by other players especially if the customized merchandise reflected a high level of achievement within the game or featured content to which the store browser did not have access. For example the selling player was the only player to find and defeat an extremely rare high level monster and the victory immortalized into a wall poster showing the player fighting and slaying the monster. Most players would only be able to see the rare monster if they purchased the wall poster. Some or all of proceeds from the store could be returned to the selling player credited to his account or converted into in game experience points or in game currency.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will thus be appreciated by those skilled in the art that numerous other arrangements which embody the principles of the invention are thus within its spirit and scope.

