---

title: Method and apparatus for providing long term evolution network topology management
abstract: A method and apparatus providing a network topology management of a wireless communication network are disclosed. The method discovers network topology data of the wireless communication network, wherein the wireless communication network comprises a self-healing capability, and identifies a difference between the network topology data that is discovered against a stored network topology data of the wireless communication network. The method updates the stored network topology data with the difference that is identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902761&OS=08902761&RS=08902761
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08902761
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101215
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication network and more particularly to a method and apparatus for providing Long Term Evolution LTE network topology management in a wireless communication network.

In a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE network service outages and degradation can be difficult to detect e.g. a sleeping cell and will require considerable manual effort for troubleshooting. These service outages or degradations are difficult to detect because of the self healing aspect of certain cellular network e.g. the LTE network. For example services in a failed cell site can be automatically covered by neighboring cell sites. Hence the failed or degraded cell site can remain in a failed or degraded state without being noticed for a period of time. The LTE network topology changes dynamically due to the self healing capability when a cell site enters into or goes out of service. This requires that the network topology data used by the wireless service provider to be updated accordingly in order to provide effective fault and performance correlation as well as service impact analysis.

In one embodiment the present method and apparatus provide a network topology management of a wireless communication network. The method discovers network topology data of the wireless communication network wherein the wireless communication network comprises a self healing capability and identifies a difference between the network topology data that is discovered against a stored network topology data of the wireless communication network. The method updates the stored network topology data with the difference that is identified.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

As discussed above in a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE network the self healing aspect of the LTE network causes the network topology to change dynamically when a cell site enters into or goes out of service. This requires that the network topology data used by the wireless service provider to be updated accordingly in order to provide effective fault and performance correlation as well as service impact analysis.

To address this criticality the present method and apparatus enable a wireless communication service provider to manage the topology of the LTE network and obtain accurate network topology and configuration data to keep track of dynamic changes in the LTE network. Using the accurate network topology and configuration data the wireless service provider can accurately and effectively correlate fault scenarios and alarms from the LTE network. For example the method performs network topology discovery and updates the network topology data when the network topology has changed wherein the updated network topology data is used by the service provider to correlate a plurality of alarms from a plurality devices down to a single device which is the root cause of a service trouble in the LTE network.

Broadly defined an eNodeB is a radio base transceiver station RBS as per the 3GPP standards or simply referred to as a base station . An eNodeB provides the LTE air interface and performs radio resource management for wireless access. 3GPP is a global effort to define a wireless communication system specification. In 3GPP release 8 LTE is a set of enhancements to the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS which focuses on adopting 4th Generation 4G mobile communication s technology including an all Internet Protocol IP end to end networking architecture.

In one embodiment eUTRAN is connected to the EPC network via metro Ethernet network serving as a transport network. In particular SIAD in eUTRAN is connected to Multi service Node MSN in EPC network via metro Ethernet network . An EPC network provides key functions that support wireless services in the LTE environment. In one embodiment an EPC network is an Internet Protocol IP packet core network that supports both real time and non real time service delivery across a LTE network e.g. as specified by the 3GPP standards.

In one embodiment the SIAD is a device that provides wireless traffic aggregation and backhaul from a cell site to an EPC network. An MSN provides layer 2 and layer 3 networking functions for wireless service between one or more SIADs and the EPC network and the eUTRAN is the air interface of the 3GPP s Long Term Evolution LTE specifications for mobile networks. Namely the eUTRAN comprises a radio access network standard that will replace previous generations of air interface standards.

In EPC network network devices Mobility Management Entity MME and Serving Gateway SGW support key functions as part of the LTE network . MME is the control node for the LTE access network. It is responsible for UE User Equipment tracking and paging e.g. such as retransmissions bearer activation and deactivation process selection of the SGW and authentication of a user. SGW routes and forwards user data packets while also acting as the mobility anchor for the user plane during inter eNodeB handovers and as the anchor for mobility between LTE and other wireless technologies such as 2G and 3G wireless networks.

In addition in EPC network the Home Subscriber Server HSS contains subscription related information e.g. subscriber profiles performs authentication and authorization of a wireless service user and provides information about the subscriber s location. The Policy Charging and Rule Function PCRF supports accesses to subscriber databases and specialized functions of a charging system. The Public Data Network Gateway PDN GW is a gateway that provides access between the EPC network and the public data network.

In one embodiment the TMS comprises a collection of modules that provides topology management of dynamic changes occurring in an LTE network. For example the TMS comprises a Topology Discovery Engine TDE a Configuration Management System CMS a Topology Builder and Trouble Domain and Classification Engine TBTDCE a Network Management System NMS a Network Topology and Configuration Inventory Database NTCID and an Element Management System EMS . The functions performed by these modules will be described below.

In one embodiment the TDE supports the discovery functions of dynamic changes in the LTE network. For example TDE uses information collected from devices in eUTRAN EPC network and EMS as inputs to support dynamic topology change discovery in the LTE network.

In X interface flow is used to communicate between two eNodeBs e.g. between eNodeB and eNodeB S interface flow is used to communicate between an eNodeB such as eNodeB and a device in EPC network such as MME and SGW . Note that the S and X interfaces are standard interfaces defined by the 3GPP standard.

In one embodiment the CMS receives inputs from TDE and performs the appropriate configuration data consolidation and update. For instance CMS receives newly discovered LTE network topology and configuration change data discovered by TDE and updates those data in EMS and NTCID accordingly.

In one embodiment TBTDCE generates a LTE network topology view as well as supports network alarm correlation functions. The generated network topology and alarm correlation information will be sent to NMS for further processing.

In one embodiment the NTCID contains the inventory of all network topology and configuration data of the LTE network .

In one embodiment the EMS is a module that provides management of one or more specific types of network elements e.g. eNodeBs SIADs MMEs etc. in the LTE network .

In step a TDE discovers the topology of the LTE network e.g. retrieves network topology configuration and connectivity data from one or more network devices e.g. a SIAD in an eUTRAN or a MME in an EPC network in or from an EMS having the data for the one or more network devices associated with an LTE network. Given that the LTE network has the ability to self heal the topology of the LTE network may change e.g. an eNodeB interacting with a different SIAD in support of another sleeping eNodeB. Such change may be dynamically implemented without the knowledge of the network. Over time the current network topology may have changed to such a degree that it no longer matches a stored topology as noted by the network. As such when a fault isolation function is implemented on the stored topology inconsistent results may result. Thus discovery of the topology may need to be implemented e.g. on a periodic schedule e.g. daily weekly and so on .

In one embodiment the retrieval can be performed through various standard protocols or interfaces including but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Web service and Application Programming Interface API . For example the TDE uses the ping command to validate the IP addresses of the network devices and adds the validated IP addresses to a validated list. The TDE may also use the traceroute command sent to these network devices to determine the network connectivity of these devices.

In step the TDE determines if a stored pre provisioned network topology data and the discovered post deployment network topology and configuration data are in sync. If the data are in sync the method proceeds to step otherwise the method proceeds to step .

In step the CMS consolidates the newly discovered network topology data that are different from the stored network topology data using the validated list from step and then updates the appropriate systems in the LTE network. For instance the CMS loads the newly discovered network topology data that are different from the stored network topology data to an EMS system and updates the newly discovered network topology data that are different from the stored network topology data to the NTCID. The CMS creates objects in a hierarchical manner in the order of location node card port circuit logical connection pool cell and sector objects to reflect changes e.g. a network device that has entered into service in the LTE network.

Note that an object is created only if the object does not already exist and the required components associated with the primary key exist. For instance a port object for an eNodeB can only be created if both the eNodeB device object and the card object associated with the eNodeB exist.

If an object already exists the object table fields containing the pre provisioned data will be modified using the updated post installation data fed by the TDE. The last update time of the modified object will be updated with the current timestamp.

In one embodiment the location object class represents a physical network location that contains network equipment. Location types are Cell Site Data Center MTSO NOC and etc. where MTSO represents Metropolitan Servicing Office and NOC represents Network Operations Center. The location object class has an aggregation relationship with the cell object class. For instance multiple cell objects can be aggregated within a location object. Similarly the location object class has an aggregation relationship with the node object class.

Table 1 illustrates an exemplary location object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 1 the LOCATION OBJ ID field is of number type and is the primary key of the table.

The node object class represents a network element or device. A node contains equipment objects of racks shelves slots cards and ports. The node types in an LTE network includes but are not limited to eNodeB MME SWG SIAD and MSN etc. The node object class has a composition relationship with the card object class. For instance a node object can be composed of a card object.

Table 2 illustrates an exemplary node object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 2 the NODE OBJ ID field is of number type which represents the record database key and a primary key of the table. The NodeType field is of variable length character type and provides the type of network element or device associated with the node. The NodeName field is of variable length character type and provides an eleven characters Common Language Location Identifier CLLI code of the node. The VENDOR field is of variable length character type and provides the manufacturer of the associated node network element or device. The MODEL field is of variable length character type and provides the equipment model of the associated node network element or device. The REV field is of variable length character type and provides the revision of the associated node network element or device. The ParentLocation field is of number type and provides the parent location object referencing the node object. The ParentLocation field serves as a foreign key to the table. This field also serves as the foreign key to the location object of the location table. The IP ADDRESS field is of variable length character type and provides the IP address of the node. The PoolID field is of string type and provides the identification of the MME pool object associated with an eNodeB. The PoolID field serves as a foreign key to the table. An eNodeB can have one Pool ID and a MME can be assigned to a MME pool. Each MME pool can have multiple MME as its members. For an eNodeB node object the table can also contain eNB ID which is unique for all eNodeBs. The PrimarySecondary field is of character type and provides the flag to distinguish the node s role e.g. a primary or a secondary node.

The card object class comprises the ports on a network element or device that communicate with other ports in other network elements or devices. A card can also contain sub slots that again contain other cards. The card object class has a composition relationship with the port object class. For instance a card object can be composed of a port object.

Table 3 illustrates an exemplary card object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 3 the CARD OBJ ID is of number type and is the primary key of the table. The Node field is of string type and provides the node object referencing the card object. The Node field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Card field is of number type and provides parent card object referencing the card object if the card object is a sub card. The Card field serves as a foreign key to the table. The PrimarySecondary field is of character type and provides the flag to distinguish the card s role e.g. a primary or a secondary card.

The port object class represents the interface between network devices and circuits or network links . A port is associated with one end of a circuit or network link. A port usually resides on a card. But a port also may exist on a device called device port . A high bandwidth port e.g. a DS3 port can contain a set of low bandwidth ports e.g. DS1 port .

Table 4 illustrates an exemplary port object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 4 the PORT OBJ ID is of number type and is the primary key of the table. The ParentPort field is of number type and provides the parent port object referencing the port object. The ParentPort field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Node field is of number type and provides the node object referencing the port object. The Node field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Card field is of number type and provides card object referencing the port object. The Card field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Location field is of number type and provides the location object referencing the port object. The Location field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Circuit field is of number type and provides the circuit object referencing the port object. The Circuit field serves as a foreign key to the table. The PrimarySecondary field is of character type and provides the flag to distinguish the port s role e.g. a primary or a secondary port.

The circuit object class represents a logical connection of certain bandwidth provided by the physical network of nodes and links. A circuit has two end ports an A end port and a Z end port. It has a specified transmission speed or bandwidth capacity. Circuits are assembled in layers. A circuit may be divided into channels or time slots which can be allocated to the underlying child circuits. In this case the parent circuit is carrying those low bandwidth child circuits. The highest level of circuit is carried by a physical link. An end to end circuit layout starts with the A end port. It may travel through multiple parent circuits and ends with the Z end port. The circuit object class has an association relationship with the port object class. For instance a circuit object has two termination points the A and Z ends and each of the termination points is associated with a port object.

Table 5 illustrates an exemplary circuit object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 5 the CIRCUIT OBJ ID is of number type and is the primary key of the table. The A end Port field is of number type and provides the A end port object referencing the circuit object. The A end Port field serves as a foreign key to the table. The A end Node field is of number type and provides the A end node object referencing the circuit object. The A end Node field serves as a foreign key to the table. The A end Location field is of number type and provides the A end location object referencing the circuit object. The A end Location field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Z end Port field is of number type and provides the Z end port object referencing the circuit object. The Z end Port field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Z end Node field is of number type and provides the Z end node object referencing the circuit object. The Z end Node field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Z end Location field is of number type and provides the Z end location object referencing the circuit object. The Z end Location field serves as a foreign key to the table. The PrimarySecondary field is of character type and provides the flag to distinguish the circuit s role e.g. a primary or a secondary circuit.

The logical connection object class provides an LTE inter node end to end communication protocol to support LTE functions. The logical connection types for LTE project are S MME S U S S S S S S S S and X which are interface types defined by the 3GPP standard . The logical connection object class has an association relationship with the node object class. For instance a logical connection object has two termination points the A and Z ends and each of the termination points is associated with a node object. The logical connection object class also has an association relationship with the circuit object class. For instance a logical connection object is associated with a particular circuit object.

Table 6 illustrates an exemplary logical connection object class table related to the present disclosure. In TABLE 6 the CONNECTION OBJ ID is of number type and is the primary key of the table. The A end Port field is of number type and provides the A end port ID of the circuit object referencing the logical connection object. The A end Port field serves as a foreign key to the table. The A end NodeID field is of number type and provides the A end node ID of the circuit object referencing the logical connection object. The A end NodeID field serves as a foreign key to the table. The A end NodeType field is of number type and provides the A end node type of the node object referencing the logical connection object. The A end NodeType field serves as a foreign key to the table.

The Z end Port field is of number type and provides the Z end port ID of the circuit object referencing the logical connection object. The Z end Port field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Z end NodeID field is of number type and provides the Z end node ID of the circuit object referencing the logical connection object. The Z end NodeID field serves as a foreign key to the table. The Z end NodeType field is of number type and provides the Z end node type of the node object referencing the logical connection object. The Z end NodeType field serves as a foreign key to the table.

The TransportCircuit field is of number type and provides the circuit object referencing the logical connection object. The TransportCircuit field serves as a foreign key to the table.

The pool object is a collection of node objects. A MME pool is a collection of MME nodes. A SWG pool is a collection of SGW nodes. All nodes in a pool will support fail over protection and load balancing functions. The pool object class has an aggregation relationship with the node object class. For instance multiple node objects can be aggregated within a pool object.

Table 7 illustrates an exemplary pool object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 7 the Pool ID field is of String type and represents the MME Pool Identifier or Name as well as serves as a primary key of the table. The PoolType field is of String type and represents pool type e.g. MME or SGW pool. The Node field is of String type and provides the node object ID associated with the pool as well as serves as a foreign key referencing the node table of the pool object class table. Multiple network elements can logically compose a pool. For instance a MME pool is composed of multiple MMEs and a SGW pool is composed of multiple SGWs. Also multiple eNodeBs can be logically associated with a pool e.g. a MME pool or a SGW pool. If a MME pool is composed of 4 MMEs and an eNodeB is associated with one active MME in a MME Pool then the other three MMEs serve as stand by MMEs. In the case that the active MME fails one of the stand by MMEs will take over the operations of the failed MME. The eNodeB has link connectivity and link checking to all 4 MMEs at the same time.

The cell object represents the logical functions of cell site equipment such as the functions of an eNodeB. A cell site is further partitioned into multiple sectors. The cell object class has a composition relationship with the sector object class. For instance a cell object can be composed of a sector object. The cell object class also has an association relationship with the node object class. For instance a cell object is associated with a particular node object.

Table 8 illustrates an exemplary cell object class table related to the present disclosure. In Table 8 the EUTRANCELL OBJ ID is of number type and is the primary key of the table. The eNodeB field is of number type and provides the eNodeB node object referencing the cell object. The eNodeB field serves as a foreign key to the table. The CellSite field is of number type and provides the cell site ID of the location object referencing the cell object. The CellSite field serves as a foreign key to the table.

The sector object represents a subset of cell site logical functions. A sector is allocated with transceiver equipment of an eNodeB device. The sector object class has an association relationship with the port object class. For instance a sector object is associated with a particular port object.

In equipment object class is an abstract class. The node object class has an inheritance relationship with and inherits from the equipment object class. Similarly the card object class has an inheritance relationship with and inherits from the equipment object class the port object class has an inheritance relationship with and inherits from the equipment object class. The node card and port object classes have been previously described.

The node object class has a composition relationship with the card object class. For instance a node object can be composed of a card object.

The card object class has a composition relationship with the port object class. For instance a card object can be composed of a port object.

The connection object class has an association relationship with the port object class. For instance a connection object has two termination points the A and Z ends and each of the termination points is associated with a port object.

The location object class has an aggregation relationship with the equipment object class. For instance multiple equipment objects can be aggregated within a location object. The details of the location object class has been previously described.

Similarly the subnetwork class object and the service object class both have an aggregation relationship with the equipment object class.

The customer object class has an aggregation relationship with the service object class. For instance multiple customer objects can be aggregated within a service object.

The service object class has an aggregation relationship with the logical resource object class. For instance multiple service objects can be aggregated within a logical resource object. Logical resource includes but is not limited to logical devices protocol device interface software and process etc.

Returning to in step the TBTDCE builds or constructs a topology map of LTE equipment associated with physical and logical network connections a topology map of layer 2 and layer 3 transport network and a topology map based on service location and sub network. The maps are constructed using network topology and configuration data retrieved from the NTCID.

For instance illustrates that a node e.g. eNodeB is located in a location cell site . The eNodeB is connected to another node MME via a connection S MME . MME is located in a location MTSO . The connection S MME is carried by a circuit EVC .

The eNodeB is also connected to another node SGW via connection S U . SGW is located in a location MTSO . The connection S U is carried by a circuit EVC .

EVC is terminated at one end at port on card in a node MSN . EVC is also terminated at another end at port on card in a node SIAD .

In addition MME is connected to another node SGW via connection S . The connection S is carried by a circuit EVC .

In eNodeB and SIAD are located in cell site . The eNodeB is connected to MME MME MME and MME via connections S S S and S respectively. The eNodeB is connected to SGW via connection S U and connected to SGW via connection S U.

SIAD is connected to MSN via circuits EVC EVC and EVC S U. The SIAD is connected to MSN via circuits EVC and EVC .

Note that connection S rides on EVC connection S rides on EVC connection S rides on EVC connection S rides on EVC and connection S U rides on EVC S U.

MME MME and SGW are located in MTSO and MME MME and SGW are located in MTSO . MME through MME belong to the same MME Pool . MSN is located in MTSO and MSN is located in MTSO .

Returning to in step the TBTDCE provides network alarm correlations to identify the root cause of a network trouble. For example the source network device of a network trouble is identified based on alarm correlations.

In eNodeB and SIAD are located in cell site . The eNodeB and SIAD are located in cell site . MSN MME MME and SGW are located in MTSO . The MSN MME MME and SGW are located in MTSO . MME Pool spans two different MTSOs and for physical diversity purposes.

In one embodiment cell site and cell site are connected to the MTSO and MTSO via a metro Ethernet network. In particular SIAD in cell site is connected to the MSN in the MTSO via Ethernet virtual circuit EVC EVC and EVC S U. The SIAD in cell site is connected to the MSN in the MTSO via Ethernet virtual circuit EVC EVC and EVC S U.

The SIAD in cell site is connected to MSN in the MTSO via Ethernet virtual circuit EVC and EVC . The SIAD is connected to MSN in the MTSO via Ethernet virtual circuit EVC and EVC .

Note that logical connections S S S S S S S and S as illustrated in are carried over circuits EVC EVC EVC EVC EVC EVC EVC and EVC in respectively. Note that one or more connections can be carried within a single circuit.

Circuit EVC S U carries user traffic between eNodeB and SGW . The circuit EVC S U carries user traffic between eNodeB and SGW .

In one embodiment when a control card failure occurs in say eNodeB as illustrated in eNodeB will trigger and originate a control card failure alarm and an eNodeB unreachable alarm. Upon detecting the failure at eNodeB MME MME MME and MME will also all originate alarms reporting the same failure. In addition SGW will also originate an alarm reporting the same failure. The multiple alarms indicating the same control card failure will be correlated by the TBTDCE to identify that eNodeB is the source of the problem. The eNodeB alarm will be treated as the parent alarm and the MME as well as the SGW alarms will be treated as child alarms. The parent alarm identified can be forwarded to the NMS for further actions. The method ends in step .

It should be noted that although not explicitly specified one or more steps of the method described herein may include a storing displaying and or outputting step as required for a particular application. In other words any data records fields and or intermediate results discussed in the method can be stored displayed and or outputted to another device as required for a particular application. Furthermore steps or blocks in that recite a determining operation or involve a decision do not necessarily require that both branches of the determining operation be practiced. In other words one of the branches of the determining operation can be deemed as an optional step.

It should be noted that the present disclosure can be implemented in software and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using application specific integrated circuits ASIC a general purpose computer or any other hardware equivalents. In one embodiment the present module or process for enabling LTE network topology management can be loaded into memory and executed by processor to implement the functions as discussed above. As such the present process for enabling LTE network topology management including associated data structures of the present disclosure can be stored on a non transitory e.g. tangible and physical computer readable storage medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

