---

title: Using real playing cards for online gaming
abstract: On or more apparatuses, systems, and methods are disclosed for playing an online card game using real cards. Real playing cards are transferred from a deck of playing cards to a card holding position in a card holder, such as for a sufficient number of players for a game. From an appropriate card viewing position, an actual image of the card (either front or back) is captured, such as by a video camera. The captured image of the card is used to display to an online player, who is playing a virtual card game, such as poker, where the online player may be locally or remotely connected. The image of the card is used in lieu of a virtual image in the virtual representation of an online card game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09153093&OS=09153093&RS=09153093
owner: 
number: 09153093
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101005
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 248 635 filed Oct. 5 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Online gaming has become extremely popular and draws increasing numbers of players every year. Common online gaming includes poker and other games conventionally played with playing cards such as standard 52 card decks. In the electronic e.g. video and online gaming versions however the cards dealt to respective players are virtual cards generated by a computing device. The computing device typically comprises a remote server which may have an operable connection to the Internet in the case of online gaming and or to local video display terminal in the case of local video gaming. Players can access the virtual cards through the local terminal and or using a remote communications device such as desktop computers laptop computers webphones PDAs etc. To ensure fairness and credibility the virtual cards that are virtually dealt must be randomly generated so that neither any one player nor the house gains an unfair advantage.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

It is possible that the operators i.e. the house of some gaming systems can manipulate the random generation of virtual cards in order to fix the games to the advantage of the house or a selected one of the players. For example well known online poker sites were suspected of having super users playing on their sites where the super users could see the virtual cards of respective players at a virtual table using this information to deceive players out of large sums of money. Technology may exist on online poker sites and video poker systems for individuals involved in the management and or software development and implementation to use a Super User account that allows them to see other player s virtual cards.

Currently video poker and online poker gaming typically use a random number generator RNG to electronically shuffle and deal the virtual cards. RNGs can provide cards that are dealt in as random a manner as may be found with a real pack of cards. While RNGs can provide for randomly dealt cards they are subject to being programmed in an unfair way much like slot apparatuses such as to pay out less than they take in. For example the RNGs can be programmed so that certain user names either highly privileged staff members or computer generated players can receive better hands than those dealt to genuine players. Programming may be used to give new players and or long term players winning runs such as to keep players playing.

Some online gaming systems utilize internal and external security checks designed to provide users a certain level of trustworthiness. These security checks can be performed by third party entities to attempt to uncover and prevent potential cheating. Other online gaming systems utilize real cards which comprise bar codes that are scanned when dealt to players such as to provide for post game checks e.g. to review the dealing and play of cards using the scans . However these techniques and systems still utilize virtual cards displayed to the users which still have a potential to be gamed by programming or other means.

Techniques and systems are disclosed for improvements in online gaming for example to provide increased credibility and to mitigate a likelihood of fixing a card game by a gaming system operator. Real cards can be shuffled dealt and displayed to online players for example where the players can view respective aspects of the handling of the card. Further because the real cards are dealt to and viewed by respective players such as by cameras or other monitoring devices programmatic manipulation in favor of one or more players and or the house can be mitigated. In this way for example online players may be provided with a greater sense of credibility of fairness of the online game where it can be less likely for gaming or fixing of a game.

In one embodiment an apparatus for playing an online card game using real cards can comprise a card holding component that holds a playing card so that it can be viewed from a first view position during a card game and where the card holding component comprises a sufficient number of card holding positions for playing a desired card game with a desired number of players. In this embodiment a card image capture component can capture an image of the playing card from the first view position such that the image can be displayed to a player of the card game for example as an actual image of the card in a virtualized display of the card game. Further in this embodiment a card delivery component can transfer the playing card from a deck of playing cards to the card holding position.

In one embodiment a system for providing an online card game using real cards comprises a real card playing component that can automatically deal playing cards from a deck of real playing cards to a card holding component for respective cards dealt during the card game capture an image of the respective playing cards in the card holding component during the card game and automatically capture and arrange discarded playing cards for arrangement into the deck of real playing cards. In this embodiment a card display component can display the image of respective playing cards as one or more played cards to one or more players of the card game during the card game. Further in this embodiment a control component can control an operation of the real card playing component in response to an action of a player of the card game and or appropriate game flow of the card game.

In another embodiment a method for providing an online card game using real cards can comprise automatically preparing a deck of playing cards for use in the card game such as mixing evaluating and shuffling. In this embodiment a playing card can be automatically dealt to a card viewing position from the deck of playing cards and an image of the dealt playing card can be captured from the card viewing position. Further in this embodiment the captured image of the dealt playing card can be displayed to an online player of the card game in a virtual display of the game and the playing card can be manipulated in response to one or more actions from the online player.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Techniques and systems described herein generally relate to real card playing apparatuses for online gaming and to online gaming systems and methods that can utilize the real card playing apparatuses. These apparatuses systems and methods are designed for playing card games such as poker for example using conventional fifty two card deck or customized playing cards. In some embodiments a common card game played by a real card apparatus can be Texas Hold em poker. In other embodiments the apparatuses systems and methods can be adapted for playing draw poker stud poker blackjack or other conventional or newly developed card games.

In contrast to conventional online gaming the card playing apparatuses gaming systems and methods described herein utilize one or more actual physical decks of playing cards. As an illustrative example because real cards are used instead of computer generated virtual cards the method and systems utilizing the card playing apparatuses are less likely to be manipulated and therefore more credible to players which is a significant advantage over current or previous gaming systems. Further the systems and techniques described herein that may utilize the real card playing apparatus are configured to be highly automated by including automated dealing shuffling and evaluation for re use mechanisms for example. In this way in this example merely one person may oversee an operation of multiple apparatuses at a same time which can be a significant advantage over current or previous gaming systems.

As an illustrative example the card delivery component can transfer e.g. deal cards e.g. from the deck of playing cards to an appropriate card holding position for the card game for respective of the online players. For example where the game comprises Texas hold em respective players receive two down cards that are viewed merely by the player dealt the down cards five cards are displayed up for all players to view and a pile of discarded or burn cards are placed face down for no player to view. In this example the sufficient number of card holding positions can comprise enough positions to play a game with a desired number of players.

Commonly in Texas hold em up to ten players may play a same game at a same time for example. In this example the card holding positions can comprise two for respective potential players e.g. twenty five for the up cards and one for the discard pile therefore there may be twenty six card holding positions e.g. or twenty eight for three burn piles to play the card game. Alternately where a different card game e.g. seven card stud blackjack three card let it ride Caribbean poker etc. is played an appropriate number of card holding positions can be employed. In one embodiment the example apparatus may comprise a sufficient number of card holding positions to play respective games available and merely a number of positions needed to play the card game can be utilized for the card game.

Further in one embodiment the card holding component can comprise a viewing window that allows the card to be viewed from the first view position . For example the window may merely comprise an opening that provides a view of the card. Alternately the window may comprise an optically clear covering e.g. glass a clear polymer etc. . In this way for example the card image capture component can capture an image of the card through the window when in the card holding position . In one embodiment the captured image of the card can be transferred over a network connection e.g. to be displayed on a monitor e.g. computer monitor smartphone screen television mobile device screen video display unit video poker machine screen such that the captured image can be viewed by a player in the card game. For example instead of displaying virtual cards e.g. computer generated graphics representing a card in a game an online card game can display the captured image of the playing card.

Further in one embodiment a face of the card can be displayed where appropriate and or a back of the card can be displayed where appropriate. For example a first image capture component e.g. may be positioned to capture a face of the playing card such as to display to a user as their down cards and a second image capture component may be positioned to display a back of the card such as to display other player s down cards the discard pile or other down cards e.g. a dealer s down cards in blackjack . Alternately the card delivery component may be configured to turn a playing card e.g. with an active turning mechanism and or one or more stationary turning mechanisms such that a desired side of the card e.g. face or back is facing the image capture component .

In one embodiment the discard component can comprise merely a pin piston on which the card resides in the card holding position . In this embodiment the pin piston can be connected to an actuator that may draw the pin in to cause the card to drop to the card retrieval component and out to receive and hold a next card. In another embodiment the discard component can comprise an outlet door and actuator. In this embodiment the outlet door can be open by the actuator to permit the card to exit to the card retrieval component . The doors can be configured to move from a closed position covering an outlet of the card holding position to an open position permitting the respective cards to exit. As an illustrative example the doors can be pivotally coupled to the card holding component and the actuator may be a linear drive actuator.

In the example embodiment of the card retrieval component can be configured to receive cards from respective card holding positions of the card holding component . In one embodiment the retrieved cards may travel to a collection area of the card retrieval component for example which can collect the cards as they are discarded mix the cards and move them to a deck arrangement area such as using a conveyor component . In this example the deck arrangement area of the card retrieval component can be configured to arrange the collected and mixed cards into decks. In one embodiment the mixing and arranging may be performed using mechanical components that actively mix and arrange the cards and or static components that passively mix and arrange the cards while moving along the conveyor .

Returning to a card evaluation component can evaluate a deck of playing cards to determine whether the deck is suitable for use in a game. For example after the card retrieval component collects discarded cards and organizes them into a deck the card evaluation component may determine whether there are a proper number of cards in the deck to play the desired game. Typical poker decks comprise fifty two cards where a beginning weight of the fifty two cards can be determined or known for example. In one embodiment the card evaluation component may be configured to weigh the deck of cards to determine whether the weight matches a desired threshold value e.g. within a pre determined range for a deck for a full deck of cards e.g. all fifty two cards are present for poker . In one embodiment if the cards do not meet the desired threshold for the evaluation the deck may be discarded or removed from any additional play.

In the example embodiment of the card evaluation component can comprise one or more components . In this example the card evaluation component can comprise a card reader that reads respective cards of the deck for example to determine whether each card is present and or to evaluate a condition e.g. damaged alignment wrong deck etc. of the card. For example the card reader may comprise a camera that captures an image that can be compared with a threshold image. Further a code on in the card may be read by the reader e.g. bar code RFID . Additionally the card evaluation component can further comprise a weight evaluation component such as described above.

In the example embodiment of a card shuffling component can shuffle the deck of playing cards prior to using the deck in the card game. The card delivery component can comprise a card dealing component that removes the playing card from a top of the deck to be delivered to the card holding position . For example the card dealing component comprises a means such as a suction cup gripper wheel etc. that enables merely the top card to removed from the deck and transferred to respective card holding positions for a desired game. In alternative embodiments two or more card dealing component may be coupled with one or more card delivery components one or more card shuffling components and or one or more deck evaluation components or vice versa depending on the game i.e. how long it typically takes to go through each deck. 

A code scanning component can read a code on the playing card from the first view position to determine a value of the playing card . Alternately code scanning component can read a code on the playing card from the first view position to determine security information for the playing card. For example respective cards in the deck can comprise a one dimensional bar code a two dimensional matrix code RFID or some other code attached imprinted or otherwise connected to the playing card. In this example the code can be read by the code scanning component where the code at least in part identifies a face value of the card e.g. king of hearts . Further in this example the code can detect whether the card is a potential security issue. That is for example the card may be counterfeit misplaced misaligned or damaged and the code may be used to detect one or more of these concerns.

A game image capture component can capture one or more images of the card playing apparatus during the card game from one or more second viewing positions . In this embodiment the one or more images from the one or more second viewing positions can comprise the playing cards handled by respective components of the apparatus. For example the game image capture component can collect one or more image views e.g. from one or more cameras such as a video camera of the operation of the real card playing apparatus where card handling can be captured. In this example the captured images of the operation can be provided to a player who may view how the cards are being handled such as to ensure that no issues of cheating or manipulating the cards is undertaken.

A control component can provide control commands to operate one or more of the various components of the apparatus such as the card image capture component the card delivery component the card holding component the card evaluation component the code scanning component the discard component the card retrieval component the game image capture component the card shuffling component and the card dealing component . In one embodiment the control component can provide commands to the one or more components of the example apparatus in response to actions from one or more players in the game e.g. a fold action by a player can cause the controller to send a command to the discard component for the player s holding position to discard the card to the card retrieval component . In another embodiment the control component can provide commands to the one or more components of the example apparatus in response to game flow operations for the game e.g. at a beginning of the game the controller can send commands to the card dealing component to begin dealing cards .

In the example embodiment of the example apparatus can comprise a means for transferring the deck of playing cards that has been evaluated to the card shuffler not shown and or the card delivery component . Further in one embodiment the card delivery component is configured to move to respective card holding positions of the card holding component in order to deliver playing cards from the deck. For example a linear actuator cable and pulley electromagnetic component or some other movement mechanism may be operably coupled with the card delivery component so that it can be moved along the card holding component to appropriate card holding positions when the cards are dealt from the deck.

In one embodiment a plurality of image capture components can be utilized in the example apparatus . In this embodiment depending on a desired card game the respective plurality of image capture components can be configured to capture an image of one or more cards at a same time. For example an apparatus may be configured with one camera for respective player s down cards e.g. two in Texas hold em one or more cameras for the up cards e.g. one for the flop and one or two for the river in Texas hold em and one for the discard or unseen cards e.g. the burn pile . In another embodiment the image capture components may be configured to be moved to one or more card holding positions . For example the image capture component may be coupled to the card delivery component such that the image capture component can move to respective card holding positions capture an image of the card delivered and move to a next position.

In one embodiment the card playing apparatus a deck of cards may be held in place for the card dealing component using a tray box or other container for holding in place the deck of cards. The card delivery component may comprise a counter weight assembly or spring element e.g. a compression or leaf spring or another conventional structure that is adapted to bias the cards in the deck toward the card dealing component. In one embodiment the card dealing component can comprise a picker arm with a card gripping surface defined by for example a suction cup as shown in .

In one embodiment a drive mechanism can be provided for example by a linkage cam assembly or other structure for pivoting for translating an arm of the dealing component through a back and forth motion such that the gripper e.g. suction cup moves from a start position to engage and remove the top card from the deck disengages from the top card returns to the start position and repeats this process to deal the cards. In alternative embodiments the card dealing component can comprise a rotary wheel with a plurality of card engaging surfaces e.g. suction cups or other soft plastic card gripping elements or another conventional structure adapted to remove the top card from the deck. Further an actuator for the card advancer may be provided by a conventional actuator such as a rotary or linear motor a solenoid a pneumatic or hydraulic cylinder or another actuator that drives the picker arm directly or using the a control mechanism.

In one embodiment the card holding component can receive the card from the card dealing component e.g. . In this embodiment the card can be transported from the card dealing component to the card holding component by a transport structure e.g. . In the example embodiment of for example the transport structure comprises a card delivery chute that extends from the card dealing component to a card holding position of the card holding component . In this example the depicted chute can be configured such that the cards which are in a generally horizontal orientation on top of the deck are permitted to pivot and slide under the influence of gravity into a generally vertical orientation and to the card holding position of the card holding component . As an illustrative example transport structure and other components can be made of a metal plastic or other suitable material. In alternative embodiments the transport structure can be comprise of a series of chutes by a conveyor e.g. a belt or chain conveyor or it is eliminated and the cards are transported directly from the card dealing mechanism to card holding component .

In one embodiment the card holding component may comprise a card rack with a series of card slots. The card rack can be made of a metal plastic or other suitable material can be elongate with the card slots arranged linearly along the length of the rack. In this embodiment the card slots may be sized and shaped to respectively house a desired number of cards e.g. one per slot . In this embodiment the card slots can respectively comprise a window through which a face or back of a housed card can be viewed e.g. from the first view position . The rack may be configured with a number and arrangement of card slots selected based on a card game to be played when using the real card playing apparatus e.g. of . As an example the rack may be configured for nine players to play Texas Hold em poker. As such the rack can comprise nine sets of slots with respective set comprising a pair of slots for the respective player s two down cards e.g. hole cards five slots for the five community cards e.g. up cards and one discard slot. As described above the discard slot can be used to burn a card for example before the flop i.e. the first three community cards the turn i.e. the fourth community card and the river i.e. the fifth community card .

In an alternative embodiment the rack may comprise one set of card slots per player with each set comprising five slots for five card draw or stud poker or seven slots for seven card stud poker for example. In another embodiment the rack can comprise one set of card slots per player with respective sets comprising a larger number e.g. eleven of slots for blackjack poker. A number of sets of card slots for example can be selected to match a maximum number of players in the game.

In one embodiment a card holding component rack comprising a given number of card holding positions card slots may be used to play a variety of different card games by programming the controller accordingly. That is for example the rack shown in comprises twenty six slots and the controller may be programmed for ten players to play Texas Hold em. However the controller can alternatively be programmed to use the rack for four players to play five card stud or draw e.g. with four extra unused slots three players to play seven card stud or draw with three extra unused slots etc. for example. Therefore in one embodiment a use of the slots may be defined by the controller not the rack .

In one embodiment the card holding component can be stationary and the card delivery component can traverse along the card holding component to dispense cards into the card holding positions. That is the card delivery component can move laterally along the card holding component to a selected card holding position and the card dealing component e.g. of can be actuated to remove a top card and deliver it through the card delivery component and into the selected holding position. To provide for this traversing movement the card delivery component can include a linear delivery assembly for example. In one embodiment the delivery assembly can comprise a track actuator with a track a block that slides along the track and an actuator that drives the sliding block along the track with the card delivery component mounted to the sliding block. In alternative embodiments the linear delivery assembly can comprise gearing drive belts chains or another conventional linear drive assembly that functions to selectively move the card delivery component linearly along the card holding component to position the delivery component adjacent the holding position. In other alternative embodiments the card delivery component can be stationary and the card holding component may traverse to selectively position the card holding position inlets in alignment with the card delivery component.

A gaming system may be devised that utilizes real cards in a display to online players. is a component diagram of an example system for providing an online card game using real cards. A real card playing component automatically deals playing cards from a deck of real playing cards to a card holding component for respective cards dealt during the card game. Further the real card playing component captures an image of the respective playing cards in the card holding component during the card game. Additionally the real card playing component automatically captures and arranges discarded playing cards for arrangement into the deck of real playing cards.

In the example system a card display component is operably coupled with the real card playing component . The card display component displays the image of respective playing cards as one or more played cards to one or more players of the card game during the card game. For example the card display component can use the captured image of a card e.g. a still image or live video feed to represent the player s card when displayed in the card game on the players screen instead of creating a virtualized version of the card e.g. a computer generated graphical representation of the card . In this way in this example respective players of the card game can actually see their card as it is played during the game. Further a potential of programming problems e.g. fraud cheating mistakes can be mitigated when the actual card is displayed to the player.

A control component controls an operation of the real card playing component in response to an action of a player of the card game and or appropriate game flow of the card game. For example the player can be connected to the online game over a network connection such as using their personal computer mobile device smartphone or other game playing device. In this example when the player performs an action that warrants a response in the card game e.g. folds the controller can respond to the online user s action by causing an appropriate response in the real card playing component e.g. discard the player s cards .

It will be appreciated that the term online can comprise a connection from a local device to a remote server such as a connection over the internet for example. Further online can comprise a local connection from a local device to a local server such as an onsite video poker machine connecting to an onsite server that comprises one or more components of the example systems described herein. Therefore as an illustrative example the systems described herein may be devised to employ an Internet based connection mobile network connection intranet connection or any other network or local communication between one or more of the system s components and an online player.

Further the game viewing component can display the image of the real card playing component to one or more players . For example one or more image capture devices e.g. cameras may be positioned to capture an image e.g. live video of the how the cards are handled by the real card playing component . Therefore respective players may choose to watch how the cards are handled such during collection shuffling dealing etc. In this way for example the player may have a heightened sense of fairness to the game by knowing that the cards are not being manipulated in an unfair manner.

In this embodiment the card display component can display a face of a player dealt card merely to the player dealt the card . That is for example an actual image of the player s down cards e.g. hole cards can be shown only to that player. Further the card display component can display a face of a common playing card to respective players of the card game . For example card game playing programs may utilize frames in the virtual card game that provide for displaying the captured image of the cards . In this example frames can be provided for the flop and the river e.g. or any other combination of cards played such as player s down cards common cards . Additionally the card display component can display a back of a down e.g. top of deck or discard playing card e.g. burn pile to respective players of the card game .

A card game operating component can provide a user interface to a player to play the online card game for example comprising the virtualized card game and actual images of the cards played during the game. Further the card game operating component can operate a flow of the online card game for one or more respective players . For example the card game operating component can perform virtualization tasks for the online players such as placing bets subtracting bets from accounts arranging players log in and out players provide typical game flow operations in the user interface etc. Additionally the card game operating component can activate actions in the real card playing component to accommodate the flow of the online card game. For example the card game operating component can be operably coupled with the controller and interpret actions from the online game such as from interaction by a player with the user interface. In this example the interpreted actions can be passed to the controller which can provide appropriate commands to the one or more components of the real card playing component to respond to the action s .

An integration component can integrate the one or more images of the one or more playing cards from the real card player into a virtual display of the card game . A security component can mitigate unauthorized access to the system mitigate unauthorized manipulation of the real card playing component and mitigate unauthorized access to one or more images of the playing card or real card playing component. For example in one embodiment the security component can be operably coupled with one or more component of the example system to provide security services. In one embodiment the security component may comprise programming and or hardware components. In one embodiment the security component may utilize components of the example system such as image capture components code scanning components and controller components to determine whether a security concern is present. In one embodiment the security component can perform an operation to mitigate the security concern e.g. deny access alert a secondary security protocol e.g. an administrator or a combination of these.

In one embodiment an optical character recognition OCR program may be utilized in connection with one or more of the image capture components of the real card player component for example to recognize a face value and suit of the cards. In addition the cards can be customized with codes as described above and programming may be used for reading the codes to recognize the face value and suit of the cards. In alternative embodiments a card image capture component can comprise merely a camera or only a code reader or by other conventional devices such as magnetic stripe scanners that read magnetic strips on customized cards by RE receivers transceivers that read RFID chips on customized cards etc.

In one embodiment the components of the exemplary system can comprise conventional computer components and programming for carrying operations of the system. Further components of the exemplary system may be connected to and or comprises on a server computer such as connect by a communications network for example. In one embodiment the exemplary system can be incorporated into a gaming system for playing any randomly generated card game using any type of communications device with a video display of the cards. The or more exemplary systems may be used for playing poker and other card games online with the server remotely located and connected to communications network for example.

A method may be devised that utilizes real cards in a display to online players. is a flow diagram of an example method for providing an online card game using real cards. The example method begins at and involves automatically preparing a deck of playing cards for use in the card game at . For example cards can be automatically mixed evaluated and shuffled in preparation for game play. At a playing card is automatically dealt to a card viewing position from the deck of playing cards. For example a mechanism can be used to automatically deal cards to respective players of an online game.

At an image of the dealt playing card is captured from the card viewing position. For example a camera can capture a still image of the card and or a camera may capture a live video feed e.g. or recorded video feed of the card. The image of the dealt playing card is displayed to an online player of the card game in a virtual display of one or more portions of the card game at . For example the image e.g. a video feed of the card can be displayed to one or more users by integrating the image into the virtual card game. In this example computer based card games typically comprise virtual representations e.g. not actual images of a card game. In this example instead of using virtualized representations of a player s or community card the actual image of the card is displayed to the one or more users as appropriate for the card game.

At one or more playing cards are manipulated in response to one or more actions from the online player. For example an action by a player in the online game can actually cause an automatic response that manipulates the playing card according to the players intended actions. Having manipulated the card in response to a player s action s the example method ends at .

At a live video feed can be captured for the respective card viewing positions for each player. For example one or more cameras may be deployed to capture images of the cards in the viewing positions. In one embodiment one camera may be used per viewing position. In an alternate embodiment a sufficient number of cameras may be used that appropriately capture images of the cards for the respective players for example while maintaining privacy of each players hand. At the live video of the dealt cards is displayed to each of the online player in a virtual display of the card game according to appropriate game conventions. For example in the five card draw game a virtual version of the game can be displayed to each player and each player can view a live video image of their down cards that are in the card viewing position.

At the playing card can be manipulated response to one or more actions from one or more online players. In this embodiment for example a player s action can comprise folding e.g. quitting the hand . In this example at when the player indicates a fold action in the virtual game or the game hand has ended this can indicate a removal action where the one or more player cards are removed from the game at . Further for example when a player indicates a deal action such as when starting a new hand or a hit action such as when taking another card in blackjack the card can be transferred from the deck to the viewing position e.g. new hand new card . Further when a player indicates a stay action for example a display action may be indicated that causes a face value of the card to be revealed at . For example if a player stays this may cause another player or dealer to show the face of their cards.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques and or system presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are can refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method system apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

