---

title: Customer-level macro business performance monitoring
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for client/customer-centric macro (e.g., business-wide) monitoring of business performance and determination of business-wide customer impact trends associated with the client's/customer's composite relationship with the business. Additionally, embodiments provide for determining customer impact trends at other levels of the business relationship, such as at business unit/line of business levels, product/service levels and the like. Based on the determined customer impact trends, further determinations may be made regarding whether alerts are warranted based on the trends, and generating and communicating the alerts if warranted. Determining business-wide customer impact trends provides for the business to identify problems or potential problems that may adversely impact the global relationship between the overall client entity and the business implementing the performance monitoring system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346597&OS=08346597&RS=08346597
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08346597
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for business performance monitoring and more particularly for customer level performance monitoring and determination of business wide customer impact trends that result in proactive response on behalf of the business to address the customer concerns.

Large enterprise entities such as worldwide corporations and the like have customers clients that engage with various different facets of the enterprise. For example a client may have an established business relationship with various different business units also referred to herein as lines of business throughout the large enterprise. Each of the various different business units may provide the client with one or more different products or services. Therefore any one customer client of the large enterprise may have business relationships with numerous different business units and may acquire numerous different products or services from the various different business units. In addition the customers clients may themselves be large enterprises or corporate entities made up of numerous subsidiaries regional branches national branches individual units and the like.

In general customer clients that have numerous business relationships with different business units within the large enterprise are considered to be high value customers clients in terms of the financial significance of the customer client to the large enterprise. In this regard if the high value customer client was to significant decrease their relationship with the large enterprise or completely terminate the relationship the large enterprise would be significantly affected from a financial standpoint. Thus it is imperative that large enterprises provide such high value customers clients with the highest level of service or customer care possible.

In most large enterprise corporations and the like the enterprise tracks business performance at the business unit level and at the product service level. Such performance tracking allows for the enterprise to gauge their business performance as it applies to a specific customer client within the business unit and or for a particular product service. However since such systems are business unit centric and or product service centric they often fail to properly identify a potential customer client problem or address client to client variances in what is important to a client customer in terms of business performance e.g. timeliness quality cost etc. . Such business unit or product service level performance monitoring is limited to only identifying a customer client problem or a potential problem within that particular business unit or for that particular product service. In addition the business unit or product service level aspect of the monitoring means that business performance metrics being tracked and or monitored are often static metrics that are defined by the business unit or the product service line based on their specific needs.

A problem arises when such business unit or product service performance monitoring is unable to identify potential problems that may exist or may be trending toward existence for the entire relationship with client customer. For example while performance metrics for the customer client related to one or more business units or product service lines may be at acceptable levels if the performance metrics were to be aggregated across all business units and or all product service lines the overall customer client performance metrics may indicate a business wide performance trend that globally impacts the customer client and requires the enterprise to take necessary corrective action. For example if consistently moderate levels of adverse performance metrics exist across multiple business units and or product lines the global impact of such performance metrics may go undetected by a large enterprise business. In the event such global impact goes undetected by the large enterprise the large enterprise can not be proactive in address the business performance problem prior to the problem being escalated by the customer and or adversely affecting the business relationship with the customer client on a global level.

In another example performance metrics at the business unit or product service line level may only gauge business performance for each customer client unit e.g. subsidiaries regional branches national branches individual units and the like and may fail to take into account business performance for the customer client in whole.

Therefore a need exists to provide for a system that provides client customer centric macro e.g. business wide monitoring of business performance. The desired system should provide for monitoring business performance metrics for a client customer across any and or all of the areas of the business enterprise that the client customer has a relationship with such as different business units lines of business different product service lines and the like. The result of the monitoring should be the identification of business wide business customer impact trends that may adversely affect the customer client as a whole or at the individual customer client unit level. Moreover the desired system should additionally provide for identifying business unit and or product service level business performance trends that may adversely affect the customer client as a whole or individual customer client units that comprise the customer client. In addition to identification of the customer impact trends the desired system should provide for automated means for notifying applicable corrective action entities within the large enterprise such as customer service personnel or the like for the purpose to taking necessary corrective action to mitigate or eliminate the business performance impact trend.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for client customer centric macro e.g. business wide monitoring of business performance. Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide for enterprise wide business wide monitoring of performance metrics at the client level in addition to monitoring at secondary levels such as business unit or line of business levels tertiary levels such as product service line levels and so on. The performance metrics may be identified by the business entity implementing the system and or the performance metrics may be configured by the client customer. Based on monitored business performance metrics business wide customer impact trends may be determined for the client or any divisible unit of the client in addition to determining business unit and or product service level performance trends associated with the customer client and or any customer client unit. What constitutes a business performance trend may be defined by the business entity implementing the system and may be based on inputs or trend criteria from the customer client.

According to further embodiments of the invention based on determination of customer impact trends decisions are made as to whether the impact trend warrants an automated notification alert to be communicated to a requisite entity within the business such as a customer service department representative or the like. Alerts may serve to immediately notify a business entity of a negative business performance impact trend associated with a client customer so that the business may immediately address corrective actions needed to mitigate or eliminate the negative business performance trend.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide for a dashboard type application whereby the business entity implementing the system of the present invention can track monitored business performance metrics and assess determined customer impact trends for selected customers on a primary level e.g. business enterprise wide basis a secondary level e.g. business unit line of business level a tertiary basis e.g. a product service level and so on. The dashboard application may be further configured to send and or receive impact trend notifications alerts to provide the user of immediate notification of an impact trend affecting a customer.

In addition to identification of the customer impact trends the desired system should provide for automated means for notifying applicable corrective action entities within the large enterprise such as customer service personnel or the like for the purpose to taking necessary corrective action to mitigate or eliminate the business performance impact trend.

A method for managing business performance at an individual customer level provides for first embodiments of the invention. The method includes monitoring via a computing device processor a plurality of business performance metrics associated with a customer determining via a computing device processor one or more business wide customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics and storing in computing device memory the one or more customer impact trends.

In further specific embodiments the method includes determining via a computing device processor if one or more of the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant generating an alert and communicating via a computing device a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted.

In still further specific embodiments the method includes determining via a computing device processor one or more business unit related e.g. line of business related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. In such embodiments the method may further include determining via a computing device processor if one or more of the one or more business unit related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide related customer impact trends warrant an alert and communicating via a computing device a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In further specific embodiments determining if one or more of the one or more business unit related customer impact trends warrant an alert further includes aggregating results of business unit related customer impact trends from different business units to determine if corrective action is warranted.

In other specific embodiments the method includes determining via a computing device processor one or more product related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. In such embodiments the method may further include determining via a computing device processor if one or more of the one or more product related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrants an alert corrective action and communicating via a computing device a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In further specific embodiments determining if one or more of the one or more product related customer impact trends warrant an alert further includes aggregating results of product related customer impact trends from different products to determine if corrective action is warranted.

Moreover in further specific embodiments the method includes determining via a computing device processor one or more customer unit related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. The customer unit may be specific place of business such as a retail location a specific geographic region encompassing place s of business such as city a region or the like or any other customer defined entity that is characterized as a unit. In such embodiments the method may further include determining via a computing device processor if one or more of the one or more customer unit related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrants an alert and communicating via a computing device a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In further specific embodiments determining if one or more of the one or more customer unit customer impact trends warrant corrective action further includes aggregating results of customer related customer impact trends from different customer units to determine if corrective action is warranted.

An apparatus for managing business performance at an individual customer level defines second embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including a memory and at least one processor. The apparatus further includes a customer based business performance management application stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The application includes a business performance monitoring routing configured to monitor a plurality of business performance metrics associated with a customer. The application further includes a business performance trend determination routine configured to determine one or more business wide customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics and store the one or more business wide customer impact trends in the memory.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the customer based business management application further includes an alert determination and communication routine configured to determine if one or more of the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant an alert and initiate communication of a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the business performance trend determination routine is further configured to determine one or more business unit related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. In such embodiments of the apparatus the customer based business management application may include an alert determination routine configured to determine if one or more of the one or more business unit related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant an alert and initiate communication of a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In such embodiments of the apparatus the alert determination routine may be further configured to aggregate results of business unit related customer impact trends from different business units to determine if corrective action is warranted.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the business performance trend determination routine is further configured to determine one or more product related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. In such embodiments of the apparatus the customer based business management application further includes an alert determination routine configured to determine if one or more of the one or more product related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant an alert and initiate communication of a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In further such embodiments the alert determination routine may be further configured to aggregate results of product related customer impact trends from different products to determine if corrective action is warranted.

Moreover in further related embodiments of the apparatus the business performance trend determination routine is further configured to determine one or more customer unit related customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics. In such embodiments the customer based business management application may further include an alert determination routine configured to determine if one or more of the one or more customer unit related customer impact trends or the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant an alert and initiate communication of a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted. In further related embodiments the alert determination routine may be further configured to aggregate results of customer unit related customer impact trends from different customer units to determine if corrective action is warranted.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium provides for third embodiments of the invention. The computer program product includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to monitor a plurality of business performance metrics associated with a customer a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine one or more business wide customer impact trends based on the plurality of business performance metrics and a third set of codes for causing a computer to store the one or more customer impact trends. In further embodiments of the computer program product the medium includes a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to determine if one or more of the one or more business wide customer impact trends warrant an alert and a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to communicate a customer impact alert to a corrective action entity if an alert is determined to be warranted.

Based on these determined future financial transactions obligations the financial institution can provide real time financial advice such as financial advice alerts or the like to a customer who is contemplating or otherwise in the vicinity of conducting a financial transaction such as a purchase transaction. For example the financial advice alert may remind the customer of an imminent recurring financial obligation such as an upcoming mortgage rent automobile payment or the like. Additionally the financial advice alert may provide indication that the pending transaction that the customer is contemplating or in the process of conducting will provide for a projected account deficit or non sufficient funds occurrence in light of the future financial obligation. As a result of the financial advice alerts herein disclosed customers are able to make informed decisions regarding contemplated financial transactions.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for client customer centric macro e.g. business wide monitoring of business performance and determination of business wide customer impact trends associated with the client s customer s composite relationship with the business. Additionally embodiments provide for determining customer impact trends at other levels of the business relationship such as at business unit line of business levels product service levels and the like. Determining business wide customer impact trends associated with a client s composite relationship with a business provides for the business to identify problems or potential problems that may adversely impact the global relationship between the overall client entity such a large corporate entity or conglomerate and the business implementing the performance monitoring system.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for client customer centric macro e.g. business wide monitoring of business performance and determination of business wide customer impact trends associated with the client s customer s composite relationship with the business. Determining business wide customer impact trends associated with a client s composite relationship with a business provides for the business to identify problems or potential problems that may adversely impact the global relationship between the overall client entity such a large corporate entity or conglomerate and the business implementing the performance monitoring system.

Additional embodiments provide for determining customer impact trends at other levels of the business relationship such as at business unit line of business levels product service levels and the like. By providing for determination of customer impact trends at levels other than business enterprise wide the business is able to easily determine the root cause of business enterprise wide customer impact trends and rectify isolated customer impact trends that may not affect the client on a macro level.

Further embodiments of the invention provide for determining whether the customer impact trends rise to the level or otherwise necessitate generation and communication of alerts which serve to notify a business entity such as customer service or the like that an adverse performance impact trend associated with the client has been determined and requires immediate attention. In specific embodiments the alerts once determined to be warranted are generated and communicated automatically. Immediate attention and or corrective action on behalf of the alert recipient mitigates or eliminates the problems surrounding the adverse performance impact trend. Such automated communication of alerts provide for corrective action to ensue immediately after a negative impact performance trend is determined so as mitigate the trend or eliminate further trending.

The memory of apparatus stores customer based performance management application that is configured to monitor business performance metrics associated with customers clients and determine performance trends based on the monitored performance metrics. For the purpose of this invention the terms customer and client are used interchangeable to refer to the entity that is provided products or services by the business. In certain embodiments of the invention the business may implement the system to provide monitoring and performance impact trend determination for customers clients deemed to be high value customers clients customers that significantly impact the financial performance of the business.

Thus the performance management application includes business performance monitoring routine configured to monitor business performance metrics associated with a customer client . The business performance metrics that are monitored will vary depending on the business the customer client and the relationship between the business and the customer client. As such the business performance metrics may be configured by the business entity implementing the performance management system the customer client or a combination of the business entity and customer client. Thus in certain embodiments of the invention the monitored business performance metrics will vary from customer to customer. In certain embodiments of the invention the business performance metrics may associated with quality timeliness reliability or any other facet of the relationship deemed to impact the customer client.

As noted the performance management application is configured to be a customer based application provides for monitoring of performance metrics on a customer client basis. This customer centric approach provides for the business performance monitoring routine to monitor business performance metrics across the entire business in particular across all aspects of a global type enterprise business such as all subsidiaries business units lines of business product service lines and the like.

Further customer based performance management application includes performance trend determination routine that is configured to determine business wide customer impact trends associated with customers clients based on the monitored performance metrics. Business wide as defined herein means across all facets of the business including but not limited to divisions subsidiaries business units lines of business product service lines and the like. As such business wide customer impact trends take into account performance metrics measured across the entire business. Business wide impact trends are instrumental in identifying problems and or potential problems that might otherwise go unrecognized if trend analysis is limited to business unit line of business product service line or the like. This is because business wide impact trends aggregate the performance metrics business wide in determining if a trend exists. The aggregation of the performance metrics may lead to determination of a trend where trend analysis on another secondary or higher level e.g. business unit line of business product service line might otherwise not result in a trend. For example if pluralities of business unit line of business or product line performance metrics consistently show moderate levels of impact the global impact may go unnoticed unless the performance metrics are aggregated or otherwise considered into total to determine an adverse global impact trend.

An impact trend is defined as a predetermined rate of movement in the performance metrics over time or a consistent rate over time that may or has shown to adversely impact the customer client. As such what constitutes an impact trend may be defined by the business entity implementing the system the customer client or a combination of the business entity and the customer client. Thus according to specific embodiments impact trends may vary from customer to customer.

Additionally customer impact trends may be determined based on predetermined thresholds dynamic thresholds spectral analysis fuzzy logic linear regression modeling Empirical Mode Decomposition EMD modeling or any other trend determining algorithm. For example a threshold may be defined as a predetermined number of occurrences of an event over a predetermined period of time such that if the number of occurrences is met or exceeded a trend is determined to exist. Dynamic thresholds may provide for near real time variance of the number of occurrences of an event and or the period of time for the occurrences based on ancillary attributes such as the number of previous related trends the number of previous customer inquires related to the trend performance metric the time of year month week day etc or the like.

Referring to an apparatus is shown that is configured for managing business performance at the customer level and includes various different alternate embodiments of the invention. Similar to the apparatus of apparatus includes computing platform having at least one processor and a memory . The memory stores customer based performance monitoring application configured to monitor performance metrics and determine customer impact trends based on the monitored performance metrics.

The customer based performance monitoring application includes business performance monitoring routine configured to monitor business performance metrics . In specific embodiments the business performance metrics include secondary level performance metrics such as but not limited to business unit performance metrics line of business performance metrics subsidiary performance metrics or the like. Business performance metrics additionally include tertiary level performance metrics such as but not limited to product service line performance metrics or the like. Reference herein to product or product line is construed to include a service or service line. In addition while tertiary performance metrics are depicted in to be included within the secondary level performance metrics in other embodiments they may exist as individual entities outside of the secondary performance metrics . Moreover while secondary and tertiary level performance metrics are depicted business performance metrics may in other embodiments include further levels of performance metrics.

In other specific embodiments the business performance metrics include customer unit performance metrics which comprise any divisible unit of the customer such a grouping of customer units within a geographic region specific units branches locations or the like. The customer unit performance metrics include secondary level performance metrics secondary level performance metrics associated with the specified customer unit such as but not limited to business unit performance metrics line of business performance metrics subsidiary performance metrics or the like. Customer unit performance metrics additionally include tertiary level performance metrics associated with the specified customer unit such as but not limited to product service line performance metrics or the like.

The customer based performance monitoring application additionally includes performance trend determination routine configured to determine customer impact trends based on the monitored business performance metrics . In addition to determining business wide customer impact trends as discussed in relation to alternate embodiments of the invention provide for determining secondary level impact trends such as business unit line of business trends tertiary level impact tends such as product service line impact trends and customer unit customer impact trends such as a geographic region impact trends specific unit branch location impact trends or the like. In addition while secondary and tertiary level performance levels are depicted impact trends may in other embodiments include further levels of impact trends.

By providing for impact trends at levels other than business wide the monitoring application of the present invention is able to better assess isolated instances of impact trends adversely affecting the customer and determine the root cause of business wide customer impact trends. Similar to the business wide impact trends discussed in relation to the secondary level tertiary level and customer unit impact trends and may be determined based on predetermined thresholds dynamic thresholds spectral analysis fuzzy logic linear regression modeling Empirical Mode Decomposition EMD modeling or any other trend determining algorithm.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of apparatus according to embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus is configured to provide monitoring of business performance metrics and determination of customer impact trends based on the monitoring. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of computing device.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as customer based performance monitoring application or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with customer based performance monitoring application or sub routines sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and communicating impact trend alerts to a requisite business entity such as a customer service representative.

As described in relation to the memory stores customer based performance monitoring application configured to monitor performance metrics and determine customer impact trends based on the monitored performance metrics. The customer based performance monitoring application includes business performance monitoring routine configured to monitor business performance metrics which according to specific embodiments include secondary level performance metrics such as but not limited to business unit performance metrics line of business performance metrics subsidiary performance metrics or the like tertiary level performance metrics such as but not limited to product service line performance metrics or the like and customer unit performance metrics which comprise any divisible unit of the customer such a grouping of customer units within a geographic region specific units branches locations or the like.

The customer based performance monitoring application additionally includes performance trend determination routine configured to determine customer impact trends based on the monitored business performance metrics . In addition to determining business wide customer impact trends alternate embodiments of the invention provide for determining secondary level impact trends such as business unit line of business trends tertiary level impact tends such as product service line impact trends and customer unit customer impact trends such as a geographic region impact trends specific unit branch location impact trends or the like.

According to specific embodiments of the invention the customer based performance monitoring application may further include trend prioritization determination routine configured to determine a trend priority listing for the plurality of customer impact trends determined by performance trend determination routine . The prioritization may be based on criteria defined by the business implementing the performance monitoring system the customer client or a combination of both the business and the customer client. In specific embodiments trend prioritization determination routine may be used in conjunction with alert determination and generation routine such that the prioritization determination routine is configured to define which impact trends are significant enough to warrant alerts being generated.

Thus according to other specific embodiments of the invention the customer based performance monitoring application may further include alert determination and generation routine that is configured to determine if a customer impact trend warrants an alert and if so to generate and initiate communication of the alert to one or more predetermined business entities such as customer service representatives or the like. Customer impact alerts serve to immediately notify the designated business entity of customer impact trends as they occur thereby allowing the business entity to perform necessary corrective action to mitigate or otherwise eliminate the customer impact trend. In specific embodiments not every determined customer impact trend will dictate an alert only those customer impact trends that are deemed important or significant enough will warrant customer impact alerts. As such alert determination and generation routine includes alert criteria which define the criteria for generating an alert for a specific customer impact trend. The criteria may include but is not limited to the type of customer impact trend the rate of the customer impact trend the business products affected by the customer impact trend and the like.

Alert determination and determination routine additionally includes alert recipient list which includes a listing of designated business entities such as customer service representatives or the like configured to receive the alert . The recipient list may be configured to define which business entity receives what particular type of alerts and the communication means for communicating the alert to the business entity. Communication means may include but are not limited to dashboard notification electronic mail Short Message Service SMS text voice mail or the like. An alert recipient may configure the application to communicate the alert to the recipient using one or more designated communication means. The recipient list may additionally be configured to include a hierarchy listing of alert recipients which provides for next in line designated recipients to be notified of the alert if the preceding alert recipient has not responded to the alert or otherwise acknowledged receipt of the alert . In alternate embodiments of the invention the application may be configured to send the alerts to a customer entity to notify the customer of the customer impact trends.

In still further embodiments of the invention the customer based performance management application includes customer based performance monitoring dashboard application configured to provide network accessibility to customer client based performance metric data customer impact trend data and alert data . The dashboard application may be configured to provide network accessibility to such data to the representatives employees of the business implementing the performance monitoring system or in alternate embodiments full or limited accessibility to the customers. The dashboard application allows for the configuration of various aspects of the performance monitoring application including but not limited to the business performance metrics the customer impact trends and and alerts . Additionally the dashboard application provides for a visual representation of each customer s macro i.e. business wide relationship with the business in terms of tracking performance metrics customer impact trends customer impact alerts and the like. In addition to visual representation of the macro relationship the dashboard application may provide for drill down capabilities that visually represent the secondary level relationships such business unit line of business or the like the tertiary level relationships such as product service line or the like and any other level of the relationship. Additionally the dashboard application provides for visual representation that shows the tracking of performance metrics customer impact trends alerts and the like at the customer unit level such as customer divisions geographical regions individual units locations and the like.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for managing business performance at a customer level in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a plurality of business performance metrics associated with a customer are monitored via a computing device processor. The business performance metrics may be defined by the business implementing the method by the customer associated with the business performance metrics or a combination of both the business and the customer. As such the business performance metrics that are being monitored may vary from customer to customer depending on the specific needs and concerns of the business and or the customer. The business performance metric may include any measurable indice related to the business such as but not limited to quality related metrics timeliness related metrics reliability related metrics and the like.

At Event one or more business wide customer impact trends are determined based on the plurality of business performance metrics. Customer impact trends define an adverse trend related to the business performance metrics such as occurrence of performance events at a predetermined rate or the like. Business wide as defined herein means across all facets of an enterprise business including but not limited to divisions subsidiaries business units lines of business product service lines and the like. As such business wide customer impact trends take into account performance metrics measured across the entire business. In addition to business wide customer impact trends alternate embodiments of the invention provide for determining secondary level customer impact trends such as business unit line of business based on the business performance metrics tertiary level customer impact trends such as product service line or the like customer unit customer impact trends such as customer division geographic region customer location site or the like or other customer impact trends associated with a portion of the business.

At Event the one or more customer impact trends are stored in computing device memory. In addition in alternate embodiments the customer impact trends and the business performance trends may be communicated to a dashboard application configured to provide business associates and or customer associates network access to a customer s business performance metrics impact trends and the like.

At optional Event a computing device processor determines if one or more of the business wide customer impact trends warrant generating an alert. An alert may be generated if the customer impact trend meets or exceeds predetermined criteria for generating an alert. The predetermined criteria may include but is not limited to the type of customer impact trend the rate of the customer impact trend the time of the day week month year of the impact trend and the like. In addition to determine of alerts are warranted for the business wide customer impact trends in alternate embodiments alerts may be determined to be warranted for secondary level customer impact trends tertiary level customer impact trends customer unit customer impact trends and the like.

At optional Event the customer impact alert is generated and communicated to a business entity if the alert is determined to be warranted. The alert serves to notify the designated business entity such as a dashboard application or a customer service representative of a significant customer impact trend and allows for the business entity to take immediate action to mitigate or otherwise eliminate the adverse impact trend. The alert may be communicated via one or more predetermined communication means such as email text voice message or the like.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for client customer centric macro e.g. business wide monitoring of business performance and determination of business wide customer impact trends associated with the client s customer s composite relationship with the business. Additionally embodiments provide for determining customer impact trends at other levels of the business relationship such as at business unit line of business levels product service levels and the like. Determining business wide customer impact trends associated with a client s composite relationship with a business provides for the business to identify problems or potential problems that may adversely impact the global relationship between the overall client entity such a large corporate entity or conglomerate and the business implementing the performance monitoring system.

Once performance trends have been determined assessments are made as to whether the trends rise to the level that necessitates immediate attention on behalf of the business to mitigate or eliminate the trend if so alerts or other notifications are communicated to proper business entities such as customer service or the like to resolve the problem s associated with adverse performance trends. Such automated communication of alerts provide for corrective action to ensue immediately after a negative impact performance trend is determined so as mitigate or eliminate further trending.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

