---

title: System and method for providing a site-related weather insurance contract
abstract: The invention relates to a system for providing a site-related weather insurance contract for a product, such as an agricultural product like seeds or fertilizer. The system comprises a central data processing unit (CDPU), a remote measurement device (RMD) for the measurement of site-dependent weather parameters, and a remote data processing unit (RDPU) of a retailer. The RMD measures and provides the site-dependent weather parameters as remotely measured data. The RMD communicates the remotely measured data to a CDPU. The RDPU generates a data set (RDPU data) an insurance ID code and communicates the RDPU data to a CDPU. The CDPU receives the RDPU data and generates an individual contract confirmation code and communicates it to at least one remote communication device (UCD). The invention further relates to a method and a retailer remote communication device (RRCD), computer software, and a data storage medium, each usable with the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510195&OS=08510195&RS=08510195
owner: Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture
number: 08510195
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100201
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT EP2010 000584 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A SITE RELATED WEATHER INSURANCE CONTRACT filed Feb. 1 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a system and a method for providing a site related weather insurance contract. Where applicable the invention also relates to a business method for providing a site related weather insurance contract for insuring individual products.

In farming investments in products like seeds fertilizer or crop protection products can be lost due to random extreme cultivation conditions particularly weather situations like drought excess rain heat frost flood or pests or diseases which were found out to be often related to specific weather situations or earthquakes. For farmers an insurance of agricultural products is desired to limit the risk of losing an investment. For the vendor selling such an insurance the criteria for evaluating the occurrence of an event insured must be reliably known and measured in particular independently of the farmer. Traditional agricultural insurance is based on individual yields and field inspections to assess losses. Inspections of individual farms for evaluating the occurrence of an event insured must be conducted reliably and objectively. In particular in developing countries the costs involved by the traditional approach of assessing losses can be particularly high due to small farm sizes and the condition of the communication and transport infrastructure. Another problem involved in evaluating the losses is that farmers will always have more information on their actual yields and their farm practices than the insurer. Manipulation of the relevant information which is provided to the insurer to evaluate the losses is a serious risk. Farm data and farm output could be influenced and insurance could be availed of when a claim for payoff is more likely. To afford such a system higher premium rated for coverage have to be charged therefore and the field inspectors have to be trained and controlled to keep the system running. Therefore the administration of such a system can be very expensive and such an insurance is therefore available only for large farmers with e.g. more than 150 acres.

Alternative approaches known for agricultural insurance utilize a specially designed measure or index which is related to the risk being hedged against i.e. the local weather. Local weather indices are ideally highly correlated to local yields. Such a weather insurance is based on the occurrence of a weather event rather than actual losses such as crop failure. Compensations are initiated by pre specified patterns of an index not by actual losses. This dependence on factors beyond the influence of farmers enhances the reliability and objectivity of the system. It also eliminates the need for field inspections which reduces costs.

However said known systems for agricultural insurance are usually based on the insurance of loans and are distributed through banks. Therefore the technical effort to participate in such a system is often too large. For example banks are usually located in industrial centers far away from the farmer s location which makes the business processes between the bank and the farmer expensive. Also a relatively large administrational effort is required and the individual farmer has to be able in economical and intellectual respect to participate in such a system. However most farmers do not have the possibility to access such a system based on loans or bank accounts. As a result for small and medium sized farmers in particular in developing countries generally no affordable agricultural insurance is possible so far. It was reported for example that in the year 2007 a fraction of 92 of the population of Kenya never used an insurance product wherein as the main reason it was stated by these people that they could not afford it.

Therefore a solution is required that reduces the technical effort for providing an insurance for individual products to be sold to individual users while still being affordable and offer meaningful protection on a larger scale.

The problem is solved by providing a system according to claim a method according to claim a retailer remote communication device RRCD according to claim a computer software according to claim a data storage medium e.g. an insurance card according to claim and a packaging according to claim . Preferred embodiments of the present invention are subject matter of the subclaims.

The system according to the present invention for providing a site related weather insurance contract for a product to be sold to at least one individual user in particular of an agricultural product like seeds or fertilizer comprises at least one central data processing unit CDPU preferably at least one remote measurement device RMD for the measurement of site dependent weather parameters at least one remote data processing unit RDPU of a retailer the at least one RMD being adapted to measure and provide the site dependent weather parameters as remotely measured data each RMD having an individual RMD identification ID code assigned to it each RMD being adapted to communicate the remotely measured data to a CDPU each RDPU being adapted to generate a data set RDPU data comprising at least product data possibly including an insurance ID code an RMD ID code and a user ID code the RDPU being further adapted to communicate the RDPU data to a CDPU the CDPU being adapted to receive the RDPU data and to generate thereof an individual contract confirmation code the CDPU being further adapted to communicate said individual contract confirmation code to at least one remote communication device UCD of an individual user. Examples of agricultural products include but are not limited to seeds insecticides herbicides fungicides plant health products rooted cuttings or fertilizer.

The system according to the invention utilizes a unique combination of specially adapted devices in particular the RDPUs the CDPUs and preferably the RMDs. By this system the information which is necessary to be exchanged for entering into a contract between the vendor and the purchaser of an individual agricultural input in combination with an individual product insurance can for the first time be transferred between the involved parties in a reliable and affordable manner. This way individual insurance of individual products for individual users becomes available for small and medium sized farmers for the first time which is of particular significance for the micro economy and prosperity of developing countries in particular.

The meaning of the devices of the system and their preferred embodiments are explained in the following.

Retailers equipped with an individual remote data processing unit RDPU are distributed over a country and work as stockists and contact persons for the individual users in particular farmers who are the customers for buying a product bundle consisting of an agricultural product and a financial service i.e. the weather insurance.

Preferably the system provides at least one retailer remote communication device RRCD which preferably is said RDPU or which preferably contains or is connected to said RDPU. The RRCD can be an electronic device which is capable of processing digital data of importing and exporting data and in particular capable of communicating with external devices and which is operable by an individual retailer. The RRCD preferably is a portable device i.e. preferably with a mass lower than respectively preferred 10 kg 5 kg 2 kg 0.5 kg or 0.3 kg is preferably a managed communication device i.e. a commercial communication device whose communication capability is limited to the communication with a CDPU of the system e.g. is a managed mobile phone device which preferably uses an established standard telecommunication network like GSM or UMTS for communication.

The RRCD preferably comprises import means which can comprise a camera a bar code scanner for one dimensional 1D barcodes two dimensional 2D QR codes or different codes an radio frequency identification RFID chip reader and or writer a keyboard a fingerprint reader or the like for importing a product data an ID code an insurance type ID code an RMD ID code and or a user ID code. Preferably such import means allow for a simple operability of the RRCD in the system which reduces the probability of errors occuring during the operation of the RRCD by a retailer. This way the system works more reliably.

Preferably the RRCD utilizes a 2D scanner to import data to be processed by the RDPU. A 2D scanner can be adapted to scan so called Quick Response codes QR codes which comprise a square matrix containing black and white pixels which represent a binary code. The code contains a specific information and provides redundancy such that reading errors can be compensated to a certain amount which makes the system more reliable. A scanner in particular a 1D or 2D scanner can be a camera a digital camera or other means which is capable of reading a visually represented code and decode it to receive the information contained in the code. Said code preferably is a system code or represents a system code wherein a system code preferably is unique for the system according to the invention generally.

Preferably the RRCD and or the RDPU is adapted to decode a system code which can be an item code or can contain an item code. A system code shows information which is relevant for the system according to the invention. Such system relevant information can be the product data which contains information on the product to be sold to an individual user.

The product data can comprise information on the physical product to be sold to a user e.g. an agricultural input product like for example the type of crop crop protection or fertilizer. In particular the product data can contain a product ID code which is selected to unambiguously identify a certain type of a product or agricultural product the product ID code preferably being a product name a letter combination a digit a number digit combination or another code.

Moreover the product data preferably contains an insurance ID code which identifies the kind of weather insurance which is related to a certain product. Possible kinds of weather insurances are for example insurances against drought excess rain pests and disease frost flood storms hail earthquakes or other events which can be relevant for the value of a purchased agricultural product or which can be harmful for the quality of the product or its application. Therefore the product data can represent information on both the agricultural product and the financial service insurance if sold in combination as a bundle of product and service. Therefore the term product can also refer to the combination of a physical product and a service in particular to the combination of an agricultural product and the financial service insurance in the present description of the invention. However the insurance ID code can also be separate from the product ID code or the insurance type and can be provided as separate insurance code or another data combination which contains the insurance ID code and additional data.

Moreover the product data preferably contain information on the amount of the physical product sold to a user preferably expressed in the mass of the product e.g. expressed in kg or the volume of the product e.g. expressed in litres or dm. However the information on the amount of the physical product can also be separate from the product ID code or the product data and can be provided as separate information on the amount of the physical product or another data combination which contains the information on the amount of the physical product and additional data.

The product data preferably is coded as a single visually represented code preferably a QR code. This offers the advantage that reading and decoding the product data can be performed easily in an error tolerant way and fast which makes the system more efficient. Preferably a QR code is read by the digital camera of an RRCD of a retailer. For said purpose it is preferred that a QR code list is provided to the system which shows the correlation of the product data which is related to the code in particular the name of the agricultural product e.g. Crop type 1 and or the amount of the product e.g. 2 kg and or the type of insurance e.g. against Excess rain . Furthermore the list can contain the prices which are associated to a product.

Preferably the RRCD and or the RDPU is a portable electronic device and preferably is configured to perform computer program controlled functions said functions being for example importing of data by means of an import device. Preferably the RRCD and or the RDPU comprises or is regionally or locally linked to devices which comprise respectively preferred 

Preferably the RRCD of a retailer is adapted to generate a data set RDPU data comprising at least the product data preferably an RMD ID code and preferably a user ID code the RDPU being adapted to communicate the RDPU data to a CDPU. A user ID code can be a mobile phone number if the user possesses a mobile phone which in this case preferably is used as a remote communication device UCD of the user to confirm the contract to the user preferably to also pay potential compensation via a payment system based on mobile communication and to deliver other information to the user. Moreover a user ID code can be any code which identifies a user within the system.

The RDPU data can further comprise a retailer identification code retailer ID code which identifies the retailer. This is useful for assigning purchases and contracts to an individual retailer which allows to set up a central database located preferably in or in connection with a CDPU. This way provisions for successfully confirmed contracts can be assigned booked and paid to a retailer. Moreover a retailer can be identified who is assigned to a specific contract for which the system indicates that a compensation is due. The retailer preferably redistributes a certain percentage of the compensation or preferably the full compensation in the form of a physical agricultural product e.g. seeds instead of money. However the retailer can also distribute the compensation to the user in the form of money. Usually the compensation in the form of money is initiated or paid out by the insurance company. However cashless compensation payoff is preferred see below .

Preferably the RDPU data can provide additional information on the purchaser user information on the geographical position of the transmitting RRCD or RDPU e.g. GPS data or Galileo data or other data.

Being adapted for communication preferably means in the context of the present invention that a device e.g. the RRCD RDPU CDPU RMD or UCD provides means which allow the communication sending and or receiving of digital data or signals with another device or individual which is in particular part of the system. Such communication means can comprise input output interfaces e.g. connections for wired communication or e.g. antennas for a wireless communication. A communication between devices can be installed for permanent data or signal exchange or for intermediate data or signal exchange for example for exchanging sending and or receiving data upon a request of a first individual or device e.g. the CDPU. Communications means preferably are adapted for utilizing a commercial telecommunication network for example a GSM network UMTS network using GRPS SMS USSD the Internet via WAN LAN WLAN VPN or other wired or wireless remote data networks. Preferably a device of the system in particular an RMD and or an RDPU is adapted to automatically and or semi automatically and or initiated manually communicate data in particular the measured parameters or the RDPU data respectively in particular upon request of the CDPU. Preferably the system is adapted or optimized to require only a reduced data traffic i.e. reduced transferred data volume and a reduced amount of numbers of establishments of communications e.g. phone calls for fulfil its tasks in particular for confirming contracts. This saves money and makes the insurance product even more affordable for smallholder farmers.

Preferably the RRCD and or the RDPU is configured to perform computer program controlled functions said functions being for example to control the subdevices which are contained in or connected to the RRCD or RDPU for example the function of importing data by means of an import device. This preferably means that the RRCD or RDPU contains programmable data processing means as for example a microprocessor or a programmable ROM e.g. EEPROM. The RRCD preferably is a commercial communication device as for example a personal computer PC notebook netbook PDA tabloid PC or the like a mobile phone which preferably is a managed mobile phone a commercial managed mobile phone a commercial smart phone iPhone or the like. The communication device preferably is basically operated by a commercial operating system which preferably is Symbian OS but can be another OS like for example Mac OS X iPhone OS Android Maemo Palm OS WebOS or Windows Mobile. Additional software means like for example a Java Platform can be provided to run the computer software according to the invention.

The invention in particular relates to a computer software or application e.g. a computer program code which can be executed to control functions related to the system according to the invention. The computer software preferably is a Java application. Respective preferred features individually or in combination of the computer software or the application comprise 

The application provides the possibility to be configured preferably via a configuration menu to respectively preferably alone or in combination 

The computer software is preferably adapted to be run on an RRCD or RDPU of the system according to the invention. The RRCD or the RDPU is preferably adapted to be functionally limited to the functions which are provided by the computer software according to the invention such that preferably in the case of a commercial mobile phone only the application according to the invention can be executed preventing the possibilities of performing conventional telephone calls sending conventional SMS and making use of other conventional mobile services. However such a programmed lock is possible but not obligatory and preferably is adjustable and can be preferably activated or deactivated preferably remotely e.g. by a CDPU or an administrator by using password protection means or other security means.

Preferably a single central data processing unit CDPU is provided to the system. However more than one CDPU can be provided which allows to make the system more secure in terms of backup and or redundancy or flexible to use and to administrate. In particular it is preferred that the system provides at least one and preferably at least two CDPUs or two CDPUs. Preferably the CDPU is adapted to receive the remotely measured data from a specific RMD and to evaluate the data. Preferably the CDPU is permanently or at least intermittently connected to at least one RDPU and or RMD. Preferably the CDPU is adapted to send information to a user in particular to a remote communication device UCD . Preferably the CDPU is adapted to push an information to reach a UCD i.e. to transmit information in particular a contract confirmation code which can also comprise details on the insurance type the insurance period the product insured and the insurance contract ID code or other information e.g. product information like advertisements without the need of being actively i.e. by a user interaction admitted by the UCD or also with delivery confirmation or to send an SMS or the like to a UCD.

Preferably an UCD is a mobile communication device in particular a commercial mobile phone communicating via an established telecommunication network. This offers the relevant advantage that even users in weakly developed areas with a generally weak infrastructure e.g. in developing countries can be reached where a telecommunication network is often present but other services or administrational institutions banks insurance agencies etc. are rarely available. This way the product insurance according to the invention can be made accessible even for small users i.e. farmers who otherwise and never before were able to enter into such insurance contracts. In most regions of the world the availability of mobile phones is increasing over the time. In Kenya for example the number of people possessing a mobile phone increased from 0.1 mill. In 2007 to 7.3 mill. in 2009 to be compared with the total population of 35 40 mill. Preferably the system comprises at least one UCD.

Preferably a UCD is a non commercial mobile phone which is adapted to substantially communicate only or mainly within the system according to the invention and is not configured to communicate within a commercial telecommunication network. This allows to promote the distribution of the product insurances and the selling of bundled products even to users who do not already possess a UCD. Such a non commercial UCD is preferably low cost e.g. obtainable for a base price of 20 US or less. A non commercial UCD e.g. a mobile phone is preferably adapted to be configured to become usable within an established telecommunication network in order to allow normal phone calls via said previously non commercial and now commercial device. This allows to also distribute telephone contracts to be sold in a bundle with an agricultural product and with an insurance.

Further a CDPU is preferably adapted e.g. by software means e.g. an appropriate Application Programming Interface API respectively preferred 

However money transfer due to compensation payments is preferably controlled by an insurance company preferably upon indication of an event insured by a supplier company i.e. by a CDPU for example.

Said MMTS API of the CDPU is preferably provided with security means e.g. encrypted data exchange means to provide security in order to ensure integrity of service and data confidentiality e.g. SSL for a World Wide Web WWW interface. Further the MMTS API is preferably capable of receiving real time payment confirmations.

Preferably a CDPU is adapted to send data and to receive data delivery confirmations in particular to send SMS and to receive SMS delivery confirmations in particular SMS long code that works across all network operators. Preferably a CDPU is adapted to provide an Application Programming Interface API for sending receiving SMS via Internet protocols. Preferably a CDPU comprises security means for securing the insurance database against undesired external data manipulation and data theft in particular comprising an adequate firewall and security measures to ensure integrity of service and protection of message data.

Preferably the CDPU comprises a data storage or is connected to a data storage which contains an insurance database. The insurance database contains information on the insurances or insurance contracts which have to be confirmed open contracts or which have been confirmed closed contracts . Said information can be correlated data which correlate product data in particular one or more product ID codes connected or not connected to one or more insurance ID codes with other data e.g.

Preferably the insurance database has the form of a Relational Database and is controlled by a Relational Database Management System.

Preferably a CDPU is adapted to receive the remotely measured data from a specific RMD and to evaluate these data. Said CDPU can be the CDPU which administrates the insurance database with contract data user data and product data for example or can be another CDPU preferably dedicated for processing measured data. Preferably the RMD and or the CDPU is adapted to evaluate the measured data from a specific RMD for assessing whether they prove an event insured having occurred at the site of the specific RMD and to generate and provide the result as event data which preferably also comprise the corresponding RMD ID code of the RMD. Preferably a CDPU is adapted to analyze the measured data for finding weather situations represented e.g. by specific weather data patterns which refer to events insured like pests diseases or the like. For example the existence of certain fungus spores can be correlated to a specific weather situation e.g. periods of certain humidity and certain temperatures.

Preferably a CDPU comprises data storage means or is connected or connectable to data storage means which provide assessment auxiliary data which assist in evaluating whether the remote measured data from a specific RMD prove an event insured having occurred at the site of the specific RMD. Assessment auxiliary data can comprise historical data containing values for weather parameters which were detected in the past in said site or region of the specific RMD. Furthermore the assessment auxiliary data can contain data which were calculated using such historical data e.g. norm data such that preferably a comparison of these data to average remotely measured data from the specific RMD allows to assess whether the remotely measured data are abnormal and indicate a weather event insured e.g. a drought excess rain frost or other extreme events impacting the cultivation of crops like earthquakes pest diseases or the like.

Preferably a CDPU indicates depending on the event data that a compensation is due for at least one specific product and at least one specific user. Preferably a CDPU is adapted to communicate said event data in particular to another CDPU or a RDPU which preferably indicates depending on the event data that a compensation is due for at least one specific product and at least one specific user. Preferably a CDPU is adapted to automatically initiate with or without additional confirmation of the obligor or the obligors of the respective compensation or compensations a compensation payoff or a bulk compensation payoff for multiple users affected by the relevant weather event upon the result of said assessment. Preferably the CDPU is adapted to automatically initiate payoffs via MMTS upon the result of said assessment with or without additional confirmation of the obligor or the obligors of the respective compensation or compensations.

The system preferably comprises at least one remote measurement device RMD for the measurement of site dependent in particular weather parameters the at least one RMD being adapted to measure and provide the site dependent in particular weather parameters as remotely measured data each RMD having an individual RMD identification ID code assigned to it each RMD being adapted to communicate the remotely measured data to a CDPU. Preferably the system comprises multiple RMDs which are distributed to different geographical sites each RMD preferably being arranged in a stationary or at least intermittently stationary way. Preferably an RMD is a portably device in particular of less than 40 kg 25 kg 10 kg or 5 kg which provides mounting means to mount the RMD stationary e.g. to trees or buildings and preferably provides a mast to place the sensor s in a height above the mounting position of the RMD.

An RMD can be a custom designed weather measurement device which provides measured data substantially only within the system according to the invention. The RMD preferably comprises means for measuring one or more physical parameters of the environment which are relevant for assessing a weather event by appropriate sensors. Such sensors for such parameters can be temperature sensors sensors for the relative humidity rain sensors wind sensors capacity or impedance sensors for measuring the capacity or impedance of samples of environmental air optical sensors e.g. optical precipitation sensors seismographic sensors or other sensors. Preferably an RMD comprises two or more sensors of the same time to generate redundancy of the measurement results which improves the reliability of the measurements. Preferably an RMD conducts small measurements e.g. of less than 10 5 or 1 dmof environmental air to allow for a flexible positioning and or cheap fabrication cost of the RMD. Preferably an RMD provides a biosensor e.g. for detecting biological compounds in an air sample of the environment. Such biological compounds can be biological aerosols fungi spores pollen bacteria insects. The detection of certain biological compounds can be used to detect an event insured like pests diseases and the like. A biosensor can comprise a microfluidic device for the analysis of small gas or liquid volumes in the range of microliters or nanoliters. A biosensor can comprise a gas phase chromatograph or mass spectrometer with or without evaluation electronics for example.

The weather parameters which are measured by the RMD are understood to be parameters which are meaningful for the evaluation of an event insured in particular excess rain heat frost flood earthquakes or pests or diseases which were found out to be often related to specific weather situations but which preferably also can be measured directly.

Preferably an RMD provides at least one a support or a case for the sensor s which is adapted to allow the measurement of said parameters e.g. by providing holes or membranes with pores in the case the holes and pores being dimensioned to allow the measurement of for instance environmental air but preventing any undesired opening of the case to remain undetected or by providing a transparent wall which allows to optically measure the environment of the RMD. Preferably an RMD is configured in a tamper proof way to ensure the integrity security and reliability of the measured data. This way manipulation can be avoided which makes the system more reliable.

Preferably an RMD is configured to operate autonomous. This can be achieved by providing the RMD with a generator for electricity which preferably is a photovoltaic element solar cell . Moreover an RMD preferably is provided with a rechargeable battery e.g. a Lithium Ion secondary battery or other accumulator. Moreover a battery management system can be provided which is adapted to start measurements only if the battery contains sufficient electric energy. Preferably the RMD comprises a timer generating data on the local time which are preferably used to generate the measured data of the RMD. Preferably an RMD comprises an electronic control device which preferably is programmable and comprises a digital data processor for example a microcontroller. Thereby the RMD is configured to control the sensor s and or to measure data according to a predetermined program which preferably can be changed by remote communication for example being updated via a remote connection for example by a communication device of a technician or automatically by a CDPU for instance. Preferably the RMD comprises a data storage e.g. flash memory or the like to store measured data or other data locally which is useful in particular in a case where data cannot be communicated immediately via a wireless data connection if for example a telecommunication network is temporarily unavailable.

Preferably an RMD is adapted with remote communication means which can comprise a wireless data interface. For example the remote communication means preferably comprise a SIM card and communication electronics adapted to use a GSM or UMTS telecommunication network by SMS GPRS or USSD to exchange data with a CDPU which can be the CDPU by which the insurance database is administrated or can be a different CDPU.

Preferably an RMD is configured to automatically and repeatedly in particular periodically communicate the measured data to another device which preferably is a CDPU at predetermined times or according to predetermined periods. For example an RMD can be adjusted to communicate the measured data repeatedly after a period which lies respectively preferred in a range of 1 to 5 seconds s 5 to 10 s 10 to 60 s 1 minute min to 5 min 5 min to 10 min particularly preferred 10 min to 20 min 20 min to 60 min or different. This offers the advantage that the system and the method according to the invention can be used to automatically pay a compensation to a user if an event insured is detected by the system. Moreover an improved reliability of the measured data is gained by the repeated measurements and an improved database with weather data of a specific site is generated which helps to further improve the system.

Moreover an RMD can be a weather satellite or an established weather station which is possessed by a third party e.g. a private or public company or a governmental institution.

An RMD and the embodiments of the same a according to the description of the present invention are also considered to be an invention alone and or in the context of the system according to the invention.

The measured data are used to evaluate an event which has to be insured. Such an event preferably can be indicated by any characteristic parameter for any environmental event which differs significantly from an expected value for a region or site. Expected values can be determined by analyzing historical weather data of the region. Such weather events may refer to excess rain flood drought frost storm earthquakes diseases or other.

Preferably a large number at least 10 50 100 500 1000 or 10000 of RMDs is assigned to the system. Preferably more than one RMD is assigned to a product to be sold or to be insured. This adds redundancy to the system and makes it more reliable. In particular a number larger than one larger than 2 e.g. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more or a random number of RMDs is assigned to a product to be sold or to be insured or is assigned to a user. This improves the reliability and security of the measured data even more.

Furthermore the invention relates to a data storage medium e.g. an insurance registration card for storing and preferably visually indicating data which are acquired by the system according to the invention the method according to the invention or the retailer RRCD according to the invention. The data storage medium can be used optionally with other subjects according to the invention in particular with embodiments of the business method. Preferably the data storage medium is a specific insurance registration card which stores information like the kind of weather event insured drought excess rain or the like the value insured together with its currency e.g. 100 US the crop that is covered by the insurance e.g. wheat or maize a total discount granted for products which are bought by the bearer of the insurance card the insurance policy identification number which is unique to each card and or the price of the specific insurance card.

Preferably an insurance card does not contain electronically readable data but preferably only information being for instance printed or manually written on it in which case the insurance card can be a simple cardboard or plastic card. This adds robustness resilience against data loss and simplicity to the system and reduces the cost for the operator as the insurance card might be produced and distributed in large numbers to retailers to be further distributed to potential insurance customers.

However an insurance card can also be an electronically readable storage medium which contains a storage unit for the above mentioned data a display unit for displaying all or some of the data stored in it and or a selection means e.g. one or more keys for selecting the data to be displayed on the display.

Furthermore the invention relates to a packaging for a product to be insured by the system according to the invention or the method according to the invention wherein data storage means are provided wherein preferably said product data and or an insurance ID code and or said RMD ID code and or said user ID code are stored. The packaging preferably comprises means for indicating information which preferably permanently indicate said information in particular upon external triggering in particular visually said information being for example

Further the invention relates to a method for providing a site related in particular weather insurance contract for a product to be sold to individual users in particular of an agricultural product like seeds or fertilizer using in particular the system according to the invention the method comprising the steps 

Preferably the method comprises the step of measuring the site dependent weather parameters by means of at least one RMD each RMD having an individual RMD identification ID code assigned to it and each RMD being adapted to communicate the measured parameters to a CDPU.

Preferably the method comprises the step of evaluating the remotely measured data from a specific RMD and assessing whether they prove an event insured for the remote site of the specific RMD and if so providing the result by means of the CPDU as event data including the information that a compensation is due for those contracts related to the specific RMD an preferably also comprising the corresponding RMD ID code.

Preferably the method comprises the step of communicating said event data to an RDPU which indicates depending on the event data that a compensation is due for a specific product insured and a specific user.

Preferably the method comprises the steps of comparing the RMD ID code of a specific RMD for which a compensation is due to multiple in particular to all RDPU data representing a confirmed and active contract determining depending on the result of said comparison for which user or users a compensation is due and if the number of such determined users is not zero paying a compensation to the determined user or users.

Moreover patent protection is requested for a business method if applicable and the embodiments of the business method. The business method according to the invention aims to support smallholder farmer s in dealing with weather risks by developing and piloting agricultural micro insurance products. This is the first time that farmers with as little as 1 acre of land for example can access insurance. The business method preferably utilizes the system according to the invention and or the method according to the invention.

The business method preferably involves several parties the farmer or user who wants to purchase an insured product in particular by closing a product specific i.e. micro insurance contract the stockist who preferably locally hands out the product being insured or not to the farmer and who collects data e.g. data related to the farmer the weather station e.g. the RMD assigned to the farmer the specific product and preferably the insurance type which the farmer wants to purchase. The stockist further transmits the data e.g. the RDPU data to a server and preferably collects the insurance premium from the farmer. The stockist preferably also performs the transfer of the collected premiums to an insurance company which is another party involved in the business method. Preferably a supplier company is provided as a party of the business method for supplying the agricultural product to be purchased by the farmer and to be insured by the insurance company and preferably to pay a contribution to the premiums e.g. 50 for the premium of the product insurance which is received by the insurance company or to pay no contribution to the premiums preferably to provide the compensation in form of the product e.g. seeds if a model is used where payout is provided in the form of the physical product. Moreover in the case that a compensation is due the supplier company can optionally provide a part e.g. 50 of the compensation in the form of the physical product e.g. seeds while another part e.g. 50 of the premium is paid by the insurance company. Further a mobile payment system can be involved e.g. M Pesa preferably used as a service which is supplied by a mobile payment company.

The first second and third remote site can be partly or completely the same or can be partly or completely different.

Preferably the business method utilizes the system and the method according to the invention for providing a site related in particular weather insurance contract in particular closing a in particular weather insurance contract for a product to be sold to at least one individual user in particular an agricultural product like seeds or fertilizer. The business method provides reduced effort to perform insurance purchases because it is easy to perform paperless fast and requires comparably low administrational costs. This is in particular achieved by using mobile phones as the RRCD and the UCD for example. In contrast to many other infrastructure even developing countries are increasingly widely covered by established telecommunication networks for mobile phones and the availability of mobile phones increased fast in the last years. The advantage is further preferably achieved by using Quick Response QR codes to code the product data whereby data processing can be performed fast and reliably. This enables to insure amounts as small as the value of one kg of seeds without transaction costs becoming higher than collected premiums which has not been possible with convenient insurances based mainly on paper. The business method the system and the method according to the invention preferably provide real time information on the purchase process making it possible to see exactly what products are being purchased and insured at each participating stockist. This information is highly valuable to the supply chain and sales marketing departments of the participating supplier company or multiple companies . Furthermore the solution can be used to send out tailored messages e.g. via SMS to insured farmers which can be used for agricultural advisor services or marketing. The business method further allows a large number of farmers users to participate and the business method further benefits from involving a large number of farmers who purchase a large number of in particular micro insured products instead of insuring an inflexible single large investment by a single insurance accompanied by a single large premium as it is the case for some known insurances where the event insured is not the weather but the real crop loss.

During the course of the season the RMDs are preferably monitored centrally e.g. by a CPDU which can be the CDPU which stores an insurance database or can be another CDPU which is linked to or belongs to the system of the invention and in the event that compensations are due the insurance company preferably transfers the payout directly to the farmers UCD e.g. his mobile phone by using the mobile payment system.

Preferably alternative purchase options for purchasing a purchased product are provided. Most preferred during a so called pay as you go purchase a user pays a small premium on top of a a purchase of seeds fertilizer or crop protection products or the like in order to have that single item covered by insurance. An alternative option employs a data storage medium for example an insurance card in particular the data storage medium according to the invention wherein a farmer purchases said insurance card at the beginning of a season in order to have all of his her investments covered by insurance.

A further possible alternative or additional feature of the invention in particular as an alternative of buying an insurance card or the like could be to have the insurance be included as part of a bank loan. In this scenario the bank on behalf of the farmer pays the premium as part of the loan. The bank registers the farmers that have taken out a loan and pays the corresponding premiums to the insurance company. If there is a compensation payout the money goes directly to the bank deducted from the original loan. This is part of the terms and conditions and is accepted by the farmer when taking out a loan that includes weather insurance. The insurance helps to secure the loan for the farmer as it reduces the banks risk. In contrast of the traditional methods of insuring loans the farmer preferably is flexible to decide whether and when and preferably how he wants to insure an individual product which he buys at a retailer. However availability of bank loans and banks may be limited in certain countries and therefore the embodiment is less preferred than the PAYGO or insurance card approach.

Preferably the insurance card and bank related business methods in particular provides discounts wherein discounts on participating products are offered at a fixed amount per kilo liter. This is in useful to make insurance affordable to farmers. Using a chart a farmer can see how much discount he will receive per kilo of seeds regardless of the store price for those seeds. If the retailer i.e. the stockist charges the discount price to the farmer then the supplier company preferably needs to reimburse the stockist plus preferably compensate for the transmission costs e.g. the SMS costs that have been accumulated. Reimbursement could be performed in cash via M Pesa or bank transfer or via future inventory purchases.

The business method further preferably provides that in the case of an event insured e.g. a drought farmers are compensated directly e.g. via M Pesa payouts at the end of the season. The only exception to this is the farmers who received the insurance as part of a bank loan. In this case the compensation payout goes back to the bank instead of to the farmer. Even though the insurance contract is with the farmer the terms and conditions stipulate that the bank is entitled to the compensation payout whenever a bank initiates the insurance policy payment.

The business methods preferably also provides that the system of the invention is not only used for tracking insurance registrations or discount payments but that it can also be used as a marketing platform by sending messages to registered farmers in particular via SMS.

Definitions of terms and features of the system according to the invention and the other subjects of the invention can be used to understand the method the business method and other subjects according to the invention and vice versa. Moreover features of the system can be adapted to form respective features for the method or the RRCD according to the invention or the business method and vice versa.

The User possesses a commercial mobile phone UCD which is connected to a commercial telecommunication network which is established in the country and provides sufficient coverage to let User receive phone calls and SMS at the site of his farming land where he is planning to grow the crop. User desires to secure his investment of buying seeds by entering an insurance. In order to demonstrate the capability of the invention the user here is considered to be illiterate and to have never been able to study written information in particular information on potential traditional crop insurances wherein it should be noted that this is not typical for Kenya because the measured illiteracy rate in Kenya was as low as 30 according to the German Office of Foreign Affairs.

The crop is sold by the company which possesses the exemplary system according to the invention in particular the central data processing unit CDPU . Preferably the term CDPU refers to a single server. Here the CDPU represents at least two central computer servers which are connected to exchange data one first server dedicated to receive and process the measured data from the RMDs one server dedicated to communicate between the other entities of the system in particular between the RDPUs and the UCDs which are involved. The insurance database and other database can also be administered by the second server or by a different server. The system is further adapted to communicate with several remote measurement devices RMD via a GSM telecommunication network for the measurement and communication of site dependent weather parameters in particular with RMD . The system further contains several remote data processing units RDPU of retailers in particular the RDPU which is contained in a remote retailer communication device RRCD which is a managed mobile phone which can only be used to exchange data with the CDPU . The RMDs are adapted to measure and provide the site dependent weather parameters as remotely measured data each RMD having an individual RMD identification ID code assigned to it and each RMD being adapted to communicate the remotely measured data to a CDPU here via a secured Internet connection . An RMD is a regional weather sensor station which delivers reliable information on the region where the Retailer and the User are located.

It should be noted that User may also buy products with the desired insurance at another retailer who is not close to his site e.g. Retailer as long as Retailer registers User with the system using the correct RMD ID code which identifies RMD as the RMD assigned to the site of User where User is planning to seed the crop on his farming land.

The RDPU is adapted to generate a data set RDPU data comprising at least the product data possibly including an insurance ID code an RMD ID code and a user ID code the RDPU being adapted to communicate the RDPU data to a CDPU the CDPU being adapted to receive the RDPU data via SMS connection and to generate thereof an individual contract confirmation code the CDPU being further adapted to communicate said individual contract confirmation code to the remote communication device UCD of User via SMS connection .

Further features of the system can be derived from the following description of the embodiment of the method according to the invention which utilizes the system and the business method according to the invention which utilizes the system and the method according to the invention 

In order to buy a product with insurance User needs a retailer stockist who sells the desired product. Retailer is one of several stockists who participate in selling products with insurance. Stockist will reveive a percentage of the premium of the individual insurance sold to User

For participating in the program Retailer must firstly register with the system . Selected stockists are trained and then registered with the system. Registration takes place via a web form. Trainers are available to register stockists on the spot by using a laptop computer with an Internet connection. The following information is required during registration 

The selected Stockist who works with the system receives a managed mobile phone RRCD with RDPU that contains a custom Java application Software which is an embodiment of the computer software according to the invention . The Java application will make it easy for stockists to register payments which can be done via a first payment method PAYGO as well as a second payment method CARD discount payments the second payment method using a data storage medium according to the invention a system specific insurance card in the present example .

The system is provides stockists with a single type of RRCD mobile phone so that a single model of mobile phone is used by all stockists. This makes it easier to develop and manage an embodiment of the Software according to the invention which is to be run on the RRCDs in particular on RRCD . The phones will be provided with a SIM card to enable GPRS to be used. Where possible the phones will be locked down so that they can only be used for the project and not for making other calls or using data for other purposes.

The Software will only show the subset of those weather stations RMDs that are linked to the particular store. If a store only supports one weather station RMD then that station is selected by default. Otherwise the stockist must select which weather station to use for each transaction. The list of weather stations linked to a shop is dynamic and must be updated by the Software from CDPU which acts as a server computer when required according to an appropriate update protocol .

During registration each stockist will be provided with a Stockist ID code which is a 4 digit number that uniquely identifies the stockist. This number will be entered into the Software and will be used from then on to identify the stockist for all future transactions. It is possible however for the stockist to change the stockist ID number stored in the Software via a configuration menu.

The Software is an example for the computer software according to the invention for the control of functions which are related to the system and the method according to the invention. The software is a mobile application for a Symbian OS operated mobile phone which is written in the Java programming language and has the following main features 

The software also called client is adapted to automatically update to a newer version. Thereby the application version information is sent during every data transfer see transfer protocol . The client sends its current version number and the server sends the version number of the client software available on the server. This way the client can detect whenever there is a newer version of the software or files available and the server can log the version number of the client to help in debugging. Whenever a client detects that a newer version of the software or data files exists the client can initiated an upgrade which involves the following steps 

There are two main strategies for how insurance can be purchased within the context of the system and the method according to the invention which are particularly relevant for the business method according to the invention 

The diagram in shows analogously to the devices of an embodiment of the system according to the invention which are in particular involved in system which is adapted to perform a PAYGO insurance purchase. The farmer User goes to a store and pays an additional amount to the stockist in cash to include insurance for his purchase step 1 . The stockist registers each PAYGO purchase using the Java application software on his mobile phone RRCD with RDPU at the hosted server CDPU collects the premiums from the farmers 2 and confirms the payment by means of the software which updates the database of the hosted server CDPU by means of a GPRS or SMS based data communication. Both the server CDPU and client application software store each sent data package locally until a confirmation has been received from the receiver. The package is only removed from the local storage when a confirmation from the receiver has been obtained. The CDPU confirms the purchase to the farmer by means of SMS thereby closing the insurance contract and sending detail information on the contract. Periodically the stockist transfers the total premiums collected to a managed account via M Pesa 3 . The hosted server with solution data base CDPU can be accessed over the internet by different parties 4 . Stockist registrations can be performed insurance premium collections can be monitored farmers can be notified of compensation payouts and the like by means of the hosted server CDPU 5 . The server is accessible by a support telephone assistant and his data processing device PC smart phone and the like who can be located anywhere being connected to the CDPU via the Internet 6 . The M Pesa mobile payment system registers the premium payments of the farmers at the CDPU 7 .

The PAYGO model aims at reducing a barrier to insurance by eliminating the need to pay for the full coverage up front. The farmer can elect to cover each input purchase made i.e. a purchase of a product like seeds furtilizer or crop protection by paying a slightly higher price that insures that individual input against weather risk. On any participating product two prices are displayed namely one Standard price without insurance and one Insured price that includes weather insurance.

Exemplary products could be provided in a system specific packaging according to the invention labelled for example 

The supplying company subsidizes part of the insurance cost e.g. 5 of the product price in order to promote the product and create buy in with the customer. The farmer pays around 5 on top of the standard price to have the product insured. In this way the total premium amount 10 is collected and paid to the insurance company. The seeds insurance is applicable at the beginning of the season while the fertilizer and crop protection insurance options can be purchased at any time during the year i.e. there are different cut off dates depending on the product purchased. The insurance properties and contracts need to be defined once for each product type.

The model is suitable for farmers that do not know how much of an investment they will be able to make throughout the season. At each purchase farmers can choose if they wish to hedge their own risk by paying the insured price or not depending on their personal circumstances.

The diagram in shows the flow of money for the insurance premiums with the PAYGO model. In step 1 premium contribution is paid by the farmer in cash to the stockist when a product is purchased. The stockist accumulates premium contributions and sends total amount periodically to the insurance company 2 . Each participating product supplying company also called supplier transfers their respective contributions to the insurance company at the end of the registration period 3 . The farmer pays 5 and the supplier pay 5 to produce the total premium of 10 .

Each product has a unique product ID code item ID that identifies which product is being purchased. Stockist enters the purchased amount e.g. the number of kilograms or litres of each item into the RRCD and the RRCD responds by assistance of the Software with the total insurance contribution due for that purchase. Possible item IDs can be configured as shown in the table in .

Whenever a farmer wants to purchase an input with insurance the stockist after registering the user preferably scans in a QR code by means of his RRCD camera said QR code containing the information on respectively preferred the event insured e.g. drought the product e.g. Maize X the amount of product insured and the RRCD communicates the product data to the CDPU. Alternatively the stockistsends the product data by another means to the CDPU for example by an SMS with the following product data 

Preferably the RRCD of Retailer comprises a 2D scanner e.g. a digital camera which is capable of taking pictures of a QR code which is contained in a list of QR codes and associated products the list being available to Stockist to be scanned. The Software decodes the picture with a specific QR code to gather the information contained in the same in particular the product data of the product including a specific insurance that is desired for purchase by User . An example of a QR code list is shown in .

However as the premium is preferably calculated by the RDPU and not by the CDPU the related optional communication between CDPU and RDPU can be omitted which advantageously leads to lower communication cost.

When a farmer makes a PAYGO purchase he receives a paper receipt from the stockist preferably a blank form on which the farmers completes the following information the insured items the insurance contract ID code which uniquely identifies the closed contract amongst the other contract ID codes of other contracts which are stored in the insurance database of the CDPU the insured risk and the contract end date. The receipt may further comprise a list of different SMS commands which are available to the user preferably with a written instruction like For information on your insurance send an SMS with any of the following commands to 54120 herein 54120 being the phone number which connects to the SMS data exchange interface of the CDPU . Possible commands can be written in the form POLICY to list all of the policies registered to your mobile STATUS to find out about the current status of the weather insurance PAYOUT to find out if you have any active compensation entitlements .

This purchase process uses SMS the M Pesa MMTS application and an API as software and communication technologies. The workflow related to this purchase process is shown in .

The workflow of the collection of premiums from stockists is shown in the diagram of . Whenever a purchase is made that includes insurance the Stockist collects the 5 premium. These collections are accumulated until either of the following two situations occur 

In either case an SMS is sent to Stockist asking him to pay the accumulated premiums to the insurance company. Stockist then performs the transfer using the M Pesa MMTS. If for any reason Stockist fails to make the transfer a number of warning SMS are sent to him and failure to pay after numerous warnings results in Stockist s account being suspended. While being suspended Stockist cannot accept PAYGO insurance payments as the system will not process the transaction until the previously accumulated premiums have been paid. Further reference is made to the diagram in showing a preferred method of PAYGO purchase.

The collection of premiums from suppliers preferably works as follows At the end of the insurance purchase period each of the participating suppliers is informed of the total purchases made with insurance on their products. Each supplier is then required to pay the corresponding premium amount to the insurance company via bank transfer. Thus the farmer pays 5 and the participating suppliers pays 5 in order to cover the full insurance premium of 10 .

Compensation payout for PAYGO is explained with reference to the diagram in . It is preferred that either the insurance company pays out the compensation completely in the form of money e.g. via M Pesa or alternatively that the compensation is paid out completely in the form of the physical product e.g. seeds preferably by the stockist. However compensation can be also paid out as a combination of both. In this case the insurance premium is paid in part by the farmer and in part by the participating suppliers the compensation payout is also split between farmers and suppliers. The suppliers are then able to offer their part of the compensation back to the farmers as inputs. Splitting the compensation into cash and inputs in this manner helps to promote that the farmers will purchase from the same supplier again. This buy in provides a reason for the suppliers to participate in the program and contribute 5 to the premiums. It also helps to motivate the stockists to promote the insurance as they also benefit from the additional sales during a payout.

In the insurance company pays part of the compensation payout directly to the farmer via M Pesa step 1 . The remaining part of the compensation is paid by the insurance companies to the supplier s that contributed to the insurance premium via bank transfer 2 . The farmer collects free inputs agricultural products from the stockists corresponding to his entitled inputs compensation amount 3 . Details of each compensation payout via inputs are recorded using the system and method according to the invention 4 in particular by using the RRCD or RDPU respectively to acquire the information. The suppliers are informed of the inputs reimbursement that needs to go to each stockists. This amount is offset against future orders from the stockist 5 .

In the event of a compensation payout the insurance company or the supplier company will send out an SMS to all affected farmers by means of the CDPU in particular automatically to multiple farmers in particular to User for example with the following text 

User then presents his insurance receipt to Stockist who then scans the QR code on the receipt. The Software will send a request to the CDPU to verify the claim number and find out how much remaining compensation the farmer is entitled to. When the compensation amount is known the farmer informs Stockist of how much of that compensation he would like to spend at that time. Stockist enters this amount into the Software which communicates this back to the CDPU . The CDPU then sends an SMS to the User asking him to confirm the action e.g. with the following text 

User replies to the SMS to confirm the compensation collection. The UDPU sends a confirmation to Stockist deducts the compensation amount from User s account and credits Stockist s account on the CDPU with the compensation amount. Later the supplier company pays Stockist in cash via the M Pesa MMTS or via inventory to reimburse Stockist for any compensations that have been paid out by him.

As an alternative option for performing the purchase of an insured product and as an alternative embodiment of the invention it is provided to let a farmer purchase an insurance card at the beginning of a season in order to have all of his her investments covered by insurance.

Using an insurance card purchase insurance is purchased upfront with the use of an Insurance Card that secures the farmers investments. The insurance costs approximately 10 of the insured amount and can be purchased independently of input products or services. Insurance cards also referred to as being embodiments of the data storage medium according to the invention are freely distributed amongst stockists. The cards define the insurance type the region covered and the amount of the covered policy. The cards themselves have no value until they are Registered by the farmer. Reference is made to which shows two examples of an insurance card.

The Value Insured represents the total coverage of the insurance and constitutes the maximum compensation in the case of full payout. The Crop designates the type of crop that is covered by the insurance. Different crops can be covered using different insurance cards. To make the insurance more affordable farmers are given discounts on products up to the Total Discount amount which represents 5 of the sum insured approx half the amount of the insurance premium . Farmers are only entitled to the discounts when they have purchased insurance. Whenever a farmer makes a purchase that includes a discount the discount amount is deducted from the farmers account until the discount entitlement reaches zero. At that point the farmer is asked to purchase additional insurance in order to cover the full investments and obtain further discount entitlements.

The Policy Number is unique to each card. This number is used when a farmer first registers for insurance. The format of the number is as follows YY C 12345 where YY Year or season C Crop insurance type 12345 Unique serialized number.

There are different denominations of insurance cards and farmers can purchase multiple cards to obtain additional coverage. To purchase insurance a farmer goes to a stockist selects the desired insurance card and then performs the registration and payment via his mobile phone. Payment for the policy is performed using M Pesa. At the time of registration a farmer must also provide a Region code which is a 2 digit number identifying the closest weather station. The insurance is based on the rain recorded at this station. A list of Region Codes is displayed by the stockist . Insurance can be obtained for certain events and certain times of the year seasons . The corresponding information is available to the stockist in the form of a table shown in

To purchase insurance the farmer begins the process by making an M Pesa payment. He enters the policy number from the insurance card together with the region code in the field for the account number as defined by M Pesa. He then enters the amount and makes the transfer to the insurance companies account. When the payment is received the M Pesa system informs the supplier s system of the payment. The supplier s system then registers the farmer s details in the database and requests the national ID number via SMS.

The diagram in shows the relationship between the entities involved in an insurance card purchase as another preferred embodiment of the invention. The farmer e.g. User collects the insurance card at an input dealer e.g. Retailer step 1 . and pays for it via M Pesa which sends a confirmation on the payment related to a purchase identification code to the UCD of the User and to the server CDPU which registers the payment step 2 . The input dealer registers the purchase by means of his RRCD or RDPU respectively which communicates the product data user ID code and the policy identification number which uniquely identifies the user s contract of an insured value represented by the insurance card by means of the software via a SMS or USSD based data connection 3 . The hosted server with insurance database CDPU sends a confirmation with details on the insured product premium and remaining value of the totally insured sum represented by the insurance card to the farmer via SMS or USSD 4 . As in the PAYGO purchase model the data of the server can be accessed via the Internet by different parties involved in the insurance contract 5 .

The diagram in shows the money flow during insuring card purchase in particular the flow of money that is involved in the purchase of insurance premiums using the insurance card model. In step 1 an insurance card is purchased by the farmer who pays the total premium e.g. 10 of the value of the product upfront to the insurance company. The farmer receives a discount e.g. 4 on the purchased agricultural products due to his insurance card 2 . The suppliers reimburse the stockists for the discounts given to the farmers 3 . Thus the farmer effectively ends up paying 6 the suppliers pay 5 and 1 is retained by the stockist for participating in the program. The stockists therefore will likely also benefit from repeat sales from farmers after a drought although this is not guaranteed as the farmer is paid directly via M Pesa and may choose to spend the compensation as they see fit. However the stockist receives at least the 1 .

Another option according to another embodiment of the invention is to purchase the insurance as part of a bank loan. An alternative to farmers purchasing insurance cards is to have the insurance included as part of a bank loan. In this scenario the bank on behalf of the farmer pays the premium as part of the loan. The bank Registers the farmers that have taken out a loan and later pays the corresponding premiums to the insurance company. If there is a compensation payout the money goes directly to the bank deducted from the original loan. This is part of the terms and conditions and is accepted by the farmer when taking out a loan that includes weather insurance. The insurance helps to secure the loan for the farmer as it reduces the banks risk.

The bank sends the first 4 elements and the 5th element National ID is obtained later from the farmer directly.

No keyword is used but it is important that the first 3 characters are separated by a space and represent a valid bank ID. The diagram of describes how insurance is registered when it is part of a bank loan. The bank registers a farmer e.g. User by sending registration data e.g. by an SMS with the content 233 0796000499 21 09154217 step 1 . Insurance policy is registered in the database 2 of the supplier s server e.g. CDPU . The server confirms by SMS to the bank Registration confirmed 0796000499 is now insured for 1000 KES of Maize insurance 3 and to the farmer You have been issued with Maize weather insurance for the Nanyuki region from Bank X. To complete the registration please reply with your National ID number. 4 . The User answers by SMS to the server with his national ID code 12039131 to complete the registration 5 . The national ID number is recorded in database 6 . At the end of the purchase of the insurance for a total amount of value the bank sends by SMS a confirmation ID code providing for example the content Congratulations you now have 1000 KES worth of Maize insurance for the Nanyuki region 7 .

At the end of the registration period the banks transfer the total amount of premium s to the insurance companies account. This is performed automatically by detecting the end of an insurance registration period calculating premiums owing from each bank let the insurance companies issue invoices to banks for premiums let the bank transfer money to the account of the respective insurance company and ending up in the status that the bak collected premiums are all paid.

Once a farmer has successfully registered and paid for the insurance policy either by themselves or via a bank loan the farmer is then entitled to product discounts. Each bank and stockist will have an identifying code that is entered whenever they send an SMS. The code is used to link insurance registrations and discounts back to the bank stockist. The codes may be set up as follows 

Bank 123 3 digit number to identify a bank. The first digit is used for the bank and the last two digits identify the branch.

This approach allows multiple mobile phones to be used by each bank or stockists without requiring that every mobile number be registered with the server.

The invention in particular the business method provides that discounts on participating products are offered at a fixed amount per kilo liter. This is to avoid fluctuations due to price differences amongst stores. Using a chart as shown in a farmer can see how much discount in KES he will receive per kilo of seeds regardless of the store price for those seeds.

When a farmer purchases a product that is supported by an insurance discount the following process is used which is explained with reference to 

d The system supplier s server or CDPU respectively looks up the remaining discount entitlement that is available for the farmer 2 and responds with the total discount in KES available for that purchase. If no discount is possible or if only a partial discount is available the farmer is advised to purchase additional insurance. The server answers by SMS to the stockist 0796000499 is entitled to the full discount of KES 18 on 2 kilos of Maize seeds. Does the farmer wish to use the discount Reply with the word YES if the purchase is made. 

e The stockist confirms the purchase with sending Yes by SMS when payment has been received with an acknowledge SMS. The system then subtracts the corresponding discount from the farmer s entitlement and credits the stockists account in the Syngenta database with the discount amount given 5 .

At the end the server confirms to the UCD of the User with an SMS with the content You have received a discount of KES 18 on your purchase of 2 kilos of Maize seeds. The Total Discount remaining is 0. for example. In the event that the remaining discount entitlement is not sufficient to fully cover the purchase amount the following alternative messages could be displayed at step 3 

If the stockist charges the discount price to the farmer then the supplier company needs to reimburse the stockist plus compensate for the SMS costs that have been accumulated. Reimbursement could be performed in cash via M Pesa or bank transfer or via future inventory purchases.

The system is not only used for tracking insurance registrations and discount payments but it can also be used as a marketing platform by sending SMS messages to registered farmers. Participating suppliers and selected organization s E.g. Extension information providers or healthcare related will be able to utilize the marketing services. Participating suppliers that offer discounts will automatically receive the right to send 3 SMS messages to registered farmers during the course of the season. Other selected organizations will be able to pay to utilize the marketing channel. Approved companies will be able to send SMS s to farmers using a special web site. The web application will provide statistics on the farmers regions and crops being grown and allow the user to format and send an SMS to selected farmers. At no time will the actual mobile numbers of the farmers be revealed to the companies organizations utilizing the marketing platform.

The system the method and the business method of the invention are described to provide or to use an RMD for the measurement of weather data and to enable the purchase of a weather insurance and an insured agricultural product. However the invention can also be used to remotely detect other data than weather data by an adequately configured RMD and or to enable the purchase of other products and services than agricultural products or weather insurance. This can be achieved in particular by providing a system for providing a site related service for a product to be sold to at least one individual user comprising at least one central data processing unit CDPU at least one remote measurement device RMD for the measurement of site dependent parameters at least one remote data processing unit RDPU of a retailer the at least one RMD being adapted to measure and provide the site dependent parameters as remotely measured data each RMD having an individual RMD identification ID code assigned to it each RMD being adapted to communicate the remotely measured data to a CDPU the at least one RDPU being adapted to generate a data set RDPU data comprising at least product data an RMD ID code and a user ID code the product data containing in particular an insurance ID code the at least one RDPU being further adapted to communicate the RDPU data to a CDPU the at least one CDPU being adapted to receive the RDPU data and to generate thereof an individual contract confirmation code the CDPU being further adapted to communicate said individual contract confirmation code to at least one remote communication device UCD of an individual user and by providing a corresponding method and business method which use such a system.

