---

title: Method and system for creating temporary visual indicia
abstract: The present invention relates to new and improved embodiments of systems and methods for using a “pen” input as a temporary pointer to highlight a portion of a document and having the “ink” disappear. In embodiments, a method and system for temporarily marking a portion of a document comprises sending a marking directive that produces a visual indicia on a document being viewed on two or more display devices connected over a network, waiting a period of time, and automatically erasing the visual indicia on the document being viewed on the two or more display devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977975&OS=08977975&RS=08977975
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08977975
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100601
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 083 135 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 561 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CREATING TEMPORARY VISUAL INDICIA filed on Mar. 15 2005 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the creation and editing of graphical presentations. More particularly the present invention relates to temporarily highlighting information in computer application documents.

Computer networks and especially the Internet have allowed people to use computer systems to communicate data. One way in which computer systems communicate data is by sending documents electronically. Some software applications have allowed computer systems to transfer documents or other data quickly. With the fast transfers of data people can interact in near real time to data or documents being shared between two or more computer systems. An example of these near real time interactions occurs in web meetings where two or more users in distant areas interact with and react to data transferred between their computers. In some web meetings users also discuss the data over the phone while exchanging the electronic data between the computer systems.

Unfortunately it is very difficult in many situations to focus on a portion or piece of data that is being viewed on the two or more remote computer systems. The web meetings are not in person and normal human interactions such as pointing to gesturing to or drawing on a physical document are not possible. Thus users generally must permanently alter the document during a web meeting and send the edits to the participants to highlight or draw the attention of the participants to a certain portion of the document. The edits dirty the document by permanently changing the documents format or appearance. Either after the meeting or later in the meeting users are forced to methodically erase the edits used to highlight portions of the document. The dirtying of documents does not fairly duplicate the normal human interaction and wastes time in undoing the edits. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

The present invention relates to new and improved embodiments of systems and methods for using visual indicia to highlight a portion of a document and having the visual indicia automatically disappear. In one embodiment a method for temporarily marking a portion of a document comprises sending a marking directive that produces a visual indicia on a document being viewed on two or more display devices connected over a network waiting a period of time and automatically erasing the visual indicia on the document being viewed on the two or more display devices.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system comprises a user interface for providing temporary visual indicia. The user interface interaction comprises receiving within a document an edit to the document that creates the visual indicia displaying the visual indicia in the document waiting a period of time and automatically erasing the visual indicia from the document.

In still another embodiment of the present invention a system comprises components for generating temporary visual indicia on a document viewed on two display devices. The components comprise a marking component that produces a marking directive upon input by a user and sends the marking directive to the display devices to create the visual indicia a clock component that counts for a period of time and an erasing component that erases the visual indicia in response to the clock component reaching the period of time.

The invention may be implemented as a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process.

A more complete appreciation of the present invention and its improvements can be obtained by reference to the accompanying drawings which are briefly summarized below to the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention and to the appended claims.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. The invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that the disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

An exemplary peer to peer computer system that generates a temporary visual indicia is shown in . It should be noted that the present invention is explained as employed in a peer to peer computer system. However as one skilled in the art the present invention may be employed in other computer architectures and is not limited to the embodiments set forth herein. As used herein a computer system shall be construed broadly and is defined as one or more devices or machines that execute programs for displaying and manipulating text graphics symbols audio video and or numbers. The peer to peer computer system shows the peer to peer system at a first time and the same peer to peer system at a second later time. The peer to peer system consists of at least two computer systems and connected by a network . Any number of computer systems may be connected together in embodiments of the present invention but for ease of explanation the embodiments shown will have only two computer systems and connected together. A network is any group of computers and associated devices that are connected by communication facilities. The network can be any intranet or internet such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. In one embodiment the connection between the computer systems and is facilitated by a communication software application such as the DirectPlay application programming interface offered by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. that allows the near real time sharing of documents or data between the two or more connected computer systems and .

The computer systems and display information on a display device such as display screen and or . The display screen is enlarged to show details of the display. In embodiments of the present invention the display and or relates to a peer to peer application and or such as Microsoft OneNote note taking program offered by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The peer to peer application can be any program that can broadcast data to other computers over a network. In one embodiment the peer to peer application is a web meeting software application. In embodiments of the present invention the peer to peer applications and jointly display the same document . The document is a container for any type of information such as a text document a graphics document a spreadsheet document etc. Importantly although the peer to peer applications and display a document many other types of content may be managed and displayed in accordance with the present invention and thus the document example is not meant as a limitation but merely as an illustration.

In the example shown in the peer to peer application has a title bar a tool bar and document window . There may be other windows for managing other information as indicated by scroll bar . Tool bar provides user controls such as an open control and a pen as pointer control among potentially many others. Such user interface controls are generally known in the art and are useful in managing certain types of information.

Within document window there is a set of content such as content . In this particular example document window displays content for the ABC Document. The document may have more content than that shown as represented by the ellipses . In addition to the content the document window displays visual indicia . In embodiments of the present invention visual indicia is any type of visual display in the document that can draw the attention of a user to the content highlighted by the visual indicia . In particular embodiments the visual indicia is a mark created with a pen utility as shown by visual indicia . Other visual indicia can comprise highlighting font changes graphic components special text or writing or other editing that a user can produce with the user interface. The visual indicia is shared with the other computer systems in the peer to peer system . As such document window also displays the visual indicia . The visual indicia is created on both display windows and shortly after a user creates the visual indicia in the ABC document .

In order to create the visual indicia a user may select with a cursor the Pen as Pointer control . The Pen as Pointer control in embodiments transforms any edit action in the document into a marking action. The marking action is then sent to other computer systems such as computer system . The application window and the visual indicia will be discussed in more detail below but in general the visual indicia displays a temporary mark in all documents connected to the peer to peer system . After a period of time the peer to peer system automatically erases the visual indicia and the content is displayed without the visual indicia in the document . Thus the computer system provides temporary visual indicia similar to disappearing ink. The computer system provides advantages because a document is not needlessly dirtied or altered to draw the attention of the users temporarily to some portion of the document . Rather the temporary visual indicia marks a document to direct a user s attention and then will automatically erase or disappear after a period of time.

An example of a suitable operating environment in which the invention may be implemented is illustrated in . The operating environment is only one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The most basic configuration of the computing device is illustrated in by dashed line . Additionally device may also have additional features or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. The devices may help form the user interface discussed above while devices may display results discussed above. All these devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device typically includes at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The computer device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers not shown . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server computer system a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer device . The logical connections between the computer device and the remote computer may include a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer device is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the computer processor via the communication connections or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation a remote application programs may reside on memory device connected to the remote computer system. It will be appreciated that the network connections explained are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An exemplary system with components for generating temporary visual indicia on two or more display devices is shown in . In embodiments of the present invention a network connects two or more peer to peer applications such as peer to peer applications and . For ease of illustration and description shows only two peer to peer applications and connected by the network . The first peer to peer application comprises a user interface . A user interface may be any interface that can receive or provide information to a user. In some embodiments the user interface is a graphical user interface that displays content on a display device. A user opens or generates a document that is displayed in the user interface .

The user of the first peer to peer application establishes a meeting with the other user of the second peer to peer application . Establishing a meeting in such a system is explained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 920 640 filed Aug. 18 2004 and assigned to Microsoft Corporation which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Upon establishing the meeting the user issues a directive to share the document . The document is transferred to the peer to peer application to send to the other user. In embodiments the peer to peer application broadcasts the document over the network . The second peer to peer application receives the document and sends the document to the second user s user interface . The document is then displayed in the user interface . The system allows two or more people to view the same document simultaneously.

In communicating information about the document the user may desire to highlight or draw attention to a certain portion of the document . For example in a web meeting a user may wish to discuss only a small portion of the shared document . However the user may be unable to effectively direct to the appropriate portion of the document the other user viewing the document on the remotely connected peer to peer application . Essentially the user cannot provide a physical gesture or action that directs the other user s attention. Thus the user needs to use a tool in the web meeting to draw the other user s attention to the correct portion of the document .

In some embodiments the user informs the peer to peer application that a future edit to the document should generate temporary visual indicia. In one embodiment the user sends a Pen as Pointer input control signal . For example the user selects a Pen as Pointer control such as control which sends the directive or control signal to the peer to peer application . The peer to peer application changes the state of one or more editing devices within the user interface to input temporary visual indicia. For example some programs have a pen input that allows a user to draw lines with the mouse cursor in the user interface . The peer to peer application recognizes the pen input as an input for temporary visual indicia after receiving the Pen as Pointer . Other inputs may be the highlighting function that creates a colored background behind text as seen in document shown in or a graphic input that place a graphic component such as a red circle over a portion of the document . One skilled in the art will recognize other editing functions that may provide temporary visual indicia in accordance with aspects of the present invention. Alternatively the application may be placed in a temporary edit mode during which all edits are drawn in a temporary manner as described below until the application is taken out of the temporary edit mode.

The user then enters an edit into the document to create visual indicia such as a grey highlight shown in document in . In embodiments of the present invention the edit creates an ink directive to the peer to peer application . In response to the ink directive the peer to peer application completes several actions. In one embodiment the peer to peer application broadcasts a mark directive over the network to all other peer to peer applications . The mark directive includes all information to render the visual indicia created by the edit in the document on the second user s user interface . The peer to peer application receives the mark directive and translates the mark directive into a draw ink function that is sent to the user interface . As shown in the document also displays visual indicia as a highlight to the text similar to document corresponding to the mark directive and the draw ink function .

In one embodiment peer to peer application also starts a timer and upon completion of a predetermined period of time automatically erases the visual indicia. In one embodiment the clock counts for 10 seconds. Upon reaching the end of the predetermined period of time the clock in one embodiment sends an interrupt or notice to the peer to peer application that the predetermined period of time has elapsed. In another embodiment the peer to peer application polls a clock and determines if the predetermined time has elapsed.

In response to the clock reaching the end of the predetermined period of time the peer to peer application sends an erase ink function to the user interface that erases the visual indicia from the document . In a further embodiment the peer to peer application issues an erase directive over the network . The second peer to peer application receives the erase directive and translates the directive into an erase ink function that is sent to the user interface . The user interface erases the visual indicia from the document in response to receiving the erase ink function .

In another embodiment when the peer to peer application receives the Pen as Pointer input the peer to peer application changes the type of ink used on the document to a disappearing ink type. The peer to peer application then receives an ink input in disappearing ink. The peer to peer application broadcasts a mark directive that provides data about the visual indicia which is in disappearing ink. Upon receiving the mark directive the peer to peer application sends a draw ink function to the user interface to generate the visual indicia on the document . In addition the peer to peer application starts a timer to time for a predetermined period of time. In response to the predetermined period of time having elapsed on the timer the peer to peer application sends an erase ink function to the user interface to erase the visual indicia from the document . Thus in this embodiment the first peer to peer application does not need to send an erase directive to have the visual indicia and or automatically disappear. Rather the disappearing ink type data transmitted with the mark directive provide the data required for the peer to peer application to know to automatically erase the visual indicia after the period of time. In embodiments of the invention data within the mark directive also provides the duration for the period of time to wait before erasing the visual indicia .

It should be noted that the erase function for document may not occur at the same moment in time as the erase function on document . The difference in time may occur because of time differences between the sending of the ink command and the draw ink command . The time differences are attributable to the time required to send the mark directive to the peer to peer application . While there may be a time difference in some embodiments the disappearing ink function appears to each user to function independently on each user interface and or .

In another embodiment the peer to peer application receives an erase ink directive from the user interface before the peer to peer application either receives an erase directive or the clock reaches the period of time. In this embodiment the peer to peer application can immediately erase one or more of the visual indicia in the document . Allowing the user to erase the visual indicia before the expiration of the period of time provides the user with control over the clutter on the user interface .

A user may enter two or more visual indicia into a document . In embodiments of the present invention each visual indicia starts a new clock or and either creates a new erase directive and or a new erase ink function . Thus the documents and can display multiple visual indicia which all disappear at different times. In other embodiments the system works in reverse with the peer to peer application also sending mark directives and or erase directives to the other peer to peer application . Thus a second user may enter a pen as pointer input into the user interface . Then any edits to the document create visual indicia that are broadcast to the first peer to peer application .

In some embodiments the mark directive and the erase directive receive a higher or highest priority for transmission over the network . The network may be transmitting several communications between the peer to peer applications and . Each communication can have a priority for transmission. If a communication has a low priority the lower priority communication may wait a period of time before the network transmits the lower priority communication as other higher priority communications are first sent over the network . However the mark directive and the erase directive may be time sensitive. In other words when a mark is placed on document the mark needs to appear on document relatively quickly to ensure that the users conversation is not stilted waiting for the appearance of the marks and or . A delay of 10 seconds may be too long in some situations while a delay of 1 minute may be appropriate in other situations. Regardless the network can assign a higher or highest priority for transmission to the mark directive or erase directive to ensure there is not an unnecessary time delay between the appearance of the marks and on the documents and . An exemplary method for generating temporary visual indicia is shown in . First send operation sends a marking directive such as mark directive to display visual indicia such as visual indicia . In one embodiment a peer to peer application such as application broadcasts a mark directive over a network such as network to one or more other peer to peer applications such as application . In a further embodiment the marking directive directs the connected peer to peer applications to render a visual indicia on a document such as document and or displayed on a display device such as display device and or . Then wait operation waits a period of time. In embodiments the peer to peer application starts a clock such as clock and or to count for a period of time. The peer to peer application then waits for the clock to reach the period of time.

In response to the predetermined period of time having elapsed erase operation automatically erases the visual indicia. In one embodiment the peer to peer application broadcasts an erase directive such as erase directive to direct the erasure of the visual indicia. In another embodiment the peer to peer application sends an erase ink function such function to erase the visual indicia without receiving an erase directive. In all embodiments no user input is required to erase the visual indicia after sending the marking directive. However in some embodiments the user may erase the visual indicia before the visual indicia are automatically erased.

A further embodiment of a method for generating temporary visual indicia is shown in . In embodiments exchange operation exchanges a document such as document . In one embodiment a peer to peer application such as application sends document data such as document to at least one other peer to peer application such as application . The other peer to peer applications send the document to a user interface such as user interface to display the document. Then receive operation receives a pen as pointer input such as input . In one embodiment the user selects a pen as pointer control such as control with a cursor such as cursor . The pen as pointer input informs the peer to peer application that the input that follows is in disappearing ink. 

Receive operation then receives a pen input such as input in a portion of the document. In one embodiment the user selects a drawing function in the user interface and uses the cursor to draw pen like visual indicia on the document. Then send operation sends a marking directive such as marking directive to the other peer to peer applications. In embodiments the other peer to peer applications translate the marking directive into a draw ink function such as function and render visual indicia such as visual indicia on the document rendered in the display device such as computer system . In response to sending the marking directive receiving the marking directive or receiving the pen input start operation starts a clock such as clock and or . The clock counts for a predetermined period of time. In one embodiment each peer to peer application starts its own clock. In another embodiment only the peer to peer application that sent the marking directive starts a clock.

In response to the clock counting for the period of time erase operation automatically erases the visual indicia from the document. In embodiments of the present invention each peer to peer application erases the pen ink from the document. In another embodiment optional send operation sends an erase directive such as erase directive . In one embodiment the peer to peer application sends an erase directive to the other peer to peer applications. The other peer to peer applications translate the erase directive into an erase ink function such as function that deletes the visual indicia from the document.

The present invention relates to software components classes and object for generating temporary visual indicia. A Folder class provides objects for managing data in a peer to peer application. Under the Folder class a Section class provides objects for managing certain types of documents such as text document notes spreadsheets etc. Under the Section class a Pages class provides objects to manage instantiations of particular documents of a certain document type managed by the Section class. Pages objects may be text objects image objects etc. One object in the Pages class is an Ink object. Ink objects have a property for type of ink. If the ink is to be automatically erased the ink object is a PointerInk object and has a property set that the ink should be automatically erased. When the PointerInk object is sent to another peer to peer application in response to a user interface action the sending peer to peer application reads the property starts the clock and sends the marking directive. In response to the clock reaching the predetermined period of time the peer to peer application sends an erase directive to delete the PointerInk object.

Although the present invention has been described in language specific to structural features methodological acts and computer readable media containing such acts it is to be understood that the present invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific structure acts or media described. One skilled in the art will recognize other embodiments or improvements that are within the scope and spirit of the present invention. Therefore the specific structure acts or media are disclosed as exemplary embodiments of implementing the claimed invention. The invention is defined by the appended claims.

