---

title: Systems and methods for managing a software subscription in a cloud network
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for managing a software subscription between an independent software vendor (ISV) and a cloud network provider. In embodiments, the software subscription can be a Software as a Service (SaaS) agreement whereby an amount of resources of the cloud network to be operated by end users can be specified. In embodiments, a resource tracking module associated with the cloud network can track the actual amount of resources operated by the end users in executing applications associated with the ISV. The resource tracking module can compare the actual amount to the amount specified in the SaaS, and adjust the resources of the cloud network accordingly. In embodiments, the SaaS can be updated based on the adjustment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606667&OS=08606667&RS=08606667
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08606667
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100226
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for managing a software subscription in a cloud network and more particularly to platforms and techniques for tracking end user operation in a cloud network and adjusting resources in the cloud network based on the end user operation.

Independent software vendors ISVs can allow their software products and applications to be executed and operated by end users via one or more virtual machines in a cloud network. The usage by the end users can be mapped to a Software as a Service SaaS whereby the ISVs can be charged a rate that can be proportional or appropriate to the amount of end user operation. The rate can be agreed to upon execution of an agreement between the ISVs and a cloud network provider that estimates the amount of resources associated with the virtual machines that will be used by the end users during operation of the products and applications. For instance the agreement can be a subscription contract whereby the ISVs are allocated an amount of virtual machine resources and or usage time on a periodic basis such as for example monthly or annually. For further instance the agreement can allow for the ISVs to rent time and or resources in the cloud network on an on demand basis for a fee.

Situations can arise however whereby the actual amount of cloud network resources used by the end users in the operation of the applications varies with the amount estimated in the original agreement. In particular an ISV can find that a certain application is being operated more or less than expected. As such the ISV can be forced to pay on demand rates for more resources or conversely the ISV can be charged the rate specified in the original agreement but which is more than what is proportional to the actual end user operation.

Therefore it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for managing a software subscription in a cloud network. In particular it may be desirable to scale available cloud network resources based on an actual amount of end user operation of the cloud network resources. Further it may be desirable to modify an associated agreement between an ISV and the cloud network based on the scaling of the resources.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for managing a software subscription in a cloud network. According to aspects embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for tracking end user operation in a cloud network and adjusting resources in the cloud network based on the end user operation. In aspects the end user operation can be a set of users accessing via a set of virtual machines application or product resources provided by one or more ISVs. As understood herein a software subscription or subscription plan can be an agreement between a software vendor and a cloud network provider whereby the cloud network provider can provide resources such as virtual machines through which end users can operate products and applications of the software vendor. In aspects the cloud network provider can charge the software vendor a fee based on the amount and the frequency that the end users use the resources among other factors.

In aspects a resource tracking or billing module can be independent of any one ISV or other vendor and independent of any one cloud network. In aspects the resource tracking module can be implemented on a cloud management system and can be configured to monitor resource usage in the cloud network for example the usage associated with end users operating the applications and products via one or more instantiated virtual machines. In aspects the resource tracking module can compare the monitored resource usage to an estimated usage established in a subscription plan between an ISV and a cloud network provider. In aspects the resource tracking module can be configured to modify or adjust resources associated with the cloud network based on the comparison and update the subscription plan. For instance the resource tracking module can scale up or down the number of or time allotted to the virtual machines of the cloud network.

Instead of situations where an ISV may be forced to pay on an on demand basis for resources that exceed the resources specified in the subscription plan or situations where an ISV may be charged an amount for resources that is disproportionate to the amount actually used by the end users the subscription plan can be modified and the associated resources can be scalable such that the ISV can pay an amount appropriate to the actual usage of the resources in the cloud network. Therefore ISVs can save money throughout the life of the subscription plan and time in the creation of the subscription plan. Further the subscription plan modification methods and systems can make for a more streamlined process.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource. For example one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver to and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications or software. Other types of resource servers are possible.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more of the set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in the set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments as shown the cloud management system can comprise a resource tracking module configured to interface with the set of instantiated virtual machines via the network to record or track usage associated with resources in the cloud based network . It should be appreciated that the resource tracking module can be implemented on other hardware and or software components configured to interface with the other components and entities described herein.

In embodiments the set of ISVs can comprise one or more vendors who download provision or otherwise deliver software applications or other software hardware or other products or services to users accessing the cloud based network . In aspects the users can be end users of the set of instantiated virtual machines located in the cloud based network . In aspects each vendor in set of ISVs can deliver software product s and or maintain users in one or multiple clouds and or across multiple products and or product lines. In aspects the resource tracking module can track and record usage associated with the set of software applications products and the like by end users in the cloud based network . For instance the usage can be via the set of instantiated virtual machines . In aspects the resource tracking module can be configured to communicate with the set of ISVs the set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines hosts nodes or resources.

The resource tracking module can be configured to receive a request to use resources in the cloud . In particular the request can be received from one or more of the set of ISVs for use by end users of one or more of the set of instantiated virtual machines . The use of the one or more of the set of instantiated virtual machines can be for the end users to operate software applications products services and the like provided by the one or more of the set of ISVs .

In aspects the request can specify a subscription plan between a provider of the cloud based network and the one more of the set of ISVs and associated with the use of the set of instantiated virtual machines . For instance the subscription plan can specify a on demand model wherein the ISVs can be charged when the end users operate the software applications and or products via the set of instantiated virtual machines . For further instance the subscription plan can specify a time period model wherein the ISVs can be charged a flat fee per a time period of operation by the end users such as for example monthly or annually.

The frequency and the amount of the end users operation of the software applications and or products can however vary for various reasons. In the present embodiments the resource tracking module can be configured to track a usage of the software applications on the set of instantiated virtual machines by the end users and compare the usage to a usage amount specified in the subscription plan. For instance the actual usage by the end users may be more or less than the usage amount specified in the applicable subscription plan. As a result the resource tracking module can be configured to adjust resources associated with the set of instantiated virtual machines based on any discrepancies. In particular various hardware and software resources provided by the set of resource servers supporting the set of instantiated virtual machines can be adjusted to accommodate an increase or decrease in end user operations such as for example increasing or decreasing the number of instantiated virtual machines available to the end users. It should be appreciated that other various ways of adjusting the resources are envisioned.

Further the subscription plan can specify various options to accommodate usage discrepancies. For instance the subscription plan can specify the possibility for example by a flat rate or other charges to increase available resources associated with the set of instantiated virtual machines and the set of resource servers . Similarly the subscription plan can specify that charges assessed to an ISV can be reduced if the actual usage by the end users is less than anticipated by the subscription plan. For further instance the subscription plan can specify that if an ISV pays in advance then any increase in resources can be assessed without a fee or with a reduced fee. It should be appreciated that a variety of subscription plans and associated resource adjustment methods and systems are envisioned. In further aspects the resource tracking module can be configured to update the subscription plan to coordinate with an increase or decrease in available resources.

Processor also communicates with computer readable storage medium and the resource tracking module to execute control logic allow for monitoring computing processes as described herein and control the operation of virtual machines and other resources in cloud . Other configurations of cloud management system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

In the tracked usage of the software applications by the end users can be compared to a usage specified in the request. In embodiments the request can specify a subscription plan that charges the software vendor a rate based on an amount of time or an amount of resource usage associated with operation of the set of virtual machines. In the resources associated with the set of virtual machines can be adjusted based on results of the comparison of . For instance if the actual tracked usage is more or less than an anticipated amount specified in the subscription plan then the resource tracking module or the cloud management system can reallocate resources associated with the set of virtual machines and or an underlying set of resource servers. In particular the reallocation can adjust the amount of time allotted to end users to operate the set of virtual machines adjust the quantity of resources available to the end users and other modifications and adjustments.

In the subscription plan associated with the applicable software vendor can be updated based on the resource adjustment of . In particular the subscription plan can be modified so that the applicable ISV can be charged more or less depending on how much of the resources are used relative to the usage anticipated in the original subscription plan. In embodiments the subscription plan can be adjusted automatically or manually and at regular intervals or on demand. It should be appreciated that other ways to adjust the subscription plan and associated fees are envisioned. In the processing can end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described which operate using one resource tracking module and associated cloud management system in embodiments one or more of resource tracking module and associated cloud management system and or other servers data stores and or other logic or resources can be used. For further example while embodiments have been described in which cloud resources and subscription plans are modified or adjusted in embodiments the subscription plans associated fees and resources associated with the plans can be modified or adjusted according to any combination and at any time or interval. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

