---

title: Interactive ID system using mobile devices
abstract: An interactive ID system enables dynamic delivery of content to a mobile device of a person on a campus. The system includes an interactive ID server coupled to receive a tag ID of a near field communication (NFC) tag and a reader ID of an NFC reader in communication with the NFC tag, in which one of the NFC tag and the NFC reader is on the mobile device and either the tag ID or the reader ID is associated with the person. The interactive ID server determines and communicates the content provided to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08731583&OS=08731583&RS=08731583
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08731583
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20100104
---
The present invention relates in general to communication systems and in particular to campus networks with near field communication devices.

Students on university campuses typically use their student identity ID cards to gain access to dormitories classrooms student centers and other campus facilities. These plastic ID cards contain a magnetic stripe or a near field communication NFC chip that when swiped or touched to an existing campus reader causes a door access control system to grant access and open the door. Data on the magnetic stripe or the NFC card may also be linked to the student s identification to trigger payments for purchases. For example a student may use his her card to pay for a meal in the cafeteria or to purchase books in the campus bookstore.

However in existing student ID systems the information flow caused by touching the badge to a reader is unidirectional i.e. from the student to the system. In fact although most students already carry mobile devices and many of these are smart phones capable of browsing the web and receiving immediate and asynchronous alerts such as text messages and push notifications in current student ID systems no information is sent back to the student relating to the touch of his her identification card to a reader. Thus current student ID systems do not provide additional information that can be automatically delivered in a real time and timely way back from the system to the student.

In a different context mobile devices have been proposed for making purchases in coffee shops by displaying 2D barcodes read by point of sale readers. In addition next generation mobile devices have been proposed that contain NFC readers capable of reading tags on posters and billboards for delivery of advertisements. However there has been no coupling or integration of these NFC devices to the existing legacy door access and control systems typically found on almost every university and college campus worldwide.

An interactive ID server in one embodiment of the present invention includes an interface coupled to a network to receive a tag ID of a near field communication NFC tag and a reader ID of an NFC reader in communication with the NFC tag. In this embodiment either the NFC tag or the NFC reader is on a mobile device of an authorized person on a campus and either the tag ID or the reader ID is associated with the authorized person. The interactive student ID server further includes a processor operable to determine content to be provided to the mobile device of the authorized person based on the tag ID and the reader ID and to communicate the content to the mobile device. The content may be for example a phone call a recorded message a uniform resource locator URL of a website or other data that is communicated to the mobile device via a telephone call short message system SMS message a data push notification message or other similar communication mechanism.

In one embodiment the interface includes a network interface coupled to a local area network LAN of the campus and an external interface coupled to an additional network. For example the additional network can include a wireless access network for communicating with the mobile device and the processor can communicate the content to the mobile device via the external interface. The network interface is also coupled to either the NFC reader or the NFC tag via the LAN and is further coupled to a legacy ID server of the campus via the LAN.

In an exemplary embodiment the network interface is operable to receive the tag ID and the reader ID from the NFC reader coupled to the LAN. In another exemplary embodiment the external interface is operable to receive the tag ID and the reader ID from the NFC reader on the mobile device and the network interface is coupled to provide the tag ID and the reader ID to the legacy ID server. In yet another embodiment the processor is further operable to determine parameters of the content from the tag ID and the reader ID and identify data needed to satisfy the parameters and the network interface is operable to retrieve at least a portion of the data for the content from the legacy ID server.

An interactive identity ID system in another embodiment of the present invention includes a first near field communication NFC device coupled to a local area network of a campus a mobile device of an authorized person of the campus having a second near field communication NFC device for communicating with the first NFC device and an interactive ID server coupled to the local area network and an additional network external to the local area network in which the additional network includes a wireless access network for communicating with the mobile device. In this embodiment one of the first and second NFC devices is an NFC tag and the other is an NFC reader and the interactive ID server is operable to receive a tag ID of the NFC tag and a reader ID of the NFC reader when the NFC reader is in communication with the NFC tag. Either the tag ID or the reader ID is associated with the authorized person. The interactive ID server is further operable to determine content to be provided to the mobile device of the authorized person based on the tag ID and the reader ID and to communicate the content to the mobile device via the wireless access network.

A method in yet another embodiment of the invention is provided for dynamic delivery of content to a mobile device on a campus. The method includes receiving a tag identity ID of a near field communication NFC tag and a reader ID of an NFC reader in communication with the NFC tag at an interactive ID server on the campus in which one of the NFC tag and the NFC reader is on the mobile device. The method further includes determining content to be provided to the mobile device based on the tag ID and the reader ID and communicating the content to the mobile device via a wireless access network.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention an Interactive Student ID ISID system is provided whereby a near field communication device NFC is fixed to a mobile device or smart phone of a student or other authorized person on a college campus. Thus instead of touching a plastic card to a reader students use their mobile devices or smart phones thereby triggering not only one way legacy operations such as opening doors or making purchases on campus but also causing dynamic content to be delivered to the mobile device thereby allowing the student to interact via two way data operations and to make informed decisions choices and selections.

For example when making a purchase in a bookstore or cafeteria using the NFC device on the mobile device a student can be immediately presented with current balances of different accounts via the mobile device thereby enabling the student to select the most appropriate account for making a payment. As another example when touching the NFC device on the mobile device to an NFC device on a classroom s door not only can the door be opened but the student can also receive an automatic and immediate notification on his her mobile device with links for downloading today s classroom content. In a further example when touching the NFC device on the mobile device to an NFC device on a dormitory door not only can the door be opened but the student can also receive dynamic web content such as YouTube links or other dynamic web links related to current dormitory activities and events or interfaces to Facebook Twitter and other social networks for timely status updates and other information. The ISID system may also generate the status updates on Facebook Twitter etc. and then report the status updates to the student via the mobile device.

The ISID system efficiently integrates existing mobile devices and legacy door access control systems in order to avoid forklift replacement of legacy phones and legacy door access control systems thereby minimizing cost and providing a practical solution. Thus campuses can retain their existing access control systems and achieve improved functionality via system add ons and upgrades to their legacy infrastructure. Likewise students staff and other authorized persons can keep their existing mobile devices and take advantage of the improved functionality.

As used herein the term NFC refers to a short range high frequency wireless communication technology that enables the exchange of data between devices over about a small e.g. 20 centimeter or less distance. NFC communicates via magnetic field induction where two loop antennas are located within each other s near field effectively forming an air core transformer and typically operates within the 125 kHz frequency band and or the 13.56 MHz frequency band.

An NFC tag stores identification data for use in identifying the authorized person while an NFC reader operates as an interrogator to retrieve the identification data stored on the NFC tag. The NFC tag may be an active tag that includes an internal power source such as a battery and or a passive tag that does not contain an internal power source but instead is remotely powered by the NFC reader.

As described above communication between the NFC reader and the NFC tag is enabled by radio frequency RF signals. In general to access the identification data stored on an NFC tag the NFC reader generates a modulated RF interrogation signal designed to evoke a modulated RF response from a tag. The RF response from the tag includes the coded identification data stored in the NFC tag. The NFC reader decodes the coded identification data to identify the person associated with the NFC tag. For passive tags the NFC reader also generates an unmodulated continuous wave CW signal to activate and power the tag during data transfer.

The NFC device coupled to the LAN of the college campus may be for example an NFC tag or an NFC reader that is capable of communicating with another NFC device when placed in close proximity therewith. For example if NFC device is an NFC tag and NFC device is an NFC reader after coming into close proximity the NFC reader communicates with the NFC tag to retrieve the identification data i.e. tag ID that identifies the authorized person associated with the NFC tag . The NFC reader then provides the tag ID along with the reader ID of the NFC reader to the legacy student ID server via the LAN . The legacy student ID server communicates with the student account system and or the access control system to provide legacy services such as enabling the student to make a purchase or opening a door to enable the student to gain access to a campus facility. For point of sale terminals incorporating an NFC reader the NFC reader can further be programmed to provide a sale amount cost of goods services to be purchased by student to the legacy student ID server as either part of the reader ID or as data in addition to the reader ID.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention to provide two way interactive data operations the NFC device is included on a mobile device of a student or other authorized person of the college campus e.g. professor staff member etc. and the tag ID and the reader ID are further provided to the ISID server which triggers automatic delivery of real time interactive content to the mobile device . By way of example but not limitation the mobile device may include any type of mobile or wireless device such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer or other similar mobile device.

To deliver the content to the mobile device the ISID server is coupled to another network which may be external to the LAN . For example as shown in the ISID server is coupled to a wireless access network . The wireless access network includes any network capable of providing wireless connectivity to the mobile device . By way of example but not limitation the wireless access network can include one or more of a GSM network a CDMA network a UMTS network a GPRS network a WiFi network a WiMax network an LTE network or any other similar network.

In the ISID server is further coupled to a communication network such as a packet switched and or circuit switched network. For example the communication network may include but is not limited to one or more of an Internet Protocol IP Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Ethernet or PSTN. The ISID server may couple to the communication network to provide data to applications enabled service providers to determine content to be provided to the mobile device and or to assist with delivery of the content to the mobile device . Thus the content may be delivered to the mobile device via the communication network and the wireless access network . However although the ISID server is shown coupled to the wireless access network via the communication network in other embodiments the ISID server may also be coupled directly to the wireless access network . For example the ISID server may act as a wireless access point within the wireless access network .

In embodiments in which NFC device is an NFC reader and NFC device is an NFC tag the NFC tag can be attached to the back surface of the mobile device to enable efficient communication with the NFC reader . The NFC tag should be durable and robust since the mobile device may be removed and inserted into a carrying case pocket purse backpack or other carrying apparatus many times during its course of usage. However since magnetic induction can occur through leather plastic rubber and other materials there is typically no need for the student to remove his her mobile device from the carrying case to use the NFC tag . Although a single small form factor NFC tag is depicted NFC tags having larger or smaller surface areas operating at different frequencies and perhaps containing not only the NFC chip but also barcodes photographs etc are envisioned in other embodiments of the invention.

In an exemplary operation after coming into close proximity the NFC reader communicates with the NFC tag to retrieve the identification data i.e. tag ID that identifies the authorized person associated with the NFC tag . The NFC reader then provides the tag ID along with the reader ID of the NFC reader to not only the legacy student ID server via the LAN but also the ISID server . The legacy student ID server performs traditional one way legacy services as described above whereas the ISID server causes dynamic content to be delivered to the mobile device thereby allowing the student to interact with the ISID system via two way data operations. Examples of content include a recorded voice message interaction with a live operator a uniform resource locator URL of a website containing additional information or other types of data.

Since the NFC tag is attached to the mobile device and the NFC reader is located within the campus infrastructure the mobile device is typically completely unaware that the communication has happened and may be in an idle or sleep mode. To ensure the timely and asynchronous delivery of the content the ISID system provides different methods for awakening the idle mobile device and for initiating two way interactivity in a timely manner. In one method the ISID server places a telephone call to mobile device . The telephone number of the phone call is linked to the tag ID which is associated to the student and the content of the telephone call is linked to the reader ID and optionally the tag ID . In this way the student might hear a recording interact with an interactive voice response IVR system be joined into a conference call etc.

In another method the ISID delivers a Short Message System SMS message to the mobile device . Again the telephone number of the mobile device for the SMS is linked to the tag Id which is associated to the student whereas the content of the SMS is linked to the reader ID and optionally the tag ID . In this way an asynchronous text message can be delivered to the mobile device. The contents of this SMS message might be a URL or web link to dynamic content. For example the SMS message might contain a link to YouTube multimedia content describing current dormitory events or happenings in the student center. As another example the SMS message may contain a URL or Tiny URL causing automatic login to a portal summarizing the student s account balances meal points campus bucks etc.

In one embodiment standard SMS services might be used with campus based or Internet based SMS gateways and delivery services. In another embodiment special arrangements can be made with mobile device network service provider to deliver ISID related SMS messages at no cost or with bulk cost or via other special business arrangements between the network service provider and the university. The network service provider might also enable via an applications enabled network or other means delivery of these special SMS messages with higher priority delivery times so as to minimize latency between the time a reader is touched and the time is takes to deliver the text message containing links to the mobile device.

In yet another method the ISID server can exploit a data notification service that delivers asynchronous events to mobile devices. For example the ISID might use the Apple Push Notification Services APNS to efficiently deliver push messages to mobile devices. After NFC communication the ISID server can trigger the delivery of such a notification to the mobile device . Upon acknowledgment of the alert which can be received even if the mobile device is in its idle or sleep mode the student s mobile device would automatically browse to a specific URL designated in the APNS message.

In another embodiment NFC device is an NFC tag and NFC device is an NFC reader. In this embodiment the NFC reader can be either externally attached to the mobile device or can be integrated into the mobile device . If the NFC reader is integrated into the mobile device the NFC reader may be programmed to provide additional functionality to the user such as synchronization with a personal computer PC or other type of functionality.

In an exemplary operation after coming into close proximity the NFC reader on the mobile device communicates with the NFC tag to retrieve the identification data i.e. tag ID that identifies the campus article i.e. door campus point of sale terminal etc. associated with the NFC tag . The NFC reader then provides the tag ID along with the reader ID of the NFC reader to the ISID server via the wireless access network . The ISID server communicates the tag ID and the reader ID to the legacy student ID server via the LAN . The legacy student ID server performs traditional one way legacy services as described above whereas the ISID server causes dynamic content to be delivered to the mobile device via the wireless access network .

The NFC device may be externally attached to the mobile device or may be integrated within the mobile device . In embodiments in which the NFC device is an NFC reader integrated into the mobile device the memory can maintain an ISID application that may be downloadable from the network such as from an on line application store on the Internet. The processor is further coupled to the memory to execute instructions of the ISID application . For example the processor can execute instructions of the ISID application to cause the NFC reader to communicate with an NFC tag on campus to retrieve the tag ID and to provide the tag ID and reader ID to the ISID system on campus to enable legacy services and new interactive content services to be provided to the user of the mobile device .

The radio interface provides a connection to the wireless access network shown in via transceiver to transmit and or receive voice and or data to from the ISID system. For example the radio interface allows data to be received from and sent to transceiver . For data received from transceiver e.g. inbound data the radio interface provides the data to the processor for further processing and or routing to output interface . Output interface provides connectivity to an output device such as a display monitor speakers etc. such that the received data may be displayed viewed and or heard . Radio interface also provides data from processor to transceiver . Processor may receive the outbound data from an input device such as a keyboard keypad microphone etc. via input interface or generate the data itself. For data received via input interface processor may perform a communication function on the data and or route it to transceiver via radio interface .

As used herein the term processor is generally understood to be a device that drives a general purpose computer such as a PC. It is noted however that other processing devices such as microcontrollers Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs or a combination thereof can be used as well to achieve the benefits and advantages described herein. In addition as used herein the term memory includes any type of data storage device including but not limited to a hard drive random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or other type of storage device or storage medium.

The memory maintains an ISID application and the processor is further coupled to the memory to execute instructions of the ISID application . For example the processor can execute instructions of the ISID application to receive a tag ID and reader ID from a respective NFC tag and NFC reader one of which is associated with an authorized person on a college campus and the other of which is associated with an article or other object on the college campus. In embodiments in which the NFC reader is coupled to the LAN the tag ID and reader ID can be received via the network interface . In embodiments in which the NFC reader is integrated with a mobile device the tag ID and reader ID can be received via the external interface .

The processor can further execute instructions of the ISID application to determine particular content to be delivered to a mobile device of the authorized person based on the tag ID and the reader ID and to deliver the content to the mobile device. In an exemplary operation the memory further maintains a listing of mobile device telephone numbers and associated tag ID s or reader ID s. The processor can access the memory to identify the telephone number of the mobile device from the tag ID or reader ID.

In one embodiment the processor uses the retrieved telephone number to place a telephone call to the mobile device via the external interface . For example the processor can initiate a telephone call between the mobile device and a conferencing collaboration controller to enable the user of the mobile device to hear a pre recorded message. The conferencing collaboration controller can be located within the ISID server as shown or external to the ISID server . If within the ISID server administrators or other authorized personnel can dial into the ISID server to record messages on the conferencing collaboration controller and associate the recorded messages with particular tag ID s and or reader ID s. For example a professor or other administrator can pre record a message for students to hear upon entering the classroom i.e. if class has been canceled or rescheduled to a different place time and the student can hear the message upon entering the classroom.

The conferencing collaboration controller may further provide interactive voice response IVR services to enable a user of the mobile device to provide responses to the ISID server . For example upon hearing that class has been canceled the user may be prompted to enter 1 to be connected to the professor or another administrator on campus to answer additional questions. As another example the conferencing collaboration controller may enable the processor to initiate a conference call between the mobile device and another party or join the mobile device to an ongoing conference call. For example the processor can issue suitable Application Programming Interface API commands to the conferencing collaboration controller internal or external to the ISID server to dial out to the mobile device and other parties. The conferencing collaboration controller may be implemented in hardware and or software.

In another embodiment the processor uses the retrieved telephone number of the mobile device to deliver a Short Message System SMS message or other type of text message to the mobile device. The contents of the SMS message might be a URL or web link to dynamic content. In yet another embodiment the processor uses the retrieved telephone number of the mobile device to deliver a data notification message to the mobile device. For example the data notification message may cause the student s mobile device to automatically browse to a specific URL designated in the data notification message.

Turning now to various exemplary mechanisms for integrating the interactive student ID server within a legacy student ID system are illustrated in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In the NFC tag is attached to the mobile device of the student and the NFC reader is included within the LAN of the college campus and is coupled to the ISID server via the LAN.

In the ISID server is coupled to the LAN IP network to act as a man in the middle element. Thus in at step when the NFC tag provides the tag ID to the NFC reader the NFC reader transmits the tag ID and reader ID to the legacy student ID server . At step the ISID server intercepts the tag ID and reader ID and at step the ISID server relays the tag reader ID data towards the legacy student ID server . This type of interception and relay typically requires the ISID server to understand and decode the IP protocol utilized by the legacy system and may further require the ISID server be provided with any decryption keys and methods if the tag reader ID data is encrypted.

Once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the ISID server at step the ISID server determines the parameters of the content to be provided to the mobile device based on the tag ID and reader ID. For example the ISID server may determine that the content to be delivered to the mobile device includes the current student account balances of the student associated with the mobile device . In addition once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the legacy student ID server at step the legacy student ID server processes the tag ID and reader ID to provide legacy services such as enabling the student to make a purchase or opening a campus door. Thereafter at step the ISID server may optionally communicate with the legacy student ID server to retrieve any data necessary for the content. For example the ISID server may optionally communicate with the legacy student ID server to retrieve the student account balances. Once the content has been completed at step the ISID server provides the content to the mobile device .

Again as in once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the ISID server at step the ISID server determines the parameters of the content to be provided to the mobile device based on the tag ID and reader ID. In addition once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the legacy student ID server at step the legacy student ID server processes the tag ID and reader ID to provide legacy services such as enabling the student to make a purchase or opening a campus door. Thereafter at step the ISID server may optionally communicate with the legacy student ID server to retrieve any data necessary for the content and at step the ISID server provides the content to the mobile device . Again this mechanism may require that the ISID server be able to understand and interpret the IP communication protocol between the NFC readers and the legacy student ID server .

Thereafter at step the legacy student ID server provides the tag ID and reader ID to the ISID server . For example the ISID server can periodically poll the legacy student ID server for tags events or can asynchronously receive the tag events as they occur in real time. Again once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the ISID server at step the ISID server determines the parameters of the content to be provided to the mobile device based on the tag ID and reader ID. Thereafter at step the ISID server may optionally communicate with the legacy student ID server to retrieve any data necessary for the content and at step the ISID server provides the content to the mobile device .

In this integration mechanism the serial data between the NFC reader element and the IP izer is split and is sent in parallel to a second IP izer element having a known IP protocol as its output which in turn then forwards its IP data tag ID and reader ID to the ISID server . By utilizing a separate IP izer for the ISID sever the ISID server does not need to decode any private protocol to from the legacy student ID system which may be unknown or encrypted.

The ISID server as before utilizes the tag ID and reader ID and other information provided by the NFC reader to determine content to be provided to the mobile device and delivers the content to the mobile device via the wireless access network possibly via the communication network . By including the NFC reader within the mobile device such a next generation mobile device is automatically awakened by the triggering action of the internal NFC reader and does not necessarily need to rely on the service provider network for timely asynchronous event delivery. In other words when an NFC communication occurs using the next generation mobile device the mobile device pulls information from the network in contrast to present generation mobile devices which require the network to push information.

Thus in at step when the NFC tag on the door controller provides the tag ID to the NFC reader on the mobile device at step the mobile device transmits the tag ID and reader ID to the ISID server via the wireless access network. At step the ISID server transmits the tag reader ID data to the legacy student ID server . Once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the ISID server at step the ISID server determines the parameters of the content to be provided to the mobile device based on the tag ID and reader ID.

In addition once the tag ID and reader ID are received by the legacy student ID server at step the legacy student ID server processes the tag ID and reader ID to determine if the door controlled by the door controller should be opened. If so at step the legacy student ID server commands the door controller to open the door.

At step the ISID server may communicate with the legacy student ID server to retrieve any data necessary for the content. For example the ISID server may communicate with the legacy student ID server to determine whether door access was granted and to formulate the content based on whether or not the door was opened. Once the content has been completed at step the ISID server provides the content to the mobile device .

Although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being applicable to a student ID system it should be understood that the present invention is also applicable to many other types of campuses such as hospitals and corporations that use ID cards for legacy access control purchasing and or other ID related services.

As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the innovative concepts described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide range of applications. Accordingly the scope of patents subject matter should not be limited to any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed but is instead defined by the following claims.

