---

title: System and method for playing a role-playing game
abstract: A method and apparatus for playing role-playing game is provided that involves wagering. In one example game, players subscribe to multiple game sessions and eliminate other players to become the sole survivor of the game. The players may accrue points by eliminating other players. Further, players may eliminate other players in a combat environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08529351&OS=08529351&RS=08529351
owner: Scientific Games Holdings Limited
number: 08529351
owner_city: Ballymahon, Co. Longford.
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20101221
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 137 785 filed May 25 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 854 653 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PLAYING A ROLE PLAYING GAME by Steven N. Kane which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 574 144 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PLAYING A ROLE PLAYING GAME filed May 25 2004 each of which applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to games that can be played on a computer and more particularly to role playing games.

Role playing games or RPGs originated in interactive literature and became popular in the form of tabletop role playing games. Such games have developed into computer games many of which were originally single player text based games. Computer based role playing games have developed over the years adding graphics multiplayer capabilities and other features.

Computer role playing games are distinguished from other computer adventure games primarily by the player being allowed to create a character or a group of characters by choosing ability scores equipment and other attributes similar to a character generation process that takes place in traditional tabletop role playing games. Unlike tabletop role playing games however computer role playing games largely remain a single player experience or have limited multiple player capabilities. Like other kinds of computer adventure games success is achieved by finding a correct path through the pre programmed obstacles and hazards. Several conventional computer role playing games include for example role playing games from Strategic Simulations Inc. SSI based on the popular Advanced Dungeons Dragons tabletop role playing games available from TSR Inc. Ultima Series role playing games available from Origin Systems and more recently the Diablo role playing game available from Blizzard Entertainment.

Multi user computer role playing games are known by a variety of acronyms which normally indicate stylistic rather than technical differences. The majority of these games fall into two broad categories. Multi User Dungeons or MUDs type games favor action and combat with players fighting monsters and even other players in the effort to become more powerful. By contrast games of a Multi User Shared Hallucination MUSH or Multi User Shared Environment MUSE type place more emphasis on nonviolent interaction between players. In these game types some game sessions become intensely political as players plot and compete for influence while others are closer to group storytelling than to a competitive game.

Apart from the shared characteristics of supporting multiple players over a network or the Internet and allowing each player a single game persona or character features of these types of games are various. For instance some games are entirely human moderated and others are computer moderated to varying degrees. Some are entirely text based and some use graphics and sound to varying degrees. A list of example MUDs and other similar games may be found in the USENET newsgroup rec.games.mud.misc.

One aspect of the present invention relates to role playing games that can be adapted to a wagering game of skill and chance. Traditionally role playing games are for entertainment and are not associated with wagering. In another aspect of the present invention one or more players compete against each other or the computer to win prizes. These prizes may be awarded for achieving intermediate goals within a game session or an overall goal of an individual game session. Other prizes may be awarded to the player that achieves an ultimate goal among a number of game sessions such as being the sole survivor of the game.

In one example game format players compete against one another to become the sole survivor of the game. More particularly players may eliminate one or more other players from the game. In another example a first player is awarded points associated with a second player when the first player eliminates the second player from the game. In this manner players accrue points by eliminating other players but in so doing the player increases his her worth. According to another aspect of the present invention players are eliminated from the game by eliminating other players in a combat environment.

According to another aspect of the invention a player competes in a number of game sessions against one or more players. In yet another aspect the player subscribes to multiple game sessions by paying a subscription fee to a gaming operator. For instance the player may subscribe to multiple sessions in a jurisdiction that permits gambling such as a casino.

In another aspect the player is permitted to play the role playing game outside a jurisdiction that permits gambling e.g. on a computer coupled to the Internet . Players may also be permitted to place wagers on the outcome of individual game sessions other players the overall outcome of the game or other aspects of game play.

According to one aspect of the present invention a method of conducting a role playing game is provided. The method comprises acts of providing for an entry of at least one of the plurality of players into at least one session of the role playing game accepting payment for an entry fee by the at least one of the plurality of players the entry fee being associated with the at least one session of the role playing game and determining a player who wins a prize among the plurality of players playing in the at least one game session of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the role playing game is conducted using one or more computer systems. According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of determining the player who wins a prize includes an act of determining a sole survivor among the plurality of players that play the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of conducting the role playing game including an act of permitting fighting between at least two of the plurality of players. According to another embodiment of the present invention the prize is a monetary prize.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of providing the entry includes an act of subscribing the at least one of the plurality of players to a plurality of sessions of the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention the at least one of the plurality of players pays a subscription fee associated with the plurality of sessions of the role playing game with at least one of money credit debit and loyalty program credit. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of accepting at least one wager placed on the at least one of the plurality of players the at least one wager being a winning wager if the at least one of the plurality of players wins the at least one game session. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of accepting at least one wager placed on the at least one of the plurality of players the at least one wager being a winning wager if the at least one of the plurality of players wins a plurality of game sessions of the role playing game.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the role playing game comprises a plurality of game sessions and wherein the act of determining a player who wins a prize includes an act of determining a player that achieves the most points of any player that plays in the plurality of game sessions of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of providing for an entry of the at least one of the plurality of players into the at least one session of the role playing game comprises an act of providing for an entry of the at least one of the plurality of players in a plurality of game sessions of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of providing for an entry of the at least one of the plurality of players in a plurality of game sessions is performed within a jurisdiction that permits gambling. According to another embodiment of the present invention the at least one of the plurality of players is permitted to view at least one of the plurality of game sessions in an interface located outside of a jurisdiction that permits gambling.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of permitting the at least one player to purchase ammo for use in the at least one session of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of crediting another one of the plurality of players with points accrued by the at least one player if the another one of the plurality of players eliminates the at least one player from the at least one session of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of permitting the at least one player to enter a tournament including a plurality of role playing game sessions and collecting from the at least one player an entry fee for entering the tournament. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of permitting at least one user to place a wager on an outcome of the role playing game.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of providing an entry includes an act of entering a player into the at least one game session of the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention an act of receiving an entry fee from the player before the player enters the at least one game session of the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of determining the player who wins a prize among the plurality of players further comprises an act of determining which of the players has accumulated the highest number of points in the at least one session of the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention the role playing game comprises a plurality of game sessions of the role playing game and wherein the act of determining the player who wins a prize among the plurality of players further comprises an act of determining which of the plurality of players has accumulated the highest number of points in the plurality of game sessions of the role playing game. According to another embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of conducting the game session the act of conducting the game session comprising an act of providing ammunition for the at least one player to eliminate one or more other players from the at least one game session.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of conducting the game session. The act of conducting the game session comprises acts of accumulating for the at least one player an indicator identifying a worth of the at least one player and increasing the indicator when the at least one player eliminates one or more other players from the at least one game session of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of conducting the game session further comprises an act of increasing the indicator of the worth of the at least one player by an amount indicated by an indicator of a worth of at least one other player when the at least one player eliminates the at least one other player from the at least one game session of the role playing game. According to one embodiment of the present invention the method further comprises an act of determining at least one of the plurality of players that has accumulated a highest indicator of worth from among the plurality of players. According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of determining the at least one of the plurality of players that has accumulated a highest indicator of worth is performed at the end of the at least one game session of the role playing game.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the game session is conducted within a predetermined period of time. According to one embodiment of the present invention the act of conducting the game session further comprises an act of attributing to the at least one player upon entering the at least one game session an immortal status. According to another embodiment of the present invention the act of attributing an immortal status to the at least one player is performed over a finite period of time upon entering the game session of the role playing game. According to yet another embodiment of the present invention the act of conducting the game further comprises an act of prohibiting more experienced players from eliminating at least one new player entering the at least one game session of the role playing game.

The function and advantage of these and other embodiments of the present invention will be more fully understood from the examples described below. The following examples are intended to illustrate the benefits of the present invention but do not exemplify the full scope of the invention.

One aspect of the present invention relates to a role playing game that is adapted to a wagering game of skill and chance. In such a game players compete against each other to win one or more prizes. In one example a player that is the sole survivor of a number of game sessions wins a prize. For instance players subscribe to a number of game sessions in order to compete to be the last player standing. In one such game format players eliminate other players to become the last person standing in the game.

In one such game format players will eliminate e.g. by killing other players or will be eliminated e.g. killed from a series of multiple game sessions. In another example game format each player has a price associated with that player. When killed or otherwise eliminated from the game the player that kills or otherwise eliminates a particular player receives the price of that player e.g. as measured in points . Players may therefore accumulate points by eliminating e.g. by killing other players. In one example the game has a predetermined length e.g. time number of game sessions etc. and the player having the most points at the end of the game wins a prize.

However as a player accumulates points by eliminating other players the price e.g. a bounty on his her head increases and it follows that the player s worth to other players increases. Thus it may become more difficult as the game progresses for players having large bounties to survive in the game as they become more valuable to other players. In another example players may collaborate on eliminating other players and may split the points associated with eliminating those players. Players may form alliances with other players at least until they are in a position where they must eliminate each other to advance in the game.

According to one embodiment players who initially subscribe to the game may be allowed a brief introductory period into the role playing game where they are designated as being immortal e.g. the player cannot be eliminated from the game . Such an immortal status may be attributed to a new player so that the new player may be acclimated to the game environment e.g. to learn rules playing tricks and other skills . Further such a designation may be beneficial to prevent more experienced players from congregating at entry points of the game and eliminating new players as they emerge into the game.

In another embodiment a player is assigned an initial number of ammunition e.g. bullets but may purchase additional ammunition from the gaming operator for an additional fee. In yet another example game format the gaming operator may collect additional fees by charging a tournament entry fee above and beyond a player s separate contribution to a prize pool. In one example the prize pool may be funded by subscription fees received from the players to play the game. Further the game operator may generate additional revenue by taking bets from players or other bettors on outcomes. These wagers may be for example wagers on the outcome of individual game sessions other players the overall outcome of the game or other aspects of game play.

System includes an interface that interacts with a user e.g. a player to play a role playing game place wagers and communicate information relating to a game session. Interface may be for example an interface of a computer system. For example interface may include a computer generated interface presented by a browser program operating in a memory of a computer system. Although a browser based interface could be used it should be appreciated that any type of interface may be used and that the invention is not limited to any particular interface type.

System may also include a game processor that performs functions relating to conducting the role playing game and any other functions related to the game. For example processor may receive and process bets placed by users through interface conduct game sessions and rules of the role playing game and determine wins and payouts to players. Game processor may be for example one or more computer processes executing in a memory of system .

Information relating to game sessions may be stored in one or more storage entities associated with system . In one example storage may include one or more storage devices such as a disk. However it should be appreciated that storage may include any entity capable of storing data and the invention is not limited to any particular storage entity. Storage may for example store information directly relating to game play e.g. a number of players current score health status of the player current state of game play or other information relating to game play and payment.

System may include a payment component that receives payment information from a user . Payment information may be entered by a user manually through interface . Payments may include for example subscription fees to play one or more game sessions bets placed by the player or other payments. Bets placed by a player may include for example wagers placed by players or any additional bets e.g. tournament entry fees paid by a player in association with playing a game. Payment component may communicate with one or more payment systems for the purpose of obtaining payment for playing the game.

Prior to a game session a game player may need to pay for playing. For example a game player may pay using money or loyalty points. In particular a game player may pay using money by debit card credit card check cash or from an account credit either with the gaming operator or an affiliated organization. Alternatively a game player may pay using loyalty points from an account held either by the gaming operator or by an affiliated organization. Loyalty points may be obtained from any type of organization but are generally associated with loyalty programs such as frequent flier programs for airlines frequent stay programs for hotels or frequent visitor programs for casinos.

The game player may pay in person e.g. by using a cashier in a casino or through other remote methods including a telephone a cell phone a handheld device e.g. a PDA a kiosk a computer coupled through the Internet or other network a set top box and mail. Payment may be made in any form that is legal in the particular jurisdiction.

In one embodiment of the invention players may subscribe to play multiple consecutive game sessions. That is a player may pay at one time to play more than one game. According to one embodiment such a player may subscribe to multiple games using any payment method described above. These subscribed games may be automatically played for example by a computer system. In another embodiment a player may also choose to have his or her subscription automatically renewed.

According to one embodiment of the invention players may also enter to play this or any other wagering game of chance using an alternative method of entry AMOE . AMOE is a required available method of entry that does not require a purchase to enter a sweepstake sweepstakes are usually used as a promotional or marketing tool. An individual entering a sweepstakes by AMOE is required by law to have the same odds of winning each of the available prizes.

A common AMOE method includes requiring an individual interested in entering the sweepstakes send in a postcard with his or her name address or other contact information. Another AMOE method includes requiring an individual to sign on to a free Internet website and to submit the required information for free. Numerous other methods may be used for performing AMOE. Most sweepstakes limit the number of times one individual or family may enter a sweepstakes by AMOE.

According to one embodiment of the invention it is realized that an AMOE alternative method of entry may be used to enter a game of skill or chance. More particularly it is possible to develop implement and run wagering games of skill or chance including the inventive games described herein with an AMOE method of entry. AMOE methods are conventionally used to enter a player in a sweepstakes which is not considered wagering or gambling. Thus according to one embodiment of the invention an individual may enter the wagering game of skill or chance by AMOE using for example the postcard or the online method outlined above. The wagering game of skill or chance player entering by AMOE may also have the same odds to win the payout associated with the game in which they are entered.

The wagering game of skill or chance player entering by AMOE may also be limited to a small number of games within a given period of time. For example a player entering by AMOE may be limited to entering one game in one year or two games in one month. Other numbers of game sessions and given periods may be any number and the invention is not limited to any particular implementation.

According to one embodiment the game that the game player entering by AMOE is entered into may be determined by the game player on an AMOE entry form. For example the postcard AMOE may be required to state the date and the time of the game that the game player wants to enter. Alternatively the game entered may be the next starting game after the AMOE is received and logged. As another alternative AMOE entries may be assigned to a specific game s each hour day week or other time interval.

A gaming operator may collect revenue for operating the game by one or more methods. In one example the gaming operator collects and retains a portion of an entry fee from each player the portion being an amount over that which is retained by the gaming operator to pay out prizes. The entry fee may be for example a fee paid for a single game a fee for entry in a series of games e.g. a subscription or an entry fee associated with a tournament.

Further the gaming operator may generate revenue by accepting bets waged by a player or other person e.g. a person viewing the game on an outcome of the game. For instance a player may bet on whether another player will be the last person standing in the game whether the player will achieve a particular point total whether another player will be eliminated from the game e.g. killed within a particular time period or number of game sessions or other outcome. The gaming operator may calculate odds of a particular outcome and determine a payment on that basis. In another example the payout may also not be directly related to the odds for a particular outcome.

According to one embodiment a game includes predetermined prize levels associated with the game. In one specific example prize levels may be increased as a player progresses further in the game. For instance each game level may have a corresponding prize that increases as the game level is increased. Prize levels may also have adjustments for a player s subscription. For instance the prize levels may increase if the player purchased a multiple game subscription having a high payment per game. Prize levels may also be adjusted for numerous other criterion including but not limited to frequent player credits. Of course prize level may be adjusted to meet any legal requirements for the gaming jurisdiction in which the game is played.

The prize levels for each game may also be supplemented by a jackpot that transfers from game session to game session. These types of jackpots are commonly referred to as rolling or progressive jackpots. A rolling jackpot may be for example the same amount that transfers from game to game until the jackpot is paid out. A progressive jackpot is a rolling jackpot that increases as more games game cards or other criterion are played.

The final prize level may also be affected by bonus play which is well known in the gaming industry. Bonus play works to increase some payouts by offering the chance to multiply a payout.

One or more games may proceed concurrently. Parameters of concurrent games may be the same similar or different. Additionally games may run continually i.e. one after another. When one game ends another game may begin immediately or in a short period of time. Game sessions may follow a precise time schedule so that players know when game will begin. For example if game play in a game requires four and a half 4.5 minutes to complete then the next game may start immediately or after a delay e.g. thirty seconds to keep to a schedule of games every five minutes e.g. at 00 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 of each hour . It should be appreciated that any length or number of game sessions may be used and the invention is not limited to any particular length or number of game sessions. Because game sessions may run continually it may be possible that a particular game session will have no game player playing within the particular game session.

In one embodiment the computer system may display the game s or the identity of the game player s closest to winning to all game players during the game session. The computer system may also choose to display only one or a subset of all the game sessions or identities of players closest to winning to a particular game player playing or observing the game session.

In one embodiment the computer system may notify all game players playing the game session that a win has occurred. Additionally the computer system may display the winning game the winning player s identity the payout and or prize awarded to the winning player.

During the period of time between the games a game operator may make announcements rest or any number of actions. If the game is played using a computer system advertisements sponsorships public service announcements or any visual or auditory content may be inserted into these periods. Advertisements and any other content may also be inserted into the game display during a game session.

In one embodiment of the present invention game sessions and game play are partially or fully automated and monitored using one or more computer systems. A computer system may be a single computer that may be a single computer capable of executing one or more functions of a game. For instance the computer may be a supercomputer minicomputer mainframe or personal computer. A computer system used to run a game and its associated sessions may include a combination of one or more computer systems of one or more computer system types that cooperate to accomplish system level tasks. The computer system also may include input or output devices displays or storage units. It should be appreciated that any computer system or systems may be used to execute a game and the invention is not limited to any number type or configuration of computer systems.

A computer system e.g. system game according to various embodiments of the present invention may include for example one or more system components that perform specific functions as shown in . One system e.g. payment system may handle payment subscription and or AMOE by players to enter the game. Another system e.g. system may handle playing and viewing the game. Yet another system e.g. system may handle payouts to winning players. System may also be connected by direct line or network to other computer systems including systems for handling casino or hotel loyalty programs reservations in room television viewing or gambling floor kiosks. Connections to other computer systems may be performed using one or more of the system components described below.

A payment component e.g. payment system may include one or more of a number of well known systems as shown with more particularity in . For example a player may be able to pay to play one or more games by using a telephone and by speaking with a call center representative who inputs player payment and subscription information into a computer using a user interface. In the computer data may manually be stored in a data structure that is stored in a memory of the computer system. As used herein a data structure is an arrangement of data defined by computer readable signals. These signals may be read by a computer system stored on a medium associated with a computer system e.g. in a memory on a disk etc. and may be transmitted to one or more other computer systems over a communications medium such as for example a network. Also as used herein a user interface or UI is an interface between a human user and a computer that enables communication between a user and a computer. Types of UIs include a graphical user interface GUI a display screen a mouse a keyboard a keypad a track ball a microphone e.g. to be used in conjunction with a voice recognition system a speaker a touch screen a game controller e.g. a joystick etc and any combinations thereof.

Player information may also be entered into the system by a payment system component e.g. item . Player information that may be input may include the player s name address telephone number and age. Payment information associated with the player may include credit or debit card number or loyalty account information. Subscription information for games to which the player subscribes may include first game date and time number of games to play and bet per game. Based upon the payment and subscription information the call center representative may then verify that the payment information is valid and enough credit or funds is available for the player s desired subscription.

A similar system may be used for players entering using the mail or a postcard AMOE except the call center may be replaced by a mail center with representatives entering information into a computer via a user interface. For example a cashier that works at a casino directly with players that pay cash or credit to play may also have the ability to input player account and subscription information using a user interface of a computer system.

Computer systems or pay engines for handling electronic or online payment and subscriptions may also be used. Such systems are well known and include such systems as PayPal iKobo VeriSign and other systems. Using such a system a player interacts directly with a user interface to input information into a payment data structure that may be transferred to one or more payment systems e.g. PayPal .

Various pay systems and one or more user interfaces may be located on one or more computer systems coupled by a network with the computer system s containing the player account and subscription database s . As used herein a network or a communications network is a group of two or more devices interconnected by one or more segments of transmission media on which communications may be exchanged between the devices.

The above are merely an illustrative embodiment of a payment system component. It should be appreciated that such an illustrative embodiment is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as any of numerous other implementations of a payment system component for example variations of online payment are possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. For example the payment system component may include using pay per view systems associated with interactive television or the pay engine may additionally deliver a receipt to the player by either e mail or mail. None of the claims set forth below are intended to be limited to any particular implementation of the pay system unless such claim includes a limitation explicitly reciting a particular implementation.

According to another embodiment of the invention the system may include a payout system component such as that shown in . As shown system may include one or more components for submitting payment to a player. Any of a number of standard systems or payout engines for making payouts for winning may be used. For example a standard application programming interface such as Quicken Intuit Inc. Mountain View Calif. USA may be used to write and mail checks or credit a debit card credit card if legal in the jurisdiction of play or loyalty account. Quicken may obtain the payout information by accessing a payout data structure across a network. As used herein an application programming interface or API is a set of one or more computer readable instructions that provide access to one or more other sets of computer readable instructions that define functions so that such functions can be configured to be executed on a computer in conjunction with an application program.

 Quicken is merely an illustrative embodiment of a payout system that may be used to make payouts to players. Such an illustrative embodiment is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as any of numerous other implementations of the payout system for example variations of online payout are possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the invention.

Additionally a cashier may also have access to payout information using a user interface to the payout data structure through a network. The cashier then makes a payment to the winning player based upon the accessed information. None of the claims set forth below are intended to be limited to any particular implementation of the pay system unless such claim includes a limitation explicitly reciting a particular implementation.

A game playing and viewing system e.g. system may include one or more components for performing specific functions as shown in . Components may include for example storage components that store data structures that include information relating to storing game variations present game information game history and or win history. A game playing and viewing system e.g. system may also include components used to access payment and payout data structures.

A game playing and viewing system according to one embodiment may also include a game engine. A game engine may perform functions relating to conducting a game session of a role playing game. In one example a game engine may perform functions associated with a process for conducting a role playing game as shown in . A player may play one or more game sessions in an associated interface of a computer system with the computer presenting in the associated interface a role playing game to the player.

As shown in a process for conducting a role playing game may be performed. At block process begins. One or more systems that conduct the role playing game may permit a player to subscribe to one or more games at block . This may be performed for example by a game engine component as discussed above. The player for instance may be permitted to subscribe to one or more sessions of a role playing game. These sessions may be played at some point in the future e.g. in a casino on a computer etc. and may or may not be played within a legal gambling jurisdiction.

At block the computer system s conduct one or more game sessions. These sessions may be any type of role playing game as discussed above. They may according to one embodiment allow the user to carry over their progress e.g. achieved points to later game sessions.

As discussed above one or more of the game sessions may be a survival game wherein players eliminate other players e.g. at block . This elimination may be performed for example by allowing combat between the players. Players may be attributed some parameter e.g. health that when exhausted indicates that the player is eliminated from the game session. The parameter may be increased for example when the player achieves a particular status in the game e.g. collects a token that increases health . However in one example when a particular player s health is exhausted that player is eliminated from the game. The computer system may determine whether the player is eliminated.

At block the computer system s conducting the one or more game sessions may determine whether the game is over. If the game is indicated as being over one or more winners of the game may determined and one or more prizes awarded at block . If not the game continues and one or more players are eliminated from the game. As discussed above the game may be indicated as being over when there is a single player remaining e.g. the sole survivor of the game . Alternatively the game may be indicated as being over when a finite playing period has expired or a number of game sessions have been reached. Any method for determining the end of the game may be used and the invention is not limited to any particular method. At block process ends.

At block one or more computer systems conduct the game session. As more fully described below a player may play one or more sessions of the role playing game using an interface of a computer system e.g. a personal computer that is coupled to one or more computer systems controlled by a gaming operator. These computer systems may be coupled for example through a communication network such as the Internet.

The gaming operator controls functions either automatically or manually performed by the computer systems and is responsible for distributing payouts accepting subscription fees side wagers and other functions associated with conducting the role playing game. At block one or more players are entered into one or more game sessions conducted by one or more computer systems after which the player s may begin to play a game.

As an option the gaming operator may permit one or more players to try the game for a finite period e.g. an evaluation or trial period and this trial period may not necessarily require subscription fees wagers or other expense to be incurred by the player. Another option may involve attributing a novice status to a playing piece or representation of a player e.g. an avatar in the role playing game. This novice status may provide some player advantages in playing the game.

In one example the player is provided an immortal status that prohibits other players from eliminating the player from the game. Novice status may be awarded for example to novice players e.g. at block that require an introduction to the game. In one example an immortal status prohibits for example more expert players from eliminating novice players from the game.

The novice status of a player may be removed for example after the player plays the game for a period of time after a player achieves a particular point total or rating or other criteria. Further a player having a novice player status may have reduced functionality within the game. For example a novice player may not be eligible to win prizes may be awarded reduced points for eliminating other players or may have other restrictions placed on playing the game. Although a novice e.g. an immortal status may be attributed to a player it should be appreciated that other types of temporary statuses may be attributed to the player according to one embodiment of the invention. Such temporary statuses may afford the player any number of increased or decreased capabilities during play within a particular game session.

At block the player begins playing in at least one of the game sessions and at block the player eliminates one or more players from the game. The player accrues points e.g. at block by eliminating other players from the game. In one example points of the eliminated player s are distributed among the eliminating players if and when the player is eliminated from the game by the other players.

Elimination of a player may be performed by another player the role playing environment or other method. In one example players are permitted to collaborate on eliminations of other players and split the points attributed to those eliminated players. More particularly a game engine component of one or more computer systems conducting the game may determine whether players collaborated on a particular elimination of a player e.g. at block and if so the points associated with the eliminated player may be split among the eliminating players. The points may be split evenly or unevenly among the eliminating players as determined by the collaborating players or as determined by the computer gaming system. Collaboration to eliminate a player s may be declared by the collaborating players in advance or may be determined by the computer gaming system based upon the game play.

At block it is determined whether a player is eliminated from a game session or from the overall game . This may be accomplished as discussed above for example with reference to by associating some parameter with each player that when exhausted indicates that the player is eliminated from the game. If a player is eliminated his her associated points are awarded to the eliminating player s at block . At block the eliminated player is removed from the game. Removing the player from the game may involve for example removing a representation of the player from the game indicating to other players that the eliminated player has been removed and or other actions. For the eliminated player the game is ended. For games as part of a multi session game the eliminated player may be eliminated from playing in any remaining game sessions. Play continues for the surviving players.

At block it is determined whether the player is the last surviving player in the game. If so the surviving player may be awarded a prize e.g. at block . If not the player continues to eliminate other players at block . This prize may be for example in any one of the forms discussed above.

According to one aspect of the present invention it is realized that especially with wagering games it is difficult to keep a player playing the game. However according to one embodiment of the invention the prize may be a relatively large prize as compared to any intermediate prizes awarded to the player during the game. In this manner the player is encouraged to keep playing the game even though he she may have a lower point total than other players. Also there is a chance that other players having higher point totals may be eliminated and that the player may become the sole surviving player. The gaming operator may receive additional revenue for example from side bets placed by players allowing players to purchase additional ammo health weapons strength or any other item and other methods. Because the player is provided additional incentive to stay in and compete in the game player interest is maintained and additional revenue is generated as a result.

At block it is determined whether a predetermined length of the game is reached and if so a prize may be awarded to a player having accrued the most points or other measurement method for measuring the player s progress in the game. If not the player is permitted to continue to eliminate other players at block . At block process ends.

As discussed above there may some constraint placed on the game such as a limited time period number of sessions etc. that a particular game may be held. Such a constraint may be beneficial in the case when players are eliminated from a particular game with a large prize pool but are not encouraged from starting new games having lower prize pools. According to one embodiment a series of games may be offered by a gaming operator that begin at multiple times allowing a player to enter a game having multiple game sessions at various points to increase participation in the game.

If the player is determined to be a winner at block then the computer may proceed to notify the player that he or she is a winner. Further the computer may determine the payout and notify the winning player of the payout amount. The computer may also display the winning game and or player information to all the game players. Winning player information that may be displayed may include for example the winning player s name city state and country. If multiple winners occur simultaneously all winners or winning games may be displayed at one time or sequentially. It may also be possible that winners or winning games may be selectively displayed to game players. For instance if numerous winners occur at one time a player in Bismarck N. Dak. may be shown only the winning player information or game that occurred closest to him or her say in Pierre S. Dak. versus some other location e.g. Boston Mass. .

If it is determined that there are no winners the computer may determine whether the player is the closest to winning after the game is found not to have a winner. Any of a number of criteria may be used for determining the player closest to winning. For example the player having the highest point total or greatest strength may be closest to winning.

Although shown by way of example game play processes may include more or less acts. Further the order of the acts performed as part of processes are not limited to the order illustrated in as the acts may be performed in other orders and one or more of the acts of processes may be performed in series or in parallel to one or more other acts or parts thereof.

Processes are merely illustrative embodiments of the method of game play to be performed for example by a game engine. Such illustrative embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as any of numerous other implementations may be performed. For example variations of processes are possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. None of the claims set forth below are intended to be limited to any particular implementation of the method of game play for a game engine unless such claim includes a limitation explicitly reciting a particular implementation.

Processes acts thereof and various embodiments and variations of these methods and acts individually or in combination may be defined by computer readable signals tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium for example a non volatile recording medium an integrated circuit memory element or a combination thereof. Such signals may define instructions for example as part of one or more programs that as a result of being executed by a computer instruct the computer to perform one or more of the methods or acts described herein and or various embodiments variations and combinations thereof.

Such instructions may be written in any of a plurality of programming languages for example Java Visual Basic C C or C Fortran Pascal Eiffel Basic COBOL etc. or any of a variety of combinations thereof. The computer readable medium on which such instructions are stored may reside on one or more of the components of a general purpose computer described above and may be distributed across one or more of such components.

The computer readable medium may be transportable such that the instructions stored thereon can be loaded onto any computer system resource to implement the aspects of the present invention discussed herein. In addition it should be appreciated that the instructions stored on the computer readable medium described above are not limited to instructions embodied as part of an application program running on a host computer. Rather the instructions may be embodied as any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program a processor to implement the above discussed aspects of the present invention.

It should be appreciated that any single component or collection of multiple components of a computer system for example the computer system described below in relation to that perform the functions described above with respect to describe or reference the method can be generically considered as one or more controllers that control the above discussed functions. The one or more controllers can be implemented in numerous ways such as with dedicated hardware or using a processor that is programmed using microcode or software to perform the functions recited above.

Another component of the game playing and viewing system may be a driver that streams video via a broadband satellite or wireless medium to a user interface. If the game is played completely automatically the user interface may be merely a video terminal including television with no user input devices. Viewing access may be controlled by standard controls for conditional access including using set top box addresses telephone numbers or internet protocol IP addresses.

The above is merely an illustrative embodiment of a game playing and viewing system. Such an illustrative embodiment is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as any of numerous other implementations of a game playing and viewing system for example variations of conditional access are possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. None of the claims set forth below are intended to be limited to any particular implementation of a game playing and viewing system unless such claim includes a limitation explicitly reciting a particular implementation.

System and components thereof such as the payment payout and game engines may be implemented using software e.g. C C C Java or a combination thereof hardware e.g. one or more application specific integrated circuits firmware e.g. electrically programmed memory or any combination thereof. One or more of the components of may reside on a single system e.g. payment system or one or more components may reside on separate discrete systems. Further each component may be distributed across multiple systems and one or more of the systems may be interconnected.

Further on each of the one or more systems that include one or more components of each of the components may reside in one or more locations on the system. For example different portions of the components of may reside in different areas of memory e.g. RAM ROM disk etc. on the system. Each of such one or more systems may include among other components a plurality of known components such as one or more processors a memory system a disk storage system one or more network interfaces and one or more busses or other internal communication links interconnecting the various components.

System is merely an illustrative embodiment of the game system. Such an illustrative embodiment is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as any of numerous other implementations of the game system for example variations of are possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. For example a parallel system for viewing by interactive television may add additional video streamers specific for interactive television. None of the claims set forth below are intended to be limited to any particular implementation of the game system unless such claim includes a limitation explicitly reciting a particular implementation.

Various embodiments according to the invention may be implemented on one or more computer systems. These computer systems may be for example general purpose computers such as those based on Intel PENTIUM type processor Motorola PowerPC Sun UltraSPARC Hewlett Packard PA RISC processors or any other type of processor. It should be appreciated that one or more of any type computer system may be used to partially or fully automate play of the described game according to various embodiments of the invention. Further the software design system may be located on a single computer or may be distributed among a plurality of computers attached by a communications network.

A general purpose computer system according to one embodiment of the invention is configured to perform any of the described game functions including but not limited to player subscription or payment game play determining winners and paying winners. It should be appreciated that the system may perform other functions including network communication and the invention is not limited to having any particular function or set of functions.

For example various aspects of the invention may be implemented as specialized software executing in a general purpose computer system such as that shown in . The computer system may include a processor connected to one or more memory devices such as a disk drive memory or other device for storing data. Memory is typically used for storing programs and data during operation of the computer system . Components of computer system may be coupled by an interconnection mechanism which may include one or more busses e.g. between components that are integrated within a same machine and or a network e.g. between components that reside on separate discrete machines . The interconnection mechanism enables communications e.g. data instructions to be exchanged between system components of system . Computer system also includes one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse trackball microphone touch screen and one or more output devices for example a printing device display screen speaker. In addition computer system may contain one or more interfaces not shown that connect computer system to a communication network in addition or as an alternative to the interconnection mechanism .

The storage system shown in greater detail in typically includes a computer readable and writeable nonvolatile recording medium in which signals are stored that define a program to be executed by the processor or information stored on or in the medium to be processed by the program. The medium may for example be a disk or flash memory. Typically in operation the processor causes data to be read from the nonvolatile recording medium into another memory that allows for faster access to the information by the processor than does the medium . This memory is typically a volatile random access memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM or static memory SRAM . It may be located in storage system as shown or in memory system not shown. The processor generally manipulates the data within the integrated circuit memory and then copies the data to the medium after processing is completed. A variety of mechanisms are known for managing data movement between the medium and the integrated circuit memory element and the invention is not limited thereto. The invention is not limited to a particular memory system or storage system .

The computer system may include specially programmed special purpose hardware for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Aspects of the invention may be implemented in software hardware or firmware or any combination thereof. Further such methods acts systems system elements and components thereof may be implemented as part of the computer system described above or as an independent component.

Although computer system is shown by way of example as one type of computer system upon which various aspects of the invention may be practiced it should be appreciated that aspects of the invention are not limited to being implemented on the computer system as shown in . Various aspects of the invention may be practiced on one or more computers having a different architecture or components that that shown in .

Computer system may be a general purpose computer system that is programmable using a high level computer programming language. Computer system may be also implemented using specially programmed special purpose hardware. In computer system processor is typically a commercially available processor such as the well known Pentium class processor available from the Intel Corporation. Many other processors are available. Such a processor usually executes an operating system which may be for example the Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows ME or Windows XP operating systems available from the Microsoft Corporation MAC OS System X available from Apple Computer the Solaris Operating System available from Sun Microsystems or UNIX available from various sources. Many other operating systems may be used.

The processor and operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages are written. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to a particular computer system platform processor operating system or network. Also it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to a specific programming language or computer system. Further it should be appreciated that other appropriate programming languages and other appropriate computer systems could also be used.

One or more portions of the computer system may be distributed across one or more computer systems not shown coupled to a communications network. These computer systems also may be general purpose computer systems. For example various aspects of the invention may be distributed among one or more computer systems configured to provide a service e.g. servers to one or more client computers or to perform an overall task as part of a distributed system. For example various aspects of the invention may be performed on a client server system that includes components distributed among one or more server systems that perform various functions according to various embodiments of the invention. These components may be executable intermediate e.g. IL or interpreted e.g. Java code which communicate over a communication network e.g. the Internet using a communication protocol e.g. TCP IP .

It should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to executing on any particular system or group of systems. Also it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

Various embodiments of the present invention may be programmed using an object oriented programming language such as SmallTalk Java C Ada or C C Sharp . Other object oriented programming languages may also be used. Alternatively functional scripting and or logical programming languages may be used. Various aspects of the invention may be implemented in a non programmed environment e.g. documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program render aspects of a graphical user interface GUI or perform other functions . Various aspects of the invention may be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or any combination thereof.

Having now described some illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing is merely illustrative and not limiting having been presented by way of example only. Numerous modifications and other illustrative embodiments are within the scope of one of ordinary skill in the art and are contemplated as falling within the scope of the invention. In particular although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements it should be understood that those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives. Acts elements and features discussed only in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in other embodiments. Further for the one or more means plus function limitations recited in the following claims the means are not intended to be limited to the means disclosed herein for performing the recited function but are intended to cover in scope any means known now or later developed for performing the recited function.

As used herein whether in the written description or the claims the terms comprising including carrying having containing involving and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of respectively shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases as set forth with respect to claims in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Original Eighth Edition August 2001 Section 2111.03.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

