---

title: Method and system for automatic login initiated upon a single action with encryption
abstract: A method and system for secure automatic user login to a destination website in a single action, without the use of a file manager, cookies, or without storing user login information in a data folder having restricted access or that is external to the user PC. A user computer having a display, a mouse, and a browser is activated for establishing an Internet connection. The connection may be established from the user computer to the destination website with a single mouse click or a single touch on a displayed vendor icon or other symbol placed on a displayed graphic of the user PC display such as the desktop, task bar, or tool bar during a prior setup process. During the setup, an encrypted token is produced encrypting the user credential information. The encrypted token may be stored in the user data folder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700788&OS=08700788&RS=08700788
owner: SmartIcon Technologies, LLC
number: 08700788
owner_city: Fort Worth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
The present U.S. patent application is a Continuation In Part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 834 408 filed Aug. 6 2007 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATIC LOGIN INITIATED UPON A SINGLE ACTION which claims priority from earlier filed U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 838 825 filed Aug. 18 2006 and entitled ONE CLICK AUTOMATIC LOGIN. 

The present invention generally relates to computer applications and more particularly to connecting a user to a remote site on a network.

The prior art includes a number of methods and systems for reducing the number of user actions or keystrokes for accessing or logging in to a website. For example some prior art methods require at least two clicks of a mouse to enable a user to launch a browser first click to connect to the Internet followed by launching an application to login to a website using for example a password manager second click . This process just described provides a login that eliminates the need to enter the username and password each time that website is accessed. However this process has several disadvantages. First the user must gain access to the Internet then enter a command to the password manager requiring at least two clicks and some amount of time delay to complete the launch connection and login. Moreover the website being accessed requires further user actions to reach the page s of interest and typically additional time to enter information requested.

The so called password manager applications have a number of characteristics that impair the efficiency of a login process. For example as noted above the password manager application must be running in the background of an operating PC system in order for a login action from them is operative that is the application must be open and running before a connection to the Internet may be launched. Second a password manager is basically a secure storage system for all of the sensitive user ID and password information a typical computer user must use to gain access to desired websites and accounts many of which are used repetitively. The storage space for this vault is typically on the user PC s hard drive just as a cookie is stored for example or in a database which must be accessed for login to take place. Third the installation of a password manager having the foregoing characteristics must usually be accomplished by a system administrator to ensure compatibility with the system security protections SPAM filters and the like. Fourth the typical password manager application requires the use of substantial amounts of code because of the complexity of the operations performed including the encryption and decryption that must take place during its use. For these and other reasons it is difficult and impractical for a password manager to be configured for true single action or single click login from the user PC to a desired web page on a website that is used repetitively by a user without making basic and disabling modifications to the password manager application.

More generally in most known methods and systems login data is stored in a cookie on the user s computer system or is stored in a database external to the user s system such that the data must be accessed during the login process. These methods use time and resources of the user in a way that becomes inefficient when the login process must be performed frequently during a business day thus having a negative impact on business productivity. For example in businesses where courier services are used many times during a business day being able to enter repetitive orders for the delivery of articles to clients in minimum time and effort can provide substantial cost savings in terms of the accumulated computer and human labor time expenditures for processing orders. Further installing or setting up most systems also typically and often unnecessarily requires the services or authorization of a system administrator to ensure that these inefficient login processes do not disrupt other business communications being carried out in the user s computer system or network.

One example of a system that uses cookies is U.S. Pat. No. 5 960 411 issued to Hartman et al. which enables a user to send a request to order an item to a server by a single mouse click on an order button but after the user has logged onto the website of interest and after navigating the website to locate the item and the corresponding order button. Login information is stored in a cookie. In another example of the use of a cookie U.S. Pat. No. 6 819 340 issued to Burke a shortcut link provided by software downloading from a vendor website includes a graphic image such as a logo trademark or icon stored in a cookie. The graphic image may appear in a menu on the user s desktop and enables the user to access a web page of the vendor by selecting the graphic image.

One example of a system that requires an external database is U.S. Pat. No. 6 378 075 issued to Goldstein et al. which enables single action e.g. upon a single click of a mouse button business transactions by a user with any website in conjunction with a trusted agent server. The trusted agent server is an external database that stores user account information and program addressed by a URL. It is a system typically used by service providers such as banks credit card companies etc. In another example of the use of an external database U.S. Pat. No. 7 093 019 issued to Bertani et al. automated login to a provider is provided without the use of cookies but requires two servers one having a registration database the other associated with the destination website. During access by a single click on a mark the user information established during a prior initial login is authenticated during each login event by the registration server when the user enters the URL of the destination server.

The foregoing examples are representative of numerous conventional methods and systems. The prior art thus requires substantial user and or provider resources interaction and attention which is especially cumbersome and wasteful when the same website must be accessed frequently and much of the same information must be repetitively entered. In some businesses such operations may require up to a minute of time to complete a very simple order entry transaction for example. What is needed is a simpler faster method and system for repetitively logging in to a page of a provider that takes far less time to complete such routine tasks. It would be preferred if the system does not require the use of a password manager cookies or external databases does not require the intervention of a system administrator is easily installed and sharply reduces the time and labor of the login process thereby providing a substantial gain in business productivity.

In some client applications however it is necessary to provide for encrypting the login information particularly if it contains or is intended to contain confidential data or other personal information. Thus a need also exists for a method and system for login with a single action that not only avoids the use of cookies file managers external databases or the services or permission of an administrator but also provides for encrypting the login information.

Accordingly a method and apparatus are disclosed for automatic user login from the desktop of a user PC to a destination website or to a specific page of the destination website by executing a single user action such as a mouse click or a single touch upon a displayed icon or symbol of a service provider for example. In one embodiment the method comprises the steps of activating a user computer having a display a mouse and a browser for establishing an Internet connection and establishing the Internet connection from the user computer to the destination website with the single action on the icon which was placed on a displayed graphic of the user computer during a prior setup process. The method and system do not require a password manager do not use cookies or external databases nor do they require any configuration or process involving a system administrator during the setup of the method and system.

In a broad aspect the invention provides a method and system for connecting a user to a web page at a website via a network by a single initiating action upon a visible or audible symbol displayed or emitted by a user computing or telecommunication device.

In one aspect there is provided a method of installing a single action connection from a desktop of a user PC to a predetermined page on a website comprising the steps of placing a predetermined icon of the service provider on a displayed graphic of the user PC having a browser application during a setup process comprising the steps of running an executable application on the user PC downloaded from file on a principal web server via an affiliate web server to create a designated directory in a user document file of the user PC writing the predetermined icon from the affiliate web server to a folder in the user document file of the user PC and writing login data for the user to the system configuration registry of the user PC.

In another aspect there is provided a method for automatic login from the desktop of the user PC to a destination website on the Internet responsive to a single user action comprising the steps of performing a setup process comprising the steps of activating a user PC having a display a mouse or its functional equivalent such as a touch pad and a browser application for establishing an Internet connection downloading a file from a principal server on the Internet containing an executable application for single action login to a destination website associated with an affiliate server on the Internet running the executable application on the user PC to create a designated directory in a user document file of the user PC writing a predetermined icon associated with the destination website from the affiliate web server to a folder in the user document file of the user PC writing login data for the affiliate web server to the system configuration registry of the user PC and displaying the predetermined icon on the display of the user PC and thereafter performing a login process from the user PC to the destination website without the use of a cookie or a database external to the user PC comprising the steps of selecting the predetermined icon that is displayed on the user PC in a single action to launch the browser to the principal server loading the identification page at the principal server to collect the username password and the URL of the desired affiliate server executing the login to the affiliate server and displaying on the user PC the web page of the destination website from the affiliate server.

In another aspect there is provided a system for accessing an Internet website to complete entry of an order comprising a principal server coupled to the Internet for supplying an executable application and links for interconnecting at least one service provider and a plurality of customers an affiliate server coupled to the Internet and associated with the service provider a user PC associated with each customer and coupled to the Internet wherein each user PC includes a browser application and an executable application installed in the user PC during a set up process that provides the user PC with single action login from the desktop to a predetermined page on a website associated with the affiliate server without the use of cookies or a database external to the user PC for storing login data.

In another aspect there is provided a system for login to an Internet website from a desktop in a single action comprising a principal server coupled to the Internet for supplying an executable application and links for interconnecting at least one service provider and a plurality of customers an affiliate server coupled to the Internet and associated with the service provider a user PC associated with each customer and coupled to the Internet wherein each user PC includes a browser application and an executable application installed in the user PC during a set up process that provides the user PC with single action login to a predetermined page on a website associated with the affiliate server without the use of cookies or a database external to the user PC for storing login data wherein the executable application comprises a first instruction sequence for storing a predetermined icon of the service provider in a user document file of the user PC a second instruction sequence for storing login data in the system configuration registry of the user PC along with URL data for an affiliate server associated with the service provider a third instruction sequence for displaying the predetermined icon on a display segment of the user PC an assembler for building a URL string containing the login data for accessing the affiliate server upon selecting the displayed predetermined icon in a single action and a selection device on the user PC for launching the browser application from the user PC and completing the login to the affiliate server responsive to the single action selection.

In an embodiment that includes encryption a method is disclosed for secure automatic login to a destination website on the Internet comprising the steps of configuring a user PC the user PC including a browser for storing a predetermined icon graphic user credential information and a URL for the destination website in a user data folder in the user PC producing an encrypted token encrypting the user credential information and storing the encrypted token in the user data folder storing the predetermined icon graphic in the user data folder associating launching the browser with executing a single action on the user PC and thereafter executing the single action on the predetermined icon at the user PC to establish a secure connection to the destination website using the encrypted token. In another aspect the login is accomplished without the use of cookies or a file manager program or without storing user login information in a data folder having restricted access or that is external to the user PC.

In another embodiment that includes encryption a method is disclosed for installing a single action connection from a user PC to a destination website comprising the steps of placing a predetermined icon on a displayed graphic of the installing user PC having a browser application during a setup process comprising the steps of running an executable application on the user PC downloaded from a file on a principal web server via an affiliate web server to configure the user PC for the single action connection entering login credential data for the user and a URL for the destination website into a system configuration registry of the user PC encrypting the login credential data to produce an encrypted token designating a file in a user data folder of the user PC and writing the encrypted token and the predetermined icon for the destination website from the affiliate web server to a file in the user data folder. In another aspect of this method the step of encrypting comprises the steps of forming the encrypted token having data representing user login credentials application identification and installer version encrypted therein and returning the encrypted token to the installing user PC.

The following detailed description references the accompanying drawings to illustrate several embodiments of the present invention. The description includes details sufficient to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that the embodiments depicted and described herein are illustrative of the principles and concepts of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. Accordingly changes in the embodiments illustrated may be made without departing from the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

The following description discloses an invention for a method and a system that allows a business entity such as a vendor or service provider to have their logo in the form of an icon or symbol trademark or trade name placed on selected taskbars toolbars and desktop display screens of the PC or a plurality of PCs of a regular customer or user. The presence of the icon or other symbol enables the customer user in a single action at the user PC to select and directly access i.e. to login or alternatively log in or log in to a website or destination web page associated with the business entity when a pointer is placed over the image of the icon or symbol on the display or any equivalent operation e.g. by clicking a mouse pointer on the icon or symbol or by touching an image or a corresponding location on a display. The single action access of the present invention disclosed herein completes all of the necessary steps to access and display the destination web page with only the single action of selecting on the icon or symbol image on the user s computer display. In addition the single action access may include certain steps performed automatically at the website such as navigating to or opening a particular page on the website such as an order entry form. In the order entry example the order entry form may even be displayed with most of its fields already filled in for the particular user that accessed the page.

The icon image file and the user identification and password data may be provided in a prior setup process from an executable application called SmartLogin.exe originating with SmartIcon Technologies LLC SIT and downloaded from a vendor or service provider licensed by SIT. In this example the icon image file is stored in the user documents section of his or her PC and the user ID and password data is stored in the system configuration registry of the user s PC along with the URL of the vendor or service provider. Selection of the icon launches the browser and completes the connection over the Internet to the vendor website and may include opening a predetermined page of the website to complete entry of an order. As will be explained the process provided by the SmartLogin.exe application is not a password manager and does not utilize cookies or external databases to complete the connection over the Internet. Further the process of the present invention is unlike and lacks a number of features of applications known as password managers because a it does not use storage space on the user s hard drive or in a database somewhere to store an entire list of user ID and password information that must be encrypted and decrypted b it does not require more than one mouse click or equivalent single action to launch a browser connect to a desired website and gain access to a desired web page at that website and c it does not require the user to open an application in addition to the browser for the system to commence login.

Moreover installation of the present invention can be accomplished directly by the user without the intervention of a system administrator and without disruption of firewall or security systems in place on the network utilized by the user. Thus the method and system are very easy to install simple and reliable and after setup the customer user need not enter identification password or other registration information in order to access a frequently used website. Instead after selecting the icon followed by the display of the desired web page the customer user only needs to enter information that differs from a previous access to the same page. In this example login has been accomplished merely by selecting the vendor icon with a single mouse click or touch action on a touch pad or display image.

The method and system described herein greatly facilitates such user tasks as order entry for services or goods that are largely repetitive or other tasks where most of the required information is redundant and enables substantial savings in the time and cost required to complete the task. In one example which illustrates the advantages a PC user may be a business that requires frequent daily orders for immediate courier services provided by a particular vendor. The user clicks on the icon or performs an equivalent action on his or her PC followed by immediate display of an order entry form for the courier with all fields filled in except for the item description destination address and the times for pick up and delivery. Some user actions that are equivalent to clicking on a mouse as well known to persons skilled in the art include touching a touch pad with a finger or stylus at a position corresponding to a pointer indicating the icon touching a touch sensitive display screen over an image of the icon appearing on the screen and the like.

Numerous other examples particularly of applications for business to business services will occur to those skilled in the art. It will also be apparent to skilled persons that the present invention enables substantial savings in labor costs for a typical business user because tasks of this type are processed directly and very quickly. Further these cost savings are scaled upward and become very substantial for the vendor or service provider associated with the affiliate server. For example studies by the applicant in a same day courier service environment have shown that the typical labor cost to complete an order on line using conventional methods is on the order of 1.50 to 1.75 per order per individual user person at the time this is written. Use of the present invention enables this cost to be reduced to ten or twenty percent of this or less. Similarly the cost savings to the service provider particularly when operated 24 7 because of the large number of orders received and serviced each day are also reduced to a small fraction. Cutting the costs of these operations is possible because the system and method of the present invention automates the login process to such a degree that fewer persons are required to process such orders. This gain in efficiency is a strong incentive for service providers and their customers to use on line transactions instead of phone calls and to use the SmartIcon method and system instead of conventional on line methods.

Further the speed with which the login occurs with a single click on a vendor name logo or icon already being displayed on the desktop without having to open any other applications results in a vast reduction in the time necessary to complete the login process. Business users will readily appreciate the potential labor cost savings from the use of the present invention. Moreover the significance of such savings in labor costs is manifest over time in a faster growing business and much faster customer service. Another significant advantage of the present invention is that business users and especially service providers and vendors will also readily appreciate the enormous marketing and advertising value of having their vendor name logo or icon displayed at all times on the desktop of the business user of their products and services and thus immediately available for single click access to the vendor s website to place an order etc.

The icon itself may be a pictorial or graphic figure a logo a trademark or any visible or audible symbol or mark that represents or is associated with a business entity a product or service or even an individual. Moreover as human computer interface devices evolve it is contemplated that a single operation performed upon an icon or button or other symbol may be replaced by an equivalent operation upon a different kind of interface device to enable the one click single action type of login feature provided by the present invention.

The method and system of the present invention was developed through substantial trial and error experimentation directed toward finding a one click or single action type solution to the problem of providing direct access to a website for e.g. placing an on line order for the numerous repetitive orders that typically occur during a business day of certain kinds of service provider businesses. As noted herein above there are a number of methods and systems available for direct access but they all have deficiencies as discussed above. In addition a number of solutions were attempted that could accomplish the desired result but that required the development of so called hard coded applications for installation in the system required the use of databases or other significant data storage mechanisms or that involved the use of complex software operations for encryption or to provide numerous ancillary features not essential to the single action login solution. Besides the cost of developing and testing such applications there was a further drawback in that the application had to be individually tailored for each business user i.e. each of a potentially very large number of service providers that could benefit from the use of the one click login concept for efficiently performing the very simple task of entering the same type of order for a service repetitively ordered many times during a business day. Such individual tailoring would be prohibitively expensive for most businesses. Further one particular problem to overcome during development was the difficulty of providing the needed direct access without it being blocked by various firewalls antivirus devices etc. In the context of the present need efficient business communication between business entities with an established relationship such devices may be considered superfluous because of the reduced risk of virus infection and the substantial impairment of business efficiency that accompany their use.

Thus a way was sought to provide the kind of application that could be used by every potential service provider without modification was also easy to install used minimal resources on the user PC or in the server systems of the vendors was transparent to the various firewall and anti virus devices and which provided the single action initiation of the method. Consideration of these factors led to the concept of the present invention based on the executable application called SmartLogin.exe to be described herein below which satisfied all of these requirements. Most importantly the invention provided the very simple and efficient access to enable completing an order entry in a minimum time.

In the detailed description that follows several generic terms are used in place of names or other descriptors of locations of entities participating in the operation of the method and system of the present invention. There are three basic entities involved all of which are coupled to a global communications network GCN or network such as the Internet. While the term Internet is currently in common use as a generic name for a GCN a world wide network of computers and telecommunication devices it is intended to refer to any such network that may in the future fulfill the same functions and capabilities relied upon today. Thus although the term Internet may be the present world wide web and the nodes thereon referred to as websites and the like other networks and nodes thereon as may exist presently or be developed in the future are susceptible to employing the same principles of the invention disclosed herein.

The first entity is SmartIcon Technologies LLC the originator of the method and system of the present invention. An essential component of the method and system is the aforementioned executable application identified as smartlogin.exe a software product developed by SmartIcon Technologies LLC. This software product necessary for implementing the method and system is made available under license to business entities such as service providers operating in a particular industry or market segment. Thus the originator entity will generally be referred to as the principal. The principal will be manifest as a website presence on the GCN in association with a principal server. 

A second entity is the service provider similarly manifest as a website presence on the GCN as an affiliate in association with an affiliate server coupled to the GCN. The typical service provider may also be called a vendor or target company. The affiliate which may typically operate the method and system under license from the principal may provide various kinds of repetitively ordered services needed by businesses such as same day courier service including one or two hour delivery express and overnight delivery document copying or handling services office supplies etc. Other applications such as business to consumer b to c include food service airline tickets video on demand premium content and the like. The foregoing are just a few of the many possible types of business or other entities such as service providers that may benefit from the use of the SmartLogin method and system described herein. The service provider is thus a destination entity for the third entity a user or customer of the services of the service provider which will be designated herein as the user PC. Communication with the website of the service provider is with the associated affiliate server coupled to the GCN. Similarly the user or customer is manifest on the GCN as the user PC. The customer typically a business entity may be coupled to the GCN through a single PC browser or through multiple user PC browser systems. It is contemplated that each user PC typically operates under a limited use sub license extended by the service provider. Hereinafter the terms customer user customer and user will be used interchangeably.

In the method and system of the present invention software was created to operate in two areas. The SmartLogin method utilizes small simple programs written in such script languages as PHP Java HTML or Perl which are preferably installed on the principal server at SmartIcon Technologies LLC. This software interacts with the affiliate server and the user PC when an application software known herein as the Smartlogin.exe executable application is installed on the user PC and operated by the person at the user PC. In an alternate embodiment the principal server function and the necessary software could reside at the affiliate server. The Smartlogin.exe may be created using an open source installer for Windows such as Inno Setup a DELPHI based tool or its equivalent. The Inno Setup is available online at www.jrsoftware.org. A variety of such installer tools are available for use with various operating systems as is well known to persons skilled in the art.

Important advantages of the method and system of the present invention thus include a the user is not required to be the administrator of the PC upon which the executable application is installed b the method and system does not use cookies or external databases to accomplish the login c once installed using a simple setup process the user can quickly access an often used website with a single control operation such as a mouse click and d a significant productivity improvement to both the user and the service provider is realized. The importance of these is that the security features of a business customer s computer network or system do not need to be disabled or are not impaired in any way. The user can install the system herself or himself without assistance. The software is very simple and does not require or occupy large amounts of system memory. Another feature of the invention that results from the use of an executable application running at the user PC to control the login is that as the method is designed to store the login data in the system configuration registry of the user PC cross domain browsing is readily enabled. This permits the interactions between web servers that is necessary for the system to operate with transparency over the Internet.

In summary the advantages of the present method and system i.e. of placing a functional icon containing or representing the company brand name or logo on the user desktop toolbar or taskbar ready for instant use to access a service provider with a single action by the user provides at least three important benefits a an effective desktop marketing and advertising tool b an effective productivity improvement tool that minimizes labor costs for both the customer and the vendor in an on line business to business or business to consumer transaction and c an enhancement to the ease with which a customer can access web pages of a preferred or often used service provider.

Briefly the method and system operate as follows. The PC user must have a valid username and password to the desired website which is entered by the user into the required fields of this application during a setup routine. The smartlogin.exe application then stores the logo corresponding to the desired destination website in the form of an icon in a folder. The folder is located in a user documents file of his or her PC for example the user s My Documents section of a PC that embodies a Windows operating system. During the setup process the logo image is placed in selected portions of the display of the user PC such as a taskbar a toolbar and the desktop. These locations are selected to ensure that the icon is visible and single action access to the desired website represented by the icon is available at all times the user PC is in use. The .exe application also writes the particular user settings to a system configuration registry of his or her PC again for example the Windows registry keys under current user settings in a Windows operating system. This allows for multiple users to share a PC wherein the file for each user s settings includes the correct user information for automatically logging onto the desired website from the particular user PC.

Once the icon has been placed on the user s desktop task bar and or toolbars a single click on this icon will launch the web browser and connect the user through the Internet to the desired website. When the icon is placed on the desktop display in some computer operating systems a preliminary mouse click to highlight and select the icon may be followed by the single mouse click to launch the login process. Icons placed in a task bar or tool bar need only be selected once to accomplish the login associated with the icon. Through the use of simple programs running on the website written for example in JavaScript and HTML the website correctly performs the login for the user to the website. Similarly these programs can provide email notifications to the service provider associated with the affiliate server of the installation or removal of the method and system of the present invention. This notification thus provides a built in reporting feature via the link to the service provider of the history of each access to the service provider i.e. the vendor providing the method and system to its customers . This reporting is available whether the report is for an initial installation or for its continued use. In some cases the initial installation may be made as a trial use to satisfy the inquiry of a potential user. The information reported may include the user IP address the date time and number of hits etc.

In an alternate embodiment when the system is in use a service alert feature may be included in the display at the user PC. The alert may appear in a crawling or scrolling text message on the user PC to provide timely weather or delivery affecting information to the user for example. The message may be entered by the service provider through a control panel link to a web page on the SmartIcon principal server or to a directory at either the principal or the affiliate server.

While the embodiment of the system and method to be described is implemented in a GCN or Internet environment and directed toward repetitive orders for a specific type of service persons of skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is also readily adaptable to other network environments having a less global scope such as an intranet network in a corporate system wherein a hierarchy of entities is organized on the network to facilitate business operations. Each entity of what ever class but will usually be an affiliate may be represented by an addressable station or terminal or node on the network and include at least one site page or node page a unit of information content such as an order entry form a menu of choices an audio or video program an article of textual or other printed content etc.

Referring to there is illustrated a system block diagram for performing the method according to the present invention. This block diagram is labeled for describing the setup method detailed in . The system includes a principal server an affiliate server and a user PC representing the three entities in the system that are coupled to and communicate via the Internet one example of a global communications network GCN . Associated with the principal server is its website . This association is indicated by the double line between them. Associated with the affiliate server is its website . This association is also indicated by the double line between them. Communication between the websites is indicated by the arrows C and S to be described. The arrows in and in that are labeled with capital letters indicate communication links that are utilized during the methods to be described. The user PC includes a display a keyboard and a mouse coupled thereto. A CD memory drive installed in the user PC is provided to receive a CD ROM . In the illustrative description which follows the user PC includes the peripheral devices connected to it as described.

Continuing with the coupling of each of the three entities with the Internet is indicated by several lettered lines having arrowheads attached. Thus the user PC is attached and communicates via the lines A E Q and U. Similarly the affiliate server is attached and communicates via the lines B and T and the principal server is attached and communicates via the lines D and R. The letters are assigned in the sequence in which the communication steps occur corresponding to the steps of the setup method described in the flow chart of . Thus the setup steps occur in the sequence A B C D and E and in the sequence Q R S T and U as will be described.

Referring to there is illustrated a flow chart of the setup process performed by the embodiment illustrated in . The setup process involves running an executable application on the user PC that is obtained from an affiliate entity. The affiliate entity is a service provider that is licensed to provide the single action or one click login method provided by SmartIcon Technologies LLC the principal entity. The setup process may begin from a Start block wherein the user PC may be displaying a desktop screen with a task bar at the bottom edge or perhaps an open window screen with a toolbar near the upper part of the screen . Typically the user PC will launch its browser such as Internet Explorer 6.0 or its equivalent to access the webpage of the affiliate server whereupon the affiliate server will forward the connection of the user PC to the webpage of the principal server to obtain the executable application. In the system block diagram shown in the executable application may be represented by the CD ROM . Upon copying the downloaded executable application smartlogin.exe from the principal server to the user PC or inserting and loading the executable application from the CD ROM obtained from the principal entity a window as illustrated in designated as screen appears on the display of the user PC .

Referring to there are illustrated a sequence of display screen panels i.e. screens appearing at the user PC during the setup process of . Each screen in the sequence of the will bear a separate reference number. Screen in illustrates a first screen that enables the user PC to prepare to load the executable application. The executable application is denoted by its name smartlogin.exe on the screen . The type of file is shown as Application 289 KB and the source of the file is shown as www.affiliateserver.com . Below these entries on the screen are several control buttons by which the user PC may select whether to Run or Save the file identified by the reference number . Upon selection of one of the buttons the next screen illustrated in provides an opportunity to run the setup application by selecting or clicking on the Run button . Alternatively the user PC may abandon the setup from the user PC by selecting or clicking on the Don t Run button . Selecting the Run button is followed by display of the screen illustrated in .

In there is illustrated a welcome screen provided to identify the affiliate entity represented by the affiliate server and the corresponding webpage and the SmartLogin setup wizard . From this screen the user PC may follow an instruction to initiate the installation of the SmartLogin order entry icons of the affiliate server on the user PC itself by clicking on the Next button . Alternatively the user PC may cancel the setup process by clicking on the Cancel button shown to the right of the Next button in the screen .

When the Next button is selected the next screen to appear is the screen illustrated in for entering registration information such as the LoginName and the Password . Entry of this information at the keyboard is followed for example by using the mouse to select the Next button in the screen if the user PC decides to proceed. Buttons are also provided on screen to select Back or to Cancel . Selecting the Next button on screen results in the display of a user license not shown as the text is not pertinent to the invention disclosed herein a standard feature of software applications. As contemplated by the applicant the user license may be a limited use license granted for the limited purpose of the single action login to a designated website. The user may accept the terms and conditions of the license and proceed to complete the setup process by selecting a button labeled I Accept. Alternatively if the user elects to not accept this decision is indicated by selecting a button labeled I Do Not Accept and the setup process is discontinued. Upon acceptance the setup flow proceeds to . In screen illustrated in the user PC is informed in the message on the screen that the SmartLogin setup wizard has finished the installation of the smartlogin.exe application and the SmartLogin icons on the user PC . A Finish button is provided for the user PC to complete the setup acknowledge the installation of the SmartLogin application and icon and exit the setup process by selecting the Finish button as instructed at the exit message . Thereafter a Setup Complete window screen appears on the user PC as illustrated in .

Returning to the flow chart for the process represented by the screens of will be described including the essential operations being carried out at each step shown in . It should be noticed that the lower two lines of text in each of the boxes representing the steps of the method contain keys to other drawings herein. One line identifies the relevant screen illustration s that appears in one of the by its reference number or . The bottom line refers to a communication path among the three entities in the network of the system shown in by its identifier the letters A B C D E or P Q R S T or U.

Thus in step the operations carried out are illustrated in screens and through communications occurring over paths or links A B C D E and P. From a user PC which in this illustrative example should be a Windows PC with Internet Explorer 6.0 or later browser the browser is launched and a connection established via links A and B to a designated web server. In this example the designated web server is the affiliate server through which the user PC may obtain the smartlogin.exe application i.e. the executable which may also be referred to herein as the .exe either downloaded over the network or via a separately shipped CD ROM or other portable storage device from the source. The source is the principal in this case SmartIcon Technologies LLC represented by the principal server and its website and accessed via the link C in . If the smartlogin.exe is to be downloaded to the user PC that will occur via the links D and E in . Alternatively the smartlogin.exe may be separately shipped to the user PC via the link P shown as a dashed line in . The user PC upon receipt of the executable may select and run the executable double click the executable or save it for later use.

In selection of step Create Directory on PC in User Docs the smartlogin.exe begins to run and creates a designated directory in the user documents file of the operating system for the user PC . In a Windows XP environment this is called the My Documents section of the user PC . In the more recent Windows Vista environment this section would be called simply Documents. This location allows for any Windows based PC to install icons on the user PC without having to use or be the system PC Administrator. Please refer also to screen and the links A or P of .

In selection of step Enter Username and password associated with screen and the links A or P of the username and password information which may be supplied by the service provider associated with the affiliate server or by the person operating the user PC is entered by the person installing the .exe.

Proceeding to the next step associated with screen and the links A or P several operations are performed to install the necessary files in the user PC to complete the setup process. One operation is to create registry keys and domain names to be written by the .exe into the system configuration registry which is known as the Windows Registry in a Windows environment. Included is the URL of the destination website at the affiliate web server and optionally the URL of SmartIcon Technologies website that may be written into the system configuration registry along with the privacy sites and or trusted sites settings of the browser. Second operations are performed to create and label the icons to be installed on the desktop taskbar and toolbar displays and write them into a file in the user documents section of the user PC such as the My Documents file of a Windows PC.

Placements of the icons on the display of the user PC are selected so that an icon is visible and accessible at all normal times the user PC is in use to permit an immediate single action connection from the user PC to the affiliate website . Thus in the illustrative example described herein the locations selected are the desktop the taskbar and a toolbar of typically the most often used application the web browser on the user PC. The desktop display is an obvious choice because nearly all computing devices have some sort of a desktop or home page display. Similarly the taskbar at the bottom of the screen is a logical choice because it can accommodate selection buttons for the current tasks the user PC is undertaking. One example which may be utilized in the present invention is to insert the icon in the Quick Launch location or the system tray available on the taskbar. Further because most user PCs are often in an application that includes email communication the toolbar of such application e.g. Outlook in a Windows equipped PC is a logical choice for the display of an icon for use with the present invention. Persons skilled in the art will readily understand that other choices of location for the icons could be made. Completion of step is followed automatically by step to Launch Web Browser. This step is associated with screen and the links E and Q R S T and U of .

In step several operations are carried out to complete the setup process of the present method and system and launch the web browser to initiate login to the service provider at the affiliate server . First the web browser at the user PC is linked to the installed web page installed. HTML on the principal server where the web page collects the username the password and the system user name from the address bar all of which are embedded in the URL transmitted by the browser at the user PC . Second the IP address the date and time are also collected by routines e.g. written in JavaScript or PHP etc. running on the principal server and then forwarded to the affiliate server associated with the service provider to complete the setup. Third an email is generated to the service provider affiliate to communicate that the installation of the .exe and the setup are complete. At the end of this step the login process begins automatically as will be described in detail below in conjunction with through E. The setup process only needs to be completed one time for each user PC. In an alternative environment to the set up process just described re the user is presented with a test page for a license agreement not shown as such a step is well known to the industry and will not be further illustrated containing terms and conditions of use and the opportunity to not accept the terms and conditions or to accept and complete the set up process and initiate the login to the service provider.

Referring to there is illustrated a system block diagram for providing a single action login method according to the present invention. It will be noted that this is essentially the same system as illustrated in except that it is labeled to reflect the links required for the steps of the login process detailed in . While the format of through E to be described herein below is similar to that of through F the illustrated process for login is different from the setup process. illustrates the steps of the method and illustrate the screens through that accompany the login process.

Returning to these links V W X Y and Z become active in sequence when the user PC begins the process of a single action or one click login according to the present invention by selecting or clicking or touching upon an icon displayed on the desktop or on a toolbar or taskbar of the user PC . Briefly selecting the icon launches a web browser at the user PC via link V and completes a connection to the principal server via the link W. The principal server determines the URL of the affiliate server and forwards the request thereto to login followed by establishing a connection to the affiliate server via the link X. Thereafter communication between the user PC and the affiliate website at is facilitated via the links Y and Z.

Referring to there is illustrated a flow chart of the single click login process performed by the embodiment of . After completing the setup process the login process begins with selecting an icon that appears on the display of the user PC . As described herein above the icon may be placed in one or any of several regions of the displayed screens. At step from screen segment illustrated in a click on the icon placed on a Quick Launch taskbar as provided in a system having a Windows operating system as in the present example will initiate the login process by launching the browser. Experienced users will observe that illustrates a segment of a PC desktop display thus enabling a single click selection of an icon from the desktop. The icon in is shown as the symbols X Y enclosed within a box outline. This representation of an icon will be used in the following description. The symbols X Y could represent the initials of a service provider s name or any iconic figure or logo etc. that is associated with the affiliate service provider.

Continuing with step is followed by step to connect the user PC to the principal server via the link V shown in . Alternatively at step from screen illustrated in a selection or click on the icon placed on a toolbar in a window of an open application as may be provided in a system having a Windows operating system as in the present example will initiate the login process by launching the browser. Step is also followed by step connecting the user PC to the principal server via the link V shown in . Alternatively at step from screen illustrated in a selection or click on the icon placed on the desktop display itself as may be provided in a system having a Windows operating system as in the present example will initiate the login process by launching the browser. Step is followed by step connecting the user PC to the principal server via the link V shown in .

In the connection to the principal server in step is followed by step . As mentioned in a preceding paragraph the principal server determines the URL of the affiliate server and forwards the request to login to the affiliate server followed by establishing a connection to the affiliate server via the link X. Thereafter communication between the user PC and the affiliate website at the server is facilitated via the links Y and Z. In step the web browser loads the identification page located at the principal server to collect the username the password and the target URL i.e. the URL of the website of the affiliate server . Optionally the screen width data of the display at the user PC may also be transmitted. The communication accomplished in step occurs via the link W.

In the simplest of systems the flow could proceed from step directly to the step whereupon the login of the user PC to the affiliate server and its associated website takes place accompanied by the display of the web page such as an order entry form of the affiliate service provider and ending at step . However as illustrated in the flow chart of some additional steps are provided between the steps and to enhance the utility of the method and system to the user PC and to the service provider. Following the step is a decision step which tests whether the screen width of the display of the user PC is 800 pixels Since most user PCs are equipped with displays having a standard horizontal screen resolution greater than 800 pixels those displays will have no difficulty displaying the entire destination web page. However use of displays having 800 pixels will find it necessary in many cases to scroll left and right to view the entire content of the destination web page. Therefore the test step is provided to enable the destination web page converted to the 800 pixel format to eliminate the need for the back and forth scrolling. If the query in step is affirmative the flow proceeds to the step to load the alternate web page having a screen width of 800 pixels from the requested directory at the affiliate server onto the displayed page at the user PC . The action in step may be provided with an HTML or JavaScript file residing on the affiliate server .

Step is followed by a step also controlled by a JavaScript file where the system compares the time of the user PC request with the business hour schedule of the service provider associated with the affiliate server . In the next step at step if the user request to login is outside designated business hours the login process is stopped while the system checks whether the request is made outside business hours. If so the flow proceeds to step . Step is another test step to determine whether to advance to another web page If not the flow proceeds in step to a web page illustrated at screen via the link X which provides alternate contact information to the user PC . If however the service provider has not provided contact information or an alternate web page destination then the flow continues per the original URL to login to the affiliate server and the web page as in screen associated with website in step . Upon login to the affiliate website the process ends at step .

Returning to step which tested whether the horizontal resolution screen width of the user PC display is 800 pixels the flow advances to step if the determination is negative. Subsequently in step the destination web page is loaded from the requested directory onto the user PC . In the following step the system compares the time of the user PC request with the business hour schedule of the service provider associated with the affiliate server just as in the step described in the preceding paragraph which then leads to step as explained and the remaining steps of the login process illustrated in .

Referring to there are illustrated a sequence of display screen panels appearing during the single action or single click login process of . B and C are respectively illustrations of the display of the user PC for a task bar such as a Quick Launch task bar at the bottom or other edge of the desktop in a Windows environment a toolbar in a window of an open application and a desktop of a user PC operating in a Windows environment. In the B and C the icons are denoted by the reference numbers and respectively. In each case the setup process previously described installed an icon on the respective portion of the display of the user PC to be utilized in a single action or a one click login process to a predetermined web page of the website of a service provider associated with an affiliate server as shown in . The screen panels of B and C respectively represent three possible login thresholds in a typical user s PC environment. In use the user merely needs to place the pointer of a mouse or equivalent device over the image of the icon or on the display and touch or click on the selected location to launch the login process. Whichever location is selected results in the same action represented by the step to connect to the principal server See to enable login to the service provider at the affiliate server .

The enabling elements of the present invention are mostly embodied in the Smartlogin.exe executable application designed for implementing the steps of the one click login process in conjunction with several simple scripts running on the principal server . The .exe application is short and simple because lengthy code is not required to provide the efficient processes of the present invention. The .exe application basically accomplishes three simple functions that facilitate the method in a system of three entities coupled to a GCN such as the Internet or other network of similar entities. The three functions are a to launch a browser over the network b to provide the necessary communication links via the network among the three entities and c to provide the log in information from the user PC or telecommunications device to the affiliate server via the principal server.

While the invention has been shown in only one of its forms it is not thus limited but is susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the spirit thereof. For example while the embodiment of the system and method described herein above is implemented in a GCN or Internet environment and directed toward repetitive orders for a specific type of service persons of skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is also readily adaptable to other network environments having a less global scope such as an intranet network in a corporate system wherein a hierarchy of entities may be organized on the network to facilitate business operations.

In another example while the embodiment of the system and method described herein above is implemented using a personal computer running a Windows operating system or on any equivalent personal or business computer running a suitable operating system persons of skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is also readily adaptable to other kinds of computing or telecommunication devices that employ operating systems and application programs that enable the user PC or equivalent device to connect to i.e. launch a connection upon a network of computing and or telecommunication devices that can fulfill the functionality of the principal and affiliate servers. Thus any such device having the capability of the computing device apparatus and methods to function as described herein may practice the present invention. The term user PC as contemplated herein encompasses all of these possibilities.

Further While the embodiment of the present invention described herein illustrates the single action to initiate the login process as a one click operation of a mouse or other like peripheral connected to a user PC the invention is susceptible of equivalent implementation by employing a touch sensitive display screen that both displays the icon of the service provider and enables the selection of the single action login by responding to the touch of a person s finger or of a stylus to the portion of the display exhibiting the image of the icon. Moreover the touch sensitive screen may be a portion of a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant or any other computing and or telecommunication device that is so equipped. The computing or telecommunication device may be located in an office carried with a person embodied in a small wearable or portable configuration mounted in a vehicle or aircraft etc. The touch sensitive portion of the device may be configured to be other than a portion of the display and may even be a dedicated button actuator or switch or other pressure sensitive part of the user PC. One example of an actuator is the so called track wheel used on handheld devices wherein the track wheel may be rotated to highlight an icon and pressed to select or open an item or a menu represented by the icon. The term user PC as contemplated herein encompasses all of these possibilities.

In other embodiments the icon may be a visual symbol image or artifact textual or graphic or it may be an audible symbol sound or signal spoken or musical or non musical emitted by an annunciator device in or connected to the user PC. The term icon as contemplated herein encompasses all of these possibilities.

Further numerous other examples of applications for business to business and business to consumer services will occur to those skilled in the art particularly those that rely on repetitively ordered products or services via the Internet or other network. Variations in the icon itself may be appropriate such as a pictorial or graphic figure a logo a trademark or any symbol or mark that represents or is associated with a business entity or product or even an individual. Moreover as human computer interface devices evolve a single operation exercised upon an icon or button or other symbol may be replaced by an equivalent operation upon a different kind of interface device to enable the single action or one click login feature provided by the present invention.

Thus an affiliate entity as defined herein which may operate the method and system under license from the principal may provide various kinds of repetitively ordered services needed by businesses such as same day courier service including one or two hour delivery express and overnight delivery document copying or handling services office supplies etc. Other applications such as business to consumer b to c include food service airline tickets video on demand premium content and the like. Products such as fast foods frequently ordered can be conveniently ordered using the present invention. Such uses of the invention for ordering specified products or entertainment or premium content etc. may be facilitated from a displayed graphic on a destination web page representing a menu of choices for example. The present invention thus facilitates the productivity of a destination entity a vendor or service provider in responding to the needs of its customer and its services or products.

Although it has been stated that security of login data is nota principle for a substantial number of potential users of the single action login system and method disclosed herein there is an important class of potential users that require provision for the security of user data in online transactions. Security of data is often necessary in business transactions particularly where credit card account data or other sensitive or personal identification information is transmitted through a network. One example of a protocol for securing data transmissions is the well known Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard or PCI standard. The PCI standard is recognized and often required by many businesses conducting transactions in the on line environment. Thus it would be advantageous if the single action log in system and method disclosed herein included an embodiment incorporating encryption of log in information. Importantly the alternate system and method would preserve the advantages of avoiding the use of cookies file managers external databases or the services or permission of IT administrators to install the system and method.

Accordingly recognizing that this need exists for a system and method for automatic login with a single action that also provides for encrypting the login information an alternate embodiment of the method is disclosed including encryption of the login information during installation of the system. In a preferred embodiment the system incorporates additional steps into the method performed at the user PC to install or set up the system. Following entry by the installer usually the user of the user s login credentials e.g. application identification number version number username password etc. this data may be encrypted at the user PC using an elementary or first level encryption algorithm. One example is a symmetric encryption algorithm such as the well known XOR an algorithm that uses the XOR operator a single bit stream to encrypt and decrypt the designated information using the same key. The XOR encrypted information is then sent to the affiliate server to prepare an encrypted token that will be used during the actual login in response to the single action performed by the user to initiate the login. The encrypted token may be encrypted using a more robust second level algorithm. One example of a more robust algorithm is a symmetric algorithm that employs a variable length key such as the Blowfish algorithm which employs a block cipher. The encrypted token may be thought of as a data packet containing the encrypted data that will be decrypted at the destination the affiliate server to open the packet and complete the login process when the user executes the single action on the user PC. The link to the affiliate server to perform the encryption during the set up process is provided so that the encryption key is hidden on the server and not in the installer PC. Though not required in some user installations this link may be provided to take advantage of greater processing power that may be present at the affiliate server to perform the complex operations involved in processing the relatively large block cipher that may be used with the Blowfish algorithm. This process returns the encrypted token to the user PC for use during the single action login.

Referring to there is illustrated a first portion of a flow chart of one alternate embodiment of a method for a single action login that includes encryption of the login information. is the first of a series of figures used herein to describe the method in detail. In brief the method may be summarized as follows. Following entry by the installing user of the user s login credentials i.e. an application ID number a version number the username and password data etc. similar to step in described herein this data may be encrypted at the user PC using a symmetric encryption algorithm such as XOR that uses the XOR operator during the encryption and decryption. The encrypted login information is sent to an affiliate server to prepare an encrypted token a data packet containing the login information using a keyed symmetric encryption algorithm such as the well known Blowfish algorithm. The encryption using the Blowfish algorithm may be performed at the affiliate server. However it is typically well within the capability of the current desktop computers to perform the second higher level encryption of the token. The principle reason to perform the encryption at the server is so that the key is stored there instead of at the user PC. Following production of an encrypted token containing the login information the encrypted token is transmitted to the user PC and filed in the user data folder e.g. a user document folder of the user PC for later access during the single action login.

The encryption process proceeds in two phases. The login credentials are first encrypted in the user PC using a first level algorithm. After encoding the encrypted credentials in a URL string the string is sent to the affiliate server to perform a second encryption of the log in credentials using a second level algorithm to produce an encrypted token. illustrates preliminary steps of the installation leading to the first encryption phase in that results in requesting an encrypted token from the affiliate server in the second phase in called from . illustrates the initial encryption phase. illustrates completing the installation of the single action method including installation of the icon file used when the single action login is selected. also includes the steps leading to the launch of the browser from the user PC to perform the connection to the destination website upon selection of the single action. Finally includes the call to the uninstall routine of to be described.

The alternate embodiments shown in and illustrate examples of structural features enabling a single action. In an icon selectable by a cursor A is shown on the display of a laptop computer also equipped with a keyboard and a trackball . In and icon selectable by a pointer is shown on a display of a PDA also equipped with a keyboard . In an icon selectable by a finger is shown on the display of a cellular telephone also equipped with a keyboard and a navigating button array .

In the following description the term user PC is understood to mean any of a variety of computing devices having the capability of communicating with other computing devices or server facilities of websites or other locations accessible via the Internet or other wide area network whether via wired or wireless link or whether via fixed or mobile installations or devices. Examples include but are not limited to personal or business computers or terminals desktop laptop or tablet computers cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and such as devices known as Blackberry iPhone iPad and the like. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that these current examples may evolve into other kinds of devices or machines that retain or provide the capability of launching a connection to an affiliate site upon executing a single action upon or in association with an icon that is visible or projected by the user PC or other equivalent device or machine for example. Such evolution may produce devices or machines that embody as an icon a sound to which an appropriate single action response may be a predetermined follow up sound received by the device or machine emitting the initial iconic sound.

In the following description the term user data folder is understood to mean the private or personal data folder in the user PC device for storing data documents or other files. Such folders generally provide access that is unrestricted to the user of the individual PC. A personal user data folder is a general term for a user document folder such as for example the My Documents folder on personal computers employing Windows operating systems current as of this writing. Thus any equivalent accessible storage system or method in future devices or machines that can store icons user login information encrypted or unencrypted is contemplated by the present invention.

In the following description the term pointer is understood to mean a graphical symbol or physical object or signal that is provided at the user PC location to indicate and or select an action associated with an icon or other character or image segment appearing on a display or screen or image panel. The pointer may include but not be limited to a cursor arrow or other symbol appearing as part of the graphic in a displayed image a finger or other pointing device See used for touching the surface of the display a light beam or other signal aimed at a specific portion of a displayed image and the like. In many such embodiments a switch may be activated as a way to select the thing indicated by the act of pointing to it. In other embodiments the pointing implement may include a signal that initiates a selection of the action associated with the thing indicated by the act of pointing.

Some other terms that appear in the following description include XOR which is an abbreviation for the logical operation Exclusive OR. In the present context this term is used as the name of a form of encryption of textual information. The term API is an acronym for Application Programming Interface which is a software program or module that provides interrupts calls or data formats that enable application programs such as a browser to initiate access to services on a network or communication with other programs etc. The term SSL is an acronym for Secure Sockets Layer which provides a secure channel in the connection layer of applications that facilitate communication between a website server and a user s browser for example. The SSL protocol typically employs asymmetric encryption e.g. public key private key for ensuring secure communication between the sender and the recipient. The familiar term URL is the acronym for Uniform Resource Locator which is a string serial listing of characters expression composed according to a standard format that identifies the location of a site or entity on the Internet and an item of information at that location.

Referring to there is illustrated a first portion of a flow chart of one alternate embodiment of the method of the present invention that includes provision for encrypting user log in information. The flow starts at step followed by an initial condition with the user at a desktop or other personal computer PC i.e. the user PC and having an open window displayed on the screen of the user PC in step . In step the browser is launched to access the affiliate web page at the URL for the affiliate web page at the destination website followed in step wherein the affiliate server in one embodiment forwards the connection to the principal server to obtain and download the executable application from the principal server via the affiliate server. Alternatively the user may obtain and run a CD or other media containing the executable application for installing and operating the method of a single action log in via the same secure process. The executable application e.g. SmartIcon.exe may be run or saved for later installation in step . If it is to be saved the process shifts to step for saving and the process ends at step . If however the executable application is to be installed the flow advances to step for that purpose. After a welcome screen appears in step an optional step as will be described herein below user login information is requested such as user name password account number and the like in step . In the next step the user is provided the opportunity to review and accept a license agreement covering the use of the executable application. If the user agrees by indicating YES the flow proceeds to step to initiate the process to obtain an encrypted token as illustrated in .

Referring to there is illustrated a second portion of the flow chart of . Following step the executable application in step assembles a serialized string containing the following information 1 a unique application ID 2 the version no. of the installer i.e. a portion of the executable application and 3 all other user log in fields including the user name password etc. Before encryption this data is arranged in an array of value pairs wherein variables are associated with their values in table form and then read out or assembled into a serial string of bits representing each variable and its value in turn. For example the value pairs might appear as 

Next the flow advances to step where encryption of the serialized string is initiated at the installer side user PC and performed using the first level encryption in step . In this illustrative example an XOR algorithm may be used. The XOR cipher in this example may be a symmetric algorithm using the same 64 bit key for both encryption and decryption. Following the encryption step in step the serialized encrypted string must be purged of non alphanumeric characters because these characters will not be accepted in the URL string to be transmitted. Thus the URL encoding step replaces the non alphanumeric characters in the serialized string except hyphen and space   with a sign followed by two hex digits and spaces encoded as signs. In this scheme the sign is redundant and may be removed as in step to save space. From step the flow advances to step shown in in which the routine tests whether the same icon associated with the present installation was previously installed. If the response is affirmative the old token is appended for removal in step . If the response is negative the program proceeds to step .

In step of the encoded serialized string of data is passed to an affiliate server via a set up API Application Programming Interface as will be described for . These steps create the second level encrypted token to be returned to the installer via an SSL Secure Sockets Layer connection to provide a secure channel. From step the flow proceeds to step to set up the API at step illustrated in .

In from step the process begins at step and the corresponding first level decryption algorithm is applied in step to decrypt the string in this example using XOR cipher encryption received from the installer for further processing. The decrypted string is unserialized into value pairs in step and formatted for storage in a user database in step . Value pairs are again created in step and followed by serializing the data in step prior to encrypting the log in credentials using the second level encryption in step . In this description second level encryption means a more robust algorithm that may be used to perform the encryption without limiting the algorithm to a particular choice. Upon encryption the token is returned to the installer in step via the SSL connection. If it is desired to use an alternate algorithm for encryption decryption step is provided to allow the use of a different decryption algorithm. In step the flow advances to at step .

Referring to there is illustrated a third portion of the flow chart of for saving the user and icon data at the user PC in the user data folder. The flow enters along path C into step at the event whereby the encrypted token is received at the installer side i.e. the user PC. In the next step a user data folder is created along with a directory path thereto enabling it to receive and save the contents of the icon file when copied thereto in step . In step the routine establishes a Run API link to the affiliate server to obtain the quick launch icon s and login credentials as shown in .

Referring now to there is illustrated a sixth portion of the flow chart of and B for obtaining the icon file from the affiliate server. This portion beginning with step is called from step in . The flow begins at step and proceeds to step when the icon file is called in the process shown in . In the following step the link to the affiliate server is established whereupon the routine passes the stored encrypted token containing the icon and log in credential information to the affiliate server. After the token is received by the affiliate server in step the flow advances to step to decrypt the token via the corresponding second level algorithm to obtain the decoded information.

Continuing with after the encrypted token is received at step the token is decoded in step the string of data is unserialized in step the user s unique counter incremented in step and the user is redirected to the client side according to information in the login form to retrieve the user login values passed to the user previously in step . In the next step the flow proceeds to step so that the flow may return to at step . Step of provides for creating the quick launch icons for the desktop or other user display. The process in step may include as part of a START menu folder icons corresponding to options for launch uninstall and reinstall. The launch option process may be exercised according to to be described. The uninstall option process may be exercised according to to be described. A third option which may be called reinstall icons may be used to re set the user credentials in the event that they need to be changed. Re setting user credentials is often required to maintain a high level of security. Returning to step registry keys may be created for privacy trusted and pop up blocker sites browser shortcuts and installation history. Before advancing to the launch of the browser on the user PC the routine proceeds to .

Referring to there is illustrated a fourth portion of the flow chart of and A. From step the process advances to step in which the user is given two options a to automatically launch the browser version with encryption or b to not automatically launch the browser version with encryption that is to require further action by the user to launch the browser. If the user selects YES option a for automatic launch the flow proceeds to call the server API in step and establish the link to the server install API in step . The browser is launched to the affiliate server where in step the server decrypts the encrypted token via the corresponding second level encryption producing the decoded user credentials e.g. username password e mail address etc. The information is unserialized in step the user s counter is incremented in step and a timer is started in step . The purpose of the timer which may be set at three seconds for example is to provide time to display a thank you or other notice on the user PC screen. This time which may be set to any appropriate value may be used to communicate other information to the user PC. Next in step control is redirected to the client site via the login form with login values passed earlier to the affiliate server see step . At this point the user PC is set to receive the single action executed by the user and launching the browser to the affiliate server to complete the single action log in at step . The log in is completed at step . Returning to the option query in step if the user selects NO option b requiring additional user steps the process advances to an alternate portion of the present routine that requires the user as one example to execute a command to launch the browser to the affiliate without encryption of the log in credentials in step . When the command is given the log in is completed and the routine ends in step .

Referring to a fifth portion of the process of A and B the steps through for producing the encrypted token and returning it to the installer side are depicted. As described herein above following the description of this encryption using a second level algorithm may take place at the affiliate server to take advantage of the greater processing power that is most likely present at that location. For convenience the description of is repeated here. Beginning at step the corresponding first level decryption algorithm is applied in step to decrypt the string in this example using XOR cipher encryption received from the installer for further processing. The decrypted string is unserialized into value pairs in step and formatted for storage in a database in step . Value pairs are again created in step and followed by serializing the data in step prior to encrypting the log in credentials using the second level encryption in step . Upon encryption the token is returned to the installer in step via the SSL connection. If it is desired to use an alternate algorithm for encryption decryption step is provided to allow the use of a different decryption algorithm. In step the flow advances to step shown in .

Referring to there is illustrated a separate routine which provides for un installing the .exe application installed as illustrated in . It may be called from step shown in when the Uninstall menu option is selected which transfers the flow to step depicted in . Step starts the uninstall routine at the user PC by calling the Client Side Uninstaller. The flow on proceeds to step to remove the desktop and quick launch icons from the user data folder. Then in step the directory to the user data folder for storing these items is removed followed by removal of the registry keys in step . Thereupon the server at the affiliate website is called to remove the Server Uninstall portion of the .exe application in step . In step the encrypted token is decrypted using the appropriate second level algorithm which is the Blowfish algorithm in this illustrative example . Then the URL string is unserialized in step the unique user is marked as removed in step and a notice is displayed on the user PC screen that the user has been removed from the system that provides the single action login as described herein. At step the Uninstall routine ends.

While the invention with the encryption feature included has been shown in only one of its forms it is not thus limited but is susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the spirit thereof. For example the method of encrypting the user login credentials may vary with the application or the entities involved. Although it is preferred that the second level encryption of the token containing user login credentials be more robust than the first level encryption used in the initial access and installation of the .exe application for the single action login it may not be necessary in some applications. Thus the token may in some cases be encrypted similarly to the initial access steps. Although symmetric encryption algorithms are described in the example above it is possible that asymmetric encryption would be appropriately used in some applications. It has been assumed in the description of the illustrative example that the user PC lacks processing power to perform encryption or decryption of the more robust or advanced encryption algorithms. Thus this assumption may be called into question and discarded in certain applications.

