---

title: Peripheral signal handling in extensible three dimensional circuits
abstract: A method for handling peripheral signals in an extensible three dimensional circuit includes forming an extensible three dimensional circuit with a plurality of stacked crossbar arrays and at least one class of traveling lines which travel vertically and laterally through the circuit. The method also includes alternating the traveling direction of bundles of traveling lines such that there are a substantially equal number of undriven lines and underutilized lines which exit out of a given side of the circuit and creating loopback traces which connect the undriven traveling lines and the underutilized traveling lines to form driven traveling lines with a full complement of memory elements and eliminate addressing gaps within the circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08023307&OS=08023307&RS=08023307
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08023307
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR001 1 09 3 000 1 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In the past decades the semiconductor industry has been improving the performance and density of integrated circuits primarily by shrinking the size of the electronic elements within the circuits. However a number of barriers are becoming evident which increase the difficulty of making further reduction to the size of these elements. One potential solution for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits is to create three dimensional circuits which contain multiple layers of interconnected circuitry. A significant challenge in creating three dimensional circuits is peripheral signal handling.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

The principles described below can be applied to a wide variety of circuits. For purposes of explanation a three dimensional memory circuit is assumed with area distributed vias driven from an active circuit layer connecting to a first of multiple crossbar memory array layers. To allow for unique memory element addressing some vias must connect to wires that travel away from their original active layer connection point as they move up the stack of memory array layers. These traveling wires in a regular memory design will generally emerge from or need to be sourced into the memory circuit periphery of the memory array layers. This may cause a number of undesirable edge effects including loss of full memory capacity and irregular via utilization. According to one illustrative embodiment the memory circuit is rearranged so that any side that has traveling wires that need to be sourced into it also has traveling wires that emerge from it. Then the traveling wires that emerge from the periphery are connected back into the wires that need to be sourced into the periphery in a manner that mitigates the undesirable edge effects.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used in the specification and appended claims a crossbar array includes a set of upper crossbar wires a set of lower crossbar wires which cross the upper crossbar wires at a non zero angle and programmable crosspoint devices interposed between the wires at the crossing points.

According to one illustrative embodiment the programmable crosspoint devices are memristive devices. Memristive devices are described in U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 0079029 entitled Multi terminal Electrically Actuated Switch and U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 009033 entitled Electrically Actuated Switch both to R. Stanley Williams which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. Additionally or alternatively the programmable crosspoint devices may include memcapacitive devices. Various illustrative embodiments of memcapacitive devices are described in PCT Application No. PCT US2009 047164 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Capacitive Crossbar Arrays filed Jun. 12 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Throughout the specifications and appended claims the term programmable crosspoint device refers to a broad family of devices or technologies which provide the ability to program and sense state changes in devices which are interposed between crossing conductive elements. The term memristive device or memristor refers to a specific type of programmable crosspoint device which uses dopant motion within a matrix to alter the resistive state of the device.

Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical conditions. For example a memristive device may include a matrix material which contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of an electrical device. The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electrical field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants within the matrix. After removal of the electrical field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electrical field. These changing dopant configurations within a matrix produce changes in the electrical resistance or other characteristics of the device.

The memristive device can be read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electrical field to cause significant dopant motion. According to one illustrative embodiment the memristive device exhibits a rectifying behavior similar to Schottky diode. The state of the memristive device can be read by applying a full forward voltage bias across a specified junction while reverse biasing other memristive devices in the array to suppress leakage currents.

Each of the memristive crosspoint devices may be used to represent one or more bits of data. For example in the simplest case memristive crosspoint devices may have two states a conductive state and a nonconductive state. The conductive state may represent a binary 1 and the nonconductive state may represent a binary 0 or vice versa. Binary data can be written into the crossbar array by changing the conductive state of the memristive crosspoint devices . The binary data can then be retrieved by sensing the state of the memristive crosspoint devices . Additionally or alternatively the crossbar array can incorporate memristive crosspoint devices which have more than two states.

There are a wide variety of interconnection architectures which can incorporate the illustrative principles described below. For example PCT Application No. PCT US2009 039666 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Three Dimensional Multilayer Circuit filed Apr. 6 2009 describes various three dimensional interconnection schemes and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additionally various illustrative applications and examples of multilayer circuits which incorporate crossbar interconnections are given in Nano CMOS architectures using a field programmable nanowire interconnect Gregory Snider et al. Nanotechnology 18 035204 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Throughout the specification and appended claims the cardinal directions north south east west are used to indicate directionality. North is used to indicate a direction or location which is upward on the page south is used to indicate a direction which is downward on the page east is used to indicate a direction which is to the right on the page and west is used to indicate a direction which is to the left on the page. These descriptions of directionality are used for purposes of description and do not limit the structures to specific orientations.

Connections are made between the access gates in the access layer and the overlying crossbar array layer by vertical vias . In the illustrative three dimensional circuit shown in there are three crossbar array layers stacked vertically on top of each other. In this illustrative memory circuit a specific memory element is either read or written by energizing a unique row line and column line pair. As the number of array layers in a multi layer memory array increases a row line from a given row via will need to be connected to an ever increasing number of memory elements. Each of these memory elements must be connected to a unique column line and via. Since there are a limited number of column vias within a certain distance of a given row via as the number of array layers is increased the row line must necessarily travel farther and farther away from its original connection point to the active circuitry layer.

In the specification and appended claims the term pillar lines refers to lines or groups of lines which travel vertically but not laterally through a three dimensional circuit except through stubs that are each a fraction of the full line length. Pillar lines maintain the same vertical via footprint in all layers. The term travelling lines refers to lines or groups of lines which move both vertically and laterally through a three dimensional circuit. Additionally there are two classes of lines within the circuit shaded row lines and unshaded column lines. The designation of row and column lines is arbitrary and is used for convenience of explanation. In this example the row lines are oriented north south in the circuit and the column lines are oriented east west in the circuit . For example a first column line is attached to column access gate by column via . The first column line then travels to the east and crosses a number of row lines in the first crossbar array layer . At these crossings a number of programmable crosspoint devices which by example will be termed memristors are shown. The column line then steps upward and to the east to cross with a different set of row lines in the second crossbar array layer forming additional memristors. The column line makes a final step upward to the uppermost crossbar array layer in the circuit and addresses four more memristors in combination with four additional row lines . Consequently in this illustrative embodiment a column line with a full complement of memristors can be used to address memristors. The number of layers the number of memristors and the scale of the drawing have been selected for purposes illustration. The scale size and number of components within an actual circuit could vary significantly from the diagrams.

The plan view of the circuit shows one crossbar array within the circuit . The crossbar array shows a number of mini grids which are created by crossing groups of row lines and column lines . These mini grids can be tiled together to form the crossbar array layer . In this illustrative embodiment the column lines travel to the east as they move upward through the circuit. The traveling column lines will generally emerge from or need to be sourced into the memory circuit periphery of the memory array layers. This causes problems including loss of full memory capacity and irregular via utilization. For example column lines in the upper left portion of the cross sectional diagram are undriven because they are not attached to access gates. Consequently memristors which are connected to these undriven column lines are not accessible. Further because the undriven lines are not attached to access gates the voltages on the undriven lines may float at uncontrolled levels. This can interfere with the operation of other portions of the circuit.

On the east edge of the circuit there are a number of traveling lines which terminate at the edge before they have connected with a full complement of memristors. These traveling lines are called underutilized lines. The first underutilized line is connected to only 8 memristors and the second underutilized line is connected to only 4 memristors. The underutilized lines may cause a number of issues within the memory architecture. For example the underutilized lines disrupt the uniformity of the addressing scheme within the circuit . Assume for the moment that the example circuit had 4 layers and the full complement of memory elements on a column line was 16. It would be natural then to address this 256 4 1024 bit memory with a 10 bit address. Perhaps the most significant 6 bits could be used to select one of the 64 column vias and the remaining 4 bits used to select 1 of the 16 memory elements on the column line. Having column lines that possess less than this full complement of 16 memory elements makes such a natural addressing scheme impossible. A pragmatic approach would dictate that column vias without the full complement of memory elements would not be used i.e. their capacity would be discarded.

Further the underutilized lines have different electrical characteristics than other lines. For example the resistance capacitance and current draw of the underutilized lines may be different than lines with a full length and full complement of memristors. These differences may cause problems within the circuit because the access gates and other supporting circuitry may be specifically tuned to drive lines with a full complement of memristors.

To summarize traveling row or column lines are a necessity of extensible stacked memory array circuits with a given number of row and column vias coupled with the requirement for unique memory element addressing. These traveling lines given a regular patterning of the memory array layers will produce both undriven and incompletely utilized row or column lines which hurts capacity and presents system issues for the regular addressing of the available memory elements. This capacity loss grows proportionally as the square of the number of crossbar layers.

There are a number of potential solutions to the problem of underutilized and undriven lines at the periphery of the circuit. For example one solution to the problem of traveling row or column lines is quite simply not to have the lines travel. illustrates a multilayer circuit which is constructed without traveling lines. In this illustrative embodiment of one solution both row lines and column lines are in the pillar configuration. Rather than travel the row and column lines extend laterally outward from pillar vias in each in two different directions. The unique combinations of row and column lines in each crossbar layer allow the memory elements to be uniquely addressed in the four crossbar layers . However circuits without traveling lines are necessarily limited in the number of layers that can be uniquely addressed. Consequently circuits without traveling lines may not be extensible to the same degree as circuit with traveling lines.

Another solution is to just tolerate the capacity loss associated with traveling lines. Some peripheral portion of the chip footprint is patterned with incompletely utilized circuitry. Undriven row lines must still be provided for if having them float disrupts the operation of the usable portion of the memory.

Another solution may be to provide special vias at the periphery of the chip to drive the otherwise undriven row or column lines. Some periphery row lines would still be underutilized but a complicated manipulation of the memory address could potentially piece together these regions of the memory into a fully populated address space amenable for system use. All of these solutions significantly increase the complexity of the design and or compromise the utility of the circuit.

However the Applicant has discovered a method of handling these edge effects which maintains both the uniform addressability within the circuit and the extensibility of the circuit. As discussed above traveling lines can create a number of undesirable edge effects including undriven and underutilized lines. According to one illustrative embodiment a first principle of handling edge effects is for bundles of traveling lines to go in both directions in equal numbers so that the number of undriven lines that need to be sourced into a given side of the circuit equals the number of traveling lines that emerge from that side.

A similar technique can be used to connect the underutilized and undriven lines emerging from the west side of the circuit . Specifically underutilized lines from the second bundle emerge on the west side of the circuit. Lookback traces such as loopback traces connect these underutilized lines to undriven lines in the first bundle . Similar loopback traces connect other underutilized lines to undriven lines within the circuit.

Although only one group of loopback traces is shown loopback traces are used in each crossbar array layer to connect underutilized lines with undriven lines. The loopback traces can be formed in the same metal layer as the underutilized and undriven lines.

Note that no column lines emerge or are undriven at the north and south sides of the circuit of . This is because the row lines are in a pillar configuration and do not travel through the circuit. Consequently there is no need for loopback traces on the north and south sides of the circuit . However memory circuits considered later have both row and column lines that travel.

An additional line is attached to a fully utilized line in the first bundle . This additional line terminates in the second bundle without making any connections to an undriven line. This additional line is included for symmetry and is optional. The additional line does not have any significant detrimental effects on the circuit .

A number of alternative interconnection approaches are presented in the figures below. To facilitate this a more abstract and less ornate depiction of the circuit is used. In this more abstract view the invention memory circuit of if doubled in size to an 8 8 grid would be depicted as in . Each gray square represents a mini array where all row and column line bundles cross forming memory elements. The dark arrowed lines show the traveling lines where each step to the next gray square implies moving to the next higher memory array level. In general the grid can have any of a number of shapes including square rectangular hexagonal or other shape. For square or rectangular grids the size of the grid can be defined by two variables N and M. The variable N is the number of mini grids on a first side of the rectangle and the variable M is the number of mini grids on another side of the rectangle. For a square both sides of have the same number of mini grids. Consequently a square grid can be described as an N N grid.

Because the column lines share memory elements with row lines from both sides of the track they are traveling along the edge effect handling is slightly different. shows one illustrative embodiment for handling edge loopback traces for the architecture described in . The routing formed by the loopback traces is shown on a shaded grid which represents the multilayer circuit . As discussed above each square in the grid represents a footprint of a mini grid within the circuit. In this embodiment the loopback traces form double overlapping loops. The loopback traces connect a first bundle of traveling lines moving in a first direction to a nonadjacent bundle of traveling lines traveling in the opposite direction. This avoids reconnecting the traveling lines with pillar lines with which they have already interacted. In the example illustrated in the traveling lines can move laterally and upward through the circuit for 2M grid locations before reencountering the same column lines. This many overlapping loops approach has an array layer count limit of 4M which comes from a loop length of 2M 2 layers spent at each grid location.

While the loopback approach described in can be sufficient for most practical choices of layer count a loopback approach that achieves greater extensibility is shown in . shows an extensible multilayer circuit which is represented by a 16 8 grid of mini arrays. This wider grid allows the interconnection scheme to be more clearly shown and also demonstrates that the principles described can be applied to a wide variety of circuit footprints including square and rectangular footprints. The loopback connections in this illustrative design form double overlapping folded loops . Using the double overlapping folded loop design each of the traveling lines can interact with each of the stationary pillar lines thereby achieving maximum interconnectivity between the traveling lines and the stationary lines. This increases the length of the traveling lines but allows for unique and complete addressability.

In this example the step of reversing of direction of some of the traveling column lines has not been explicitly shown. However the direction of traveling lines may be reversed in a manner which is similar to that shown in . However in this illustrative example the column line bundles to not travel in strictly alternate directions as shown in previous examples. Instead two groups of column bundles travel in parallel and alternate directions every two rows. One principle which is the same in the various embodiments is that after the direction of the traveling lines is reversed the number of underutilized lines which exit on a side are equal to the number of undriven lines on the same side of the circuit.

To resolve these edge effects the direction of travel of the row and column lines is first alternated. Next loopback connections are made between the appropriate undriven and underutilized bundles of traveling lines to form lines with a full complement of memory elements. As discussed above this resolves the issues of floating lines and addressing gaps.

However this interconnection scheme may be less effective because redundant connections could be formed as traveling row lines interact with traveling column lines in a first square and then reencounter them in a different square. For example a bundle of traveling row lines are represented by bottommost the solid black line. A bundle of traveling column lines is represented by the rightmost dashed line. If the traveling row lines cross the traveling column lines in the bottom right hand corner of the grid indicated by the circled crossing point they will again cross after traveling two additional squares indicated by the second circled crossing point . Because the traveling row and column lines cross twice they form redundant connections with memory elements. Consequently the traveling row and column lines do not form unique addressing of the memory elements. The same combination of a row line and a column line would access two different memory elements one at the first crossing point and one at the second crossing point . To address this issue several additional steps can be performed First analyzing the interconnection scheme to determine if redundant connections are formed and second altering the interconnection scheme to eliminate the redundant connections. The step of analyzing the interconnection scheme to determine if redundant connections are formed is illustrated above with respect to .

Specifically at the first crossing point the column lines and the row lines are at the same level and in the same footprint. Consequently they interact to address a number of memory elements. With each step to another footprint indicated by the travel of a bundle of lines into another square the bundles of lines move vertically upward. Specifically as the column lines exit the crossing point the column lines are looped back into the circuit . The column lines encounter a second square and move upward one level. The column lines move upward two more levels before entering the footprint with the second crossing point . Consequently the column lines are three levels higher in the second crossing point . In contrast the row lines only move two levels higher before encountering the second intersection . Because the column lines are in the crossbar array above the row lines in the second intersection these particular row and column lines do not interact and do not form redundant connections. By altering the interconnection scheme the row and column lines are out of step at the second interconnection and do not interact for a second time.

In the first channel the direction of travel of the column lines is on alternate layers first upward and then toward the left. In this channel there are a number of underutilized column lines on its upper edge. Loopback traces connect these underutilized column lines to otherwise undriven column lines in the third parallel channel. At the bottom edge of the first channel there a number of undriven column lines which are connected to underutilized column lines at the bottom of the third channel by loop back traces .

In the second channel the direction of travel of the column lines is on alternate layers first downward and then to the right. In this channel there are a number of underutilized row lines that emerge from the circuit on its upper edge. Loopback traces connect these underutilized row lines to undriven row lines in the fourth parallel channel. At the bottom edge of the second channel there a number of undriven row lines which are connected to underutilized row lines at the bottom of the fourth channel by loop back traces . Combining the underutilized lines with the undriven lines forms lines with a full complement of crosspoint devices for each row and column line. This resolves a number of issues including eliminating gaps in the addressing scheme which are not useable and eliminating floating lines which may interfere with the operation of the circuit .

In the array layer of the row lines extend east and west from row vias to cross column lines which extend north and south from column vias . As shown in a line of row vias between the first and second channels does not have any attached row lines in this layer. Other lines of row vias have row lines which extend in only one direction. Yet another line of row vias have row lines which extend in both directions. As each line of row vias pass upward through the circuit the configurations of row lines which attach to the row vias may change in each layer. For example the line of row vias between the first and second parallel rows may have no row lines attached in the first layer yet row lines which extend in two directions in the second layer.

Rather than form loopback connections to adjacent channels the interconnection architecture has been altered to insure that loopback connections make additional unique connections rather than redundant connections. First the loopback connections are not made to the nearest channel since the traveling column lines have already created memory element connections to the row vias on both sides of the channel. By looping back to the nearest channel memory elements with non unique row and column line connections would be created. Consequently the loopback connections are made to a nonadjacent channel so that additional unique connections are formed.

The loopback traces are each formed in a single metal layer. For example loopback traces which connect the column lines are formed in the same metal layer as the column lines and loopback traces which connect the row lines are formed in the same metal layer as the row lines. The metal layers which contain the column loopback traces and the metal layers which contain the row loopback traces are separated by an insulating layer which can contain where selectively desired the programmable crosspoint devices. For purposes of illustration this insulating layer has been illustrated as being transparent. Consequently even though the loopback traces overlap each other they do not make electrical contact because they are separated by the insulating layer. Further no memristive connections are formed between the overlapping loopback lines since their creation in these locations disrupts the regular addressability of the array and so has been omitted. Relatively thick lines are used to illustrate loopback traces which are associated with column lines and thin lines are used to illustrate loopback traces associated with the row lines . However this is for purposes of illustration. In practice the loopback traces may have comparable widths.

As discussed above loop back traces can be used at the periphery of the circuit to connect undriven lines to emerging underutilized lines. This resolves the edge effect created by the termination of the column and row lines at the periphery of the circuit by looping the row and column lines back into the circuit . In the first channel the column lines extend to the west and terminate on this layer at the column vias that connect the column lines to the overlying array layer. In the crossbar array layer of row lines extend both north and south from the line of row vias between the first and second channels. The row vias between the third and fourth channels do not have any row lines attached. The uppermost line of row vias has row lines which extend southward. The crossbar array patterning and loopback connections illustrated in repeat every two layers.

In sum the advantages of the peripheral signal handling methods and embodiment described above clearly relate back to the edge effect issues that are solved. The costs of implementing the peripheral signal handling are minimal only a small amount of peripheral area on each memory array layer of the three dimensional memory circuit is used. Not handling these edge effects otherwise has an area penalty that grows with the square of the number of array layers. The illustrative method described above provides the tools to create a regularly addressable memory array not one that is carved out of the central area of a larger array. Further it cleanly handles undriven row or column lines which eliminates floating lines and addressing gaps.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

