---

title: Method and apparatus for controlling a display to generate notifications
abstract: The present specification provides a method and apparatus for controlling a display based on signals received from one or more input devices. In one implementation, a mobile device with a touch screen and a touch pad is provided. A notification module executable on the mobile device configures the processor of the mobile device to control the display to generate a notification bar and a content region. The notification bar contains an icon representing each application from which a notification has been generated and a number adjacent the icon for indicating how may notifications have been generated by the application. The content region includes data associated with the notifications, and is arranged in rows beneath a header identifying the application. The layout of the applications may be varied as well as the priority of ordering the application sin the content region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775963&OS=08775963&RS=08775963
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08775963
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100803
---
The present specification relates generally to computing devices and more particular relates to a method and apparatus for controlling a display to generate notifications.

The evolution of computers is currently quite active in the mobile device environment. It is known to include messaging phone and social networking functions in mobile devices and for such functions to generate audible visual and or tactile notification of events such as incoming messages missed calls social networking advisories etc.

A first aspect of the specification provides a method for controlling a display using a processor based on input from one or more input devices to generate application notifications. The method can comprise controlling a display to generate a notification bar region and a content region the notification bar region comprising an icon representing each application from which a notification has been generated and a number adjacent the icon for indicating how many notifications have been generated by the application the content region comprising content that corresponds to data for at least some of the notifications generated by each application receiving input from an input device to either generate the content in the content region responsive to causing the notification bar to receive focus or navigate within the content region.

The notification bar region can be located at a top of the display and the content region can be located there under.

The content in the content region can comprise the data for at least some of the notifications and at least one application heading. When the focus has moved to the at least one application heading and the application heading has been selected via the input device the method can further comprise launching the respective application by the processor. When the focus has moved to an item in a notification list in the data and the item has been selected the method can further comprise the processor causing the item to be displayed.

The content in the content region can comprise multiple notifications arranged beneath each of a plurality of application headers.

The content in the content region can comprise a generic message indicating that there are no new notifications when no new notifications are available.

When the content exceeds the size of a display a scroll bar can be provided for scrolling down to provide remaining information.

The method can further comprise customizing the content by providing at least a list of notification generating applications de selecting individual applications from the list providing an indication in the list that the individual applications have been deselected such that notifications there from will only appear as badged on any screen display that shows an associated application icon but not on the notification bar and saving notification preferences.

The method can further comprise customizing a layout priority of applications appearing in the content region by providing at least a list of active applications where the active applications are applications that pass notifications for viewing via the notification bar and changing an order of priority for display of the active applications by moving the applications in the list based on received input resulting in a re ordered list of active applications.

A second aspect of the specification provides a computing device comprising a processor interconnected with a display and one or more input devices the processor enabled to control the display based on input from the one or more input devices to generate application notifications the processor further enabled to control the display to generate a notification bar region and a content region the notification bar region comprising an icon representing each application from which a notification has been generated and a number adjacent the icon for indicating how many notifications have been generated by the application the content region comprising content that corresponds to data for at least some of the notifications generated by each application and receive input from an input device to either generate the content in the content region responsive to causing the notification bar to receive focus or navigate within the content region.

The notification bar region can be located at a top of the display and the content region can be located there under.

The content in the content region can comprise the data for the at least some of the notifications and at least one application heading. When the focus has moved to the at least one application heading and the application heading has been selected via the input device the processor can launch the respective application. When the focus has moved to an item in a notification list in the data and the item has been selected the processor can cause the item to be displayed. The content in the content region can comprise multiple notifications arranged beneath each of a plurality of application headers.

The content in the content region can comprise a generic message indicating that there are no new notifications when no new notifications are available.

When the content exceeds the size of a display the processor can cause a scroll bar to be provided at the display for scrolling down to provide remaining information.

The processor can be further enabled to customize the content by providing at least a list of notification generating applications de selecting individual applications from the list providing an indication in the list that the individual applications have been deselected such that notifications there from will only appear as badged on any screen display that shows an associated application icon but not on the notification bar and saving notification preferences.

The processor can be further enabled to customize a layout priority of applications appearing in the content region by 

providing at least a list of active applications where the active applications are applications that pass notifications for viewing via the notification bar and 

changing an order of priority for display of the active applications by moving the applications in the list via based on received input resulting in a re ordered list of active applications.

A third aspect of the specification provides a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for controlling a display using a processor based on input from one or more input devices to generate application notifications the method comprising controlling a display to generate a notification bar region and a content region the notification bar region comprising an icon representing each application from which a notification has been generated and a number adjacent the icon for indicating how many notifications have been generated by the application the content region comprising content that corresponds to data for at least some of the notifications generated by each application receiving input from an input device to either generate the content in the content region responsive to causing the notification bar to receive focus or navigate within the content region.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to a mobile wireless communication device hereafter referred to as a mobile device which can be configured according to an IT information technology policy. It should be noted that the term IT policy in general refers to a collection of IT policy rules in which the IT policy rules can be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and the like.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities . To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile device and how it communicates with other devices and host systems reference will now be made to .

Referring first to shown therein is a block diagram of an example embodiment of a mobile device . The mobile device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM which can be generally viewed as any type of volatile storage a flash memory which can be generally viewed as any type of non volatile storage a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . In certain embodiments to identify a subscriber the mobile device utilizes a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM card or RUIM is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM card the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM card RUIM into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM card RUIM includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM card RUIM is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM card RUIM can include some parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM card RUIM is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM card RUIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows mobile device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the mobile device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of APIs Application Programming Interfaces that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The IT policy module can include a parser not shown which can be used by the applications to read the IT policy rules. In some cases another module or application can provide the parser. Grouped IT policy rules described in more detail below are retrieved as byte streams which are then sent recursively in a sense into the parser to determine the values of each IT policy rule defined within the grouped IT policy rule. In at least some embodiments the IT policy module can determine which applications are affected by the IT policy data and send a notification to only those applications. In either of these cases for applications that aren t running at the time of the notification the applications can call the parser or the IT policy module when they are executed to determine if there are any relevant IT policy rules in the newly received IT policy data.

All applications that support rules in the IT Policy are coded to know the type of data to expect. For example the value that is set for the WEP User Name IT policy rule is known to be a string therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as a string. As another example the setting for the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy rule is known to be an integer and therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as such.

After the IT policy rules have been applied to the applicable applications or configuration files the IT policy module sends an acknowledgement back to the host system to indicate that the IT policy data was received and successfully applied.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include social networking games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the mobile device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the mobile device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that must be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the mobile device .

When the mobile device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example implementation of a node of the wireless network is shown. In practice the wireless network comprises one or more nodes . In conjunction with the connect module the mobile device can communicate with the node within the wireless network . In the example implementation of the node is configured in accordance with General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Global Systems for Mobile GSM technologies. The node includes a base station controller BSC touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to an example block diagram of the communication subsystem component is shown. The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter as well as associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements and Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP . The particular design of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network with which the mobile device is intended to operate. Thus it should be understood that the design illustrated in serves only as one example.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as with an associated tower station a Packet Control Unit PCU added for GPRS support in GSM a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Registry VLR a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . This list of components is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the components of every node within a GSM GPRS network but rather a list of components that are commonly used in communications through the network .

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the mobile device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the mobile device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different nodes. For example one node may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all mobile devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each mobile device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSN s via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given mobile device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP Dynamic Hosting Control Protocol server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP address assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a mobile device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each mobile device must be assigned to one or more APNs and mobile devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN may be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity IPsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a mobile device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

Referring now to shown therein is a block diagram illustrating components of an example configuration of a host system that the mobile device can communicate with in conjunction with the connect module . The host system will typically be a corporate enterprise network or other local area network LAN but may also be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In this example shown in the host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which the mobile device is associated. Typically a plurality of mobile devices can communicate wirelessly with the host system through one or more nodes of the wireless network .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the mobile device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the mobile device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other computers are also situated on the network and each may or may not be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the mobile device and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the mobile device for use. The information downloaded to the mobile device may include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers will typically also be connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this example configuration. More generally the host system may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the mobile device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the mobile device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a contact server and a device manager module . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the mobile devices . In an alternative embodiment there may be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the mobile devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components may also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this example embodiment the mobile device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the mobile device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the mobile device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the mobile device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the mobile device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages may originate from any number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some example implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system may comprise multiple message servers . The message server may also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store may be a separate hardware unit such as data store that the message server communicates with. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer may request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the mobile device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the mobile device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the mobile device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the mobile device .

When operating the mobile device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the mobile device . The message application operating on the mobile device may also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application may be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s information technology IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the mobile device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the mobile device are automatically redirected to the mobile device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the mobile device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the mobile device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server may monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s mobile device . The message management server may also compress and encrypt new messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the mobile device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server may also receive messages composed on the mobile device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the mobile device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the mobile device may receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the mobile device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server may also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the mobile device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the mobile device from the message server the message management server may push only the first part of a message to the mobile device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the mobile device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the mobile device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server may include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the mobile device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server may be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system may comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

Alternatively in some embodiments the IT policy server can provide the IT policy editor the IT user property editor and the data store . In some cases the IT policy server can also provide the device manager module . The processor of the IT policy server can be used to perform the various steps of a method for providing IT policy data that is customizable on a per user basis as explained further below and in conjunction with . The processor can execute the editors and . In some cases the functionality of the editors and can be provided by a single editor. In some cases the memory unit can provide the data store .

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the mobile devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the mobile device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the mobile devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP PN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the mobile device and the like.

It is to be emphasized that the foregoing provides non limiting examples of configurations for mobile device host system . For example it is to be understood that mobile device is purely an example and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that a variety of different portable electronic device structures are contemplated. Indeed variations on mobile device can include without limitation a cellular telephone a portable email paging device a camera a portable music player a portable video player and or a portable video game player. Other contemplated variations include devices which are not necessarily portable such as desktop computers.

Referring now to a specific contemplated variation of device is indicated at . Mobile device contains several of the same components as device or variations on them and accordingly like components bear like references except followed by the suffix a . However while showed a block diagram of the internal components of device shows an example physical appearance and structure for device . Of note is that shows the mobile device as comprising a chassis that supports display . Display can comprise one or more light emitters such as an array of light emitting diodes LED liquid crystals plasma cells or organic light emitting diodes OLED . Other types of light emitters are contemplated. Chassis also supports keyboard . It is to be understood that this specification is not limited to any particular structure spacing pitch or shape of keyboard and the depiction in is purely example. For example full or reduced QWERTY keyboards are contemplated. Other types of keyboards are contemplated. Device also comprises a first pointing device which in a present embodiment is implemented as a touch pad but in other embodiments can be implemented as a joystick trackball or track wheel. Device also comprises a second pointing device which in a present embodiment is implemented as a touch sensitive membrane disposed over display thereby providing a touch screen for device . While two pointing devices and it is to be understood that in variations only one pointing device and may be provided. It should also be understood that other types of input devices are contemplated including input devices which are structurally different than the specific examples provided are contemplated but are also functionally equivalent and able to for example receive swipe inputs and send an electrical signal representing such an input to processor . Device also comprises a speaker for generating audio output and a microphone for receiving audio input.

Referring now to another specific contemplated variation of device is indicated at . Mobile device contains several of the same components as device or variations on them and accordingly like components bear like references except followed by the suffix b . Of note is that in keyboard is not provided while two pointing devices and are provided. Again in a variation of device only one of pointing devices and may be provided although in such a variation typically second pointing device is provided in order to provide a touch screen for device

For convenience the following discussion is made with reference to mobile device including both pointing devices and but upon reading the remainder of this specification those skilled in the art will become able to appreciate how the following discussions can be applied to variations of mobile device . To that end shows a block diagram of device . is a modified version of and of note specifically labels touch pad and touch screen and shows auxiliary inputs which in the embodiment of may be optional. Examples of auxiliary inputs include buttons for invoking menu features escape as well as phone call start and phone call end as is known in the art. Also of note is that in a present non limiting example implementation touch pad is configured to not only be sensitive to touch inputs but touch pad is also mechanically structured as a mechanical switch such that it can also be mechanically depressed and moved in a direction that is normal to the surface of touch pad . The mechanical switch is also spring biased towards a non depressed position so that upon release the mechanical switch returns to the non depressed position. Accordingly touch pad is configured to receive selection inputs by mechanical depression of touch pad while touch screen is configured to receive selection inputs corresponding to screen focus by a tap received on touch screen . It should be noted however that in variations touch pad can additionally be configured or alternatively configured to receive selection inputs by a tap received on touch pad . Where touch pad can received a tap input then the mechanical switch can be removed from touch pad altogether.

While not shown in another variation it should be understood that touch screen can also be varied to also include a mechanical switch so that a force on touch screen will select i.e. click an item that is in focus on touch screen . Such a mechanical switch can be provided for touch screen either in lieu of or in addition to the tap input capability provided for touch screen .

As discussed above it is known to provide various functions such as calendaring contacts and messaging functions in a mobile device such as the device or . Often the icons for launching such functions are located in disparate locations such as different locations on a screen or within different screens generated by the display or . For example an icon for launching a function may be located at the top of a screen at the bottom of a list or can be located within a folder that is accessible via a display screen. It is also known for such functions to generate audible visual and or tactile notification of events such as incoming messages missed calls social networking advisories etc. According to one method and apparatus for controlling a display of a mobile device to generate such notifications computer generated icons are displayed to indicate which application generated the notification. A user of the device then navigates through the various displays and folders etc. in to find the application that generated the notification and then launches the application in order to determine what the notification relates to. The time and number of keystroke button pushes required to navigate to the application has a negative technical impact on operation of the mobile device. For example the time that it takes for the application to be located results in power utilization for operating the display and therefore contributes to battery consumption. Also the keystroke button pushes required to navigate to the application contributes to mechanical wear.

Therefore there exists a technical problem in how to reduce the time and number of keystrokes required to determine what a notification relates to.

Content region shows a plurality of icons for launching various applications for providing functions such as message text message contacts calendar browser maps clock and camera. The configuration of content region is non limiting. Other application icons may be included icons may be omitted and the icons may be configured in different orders.

Notification bar comprises icons for each of the applications or functions that have generated a notification and a number adjacent each icon indicating the number of notifications generated by that application or function. Thus for the illustrated example there are ten message notifications three missed phone calls and ten social networking notifications.

Further variations on the contents of are contemplated. For example the location size fonts colour of notification bar and content region can be varied. For example notification bar may appear at the bottom of display or vertically on the sides of display

As will be discussed further below navigation can be effected via the notification bar to bring notification content into the content region as shown in the example of and to remove notification content from the content region

In addition to the various configurations for display various methods for controlling the display based on input from one or more input devices are also provided herein. One implementation of this specification provides a method for configuring a processor to control a display comprising a notification bar region and a content region. The method also contemplates the connection of a touch screen input device and a touch pad input device to the processor. The processor is configured to respond to input from either the touch screen input device or the touch pad input device to either navigate within a particular content region or navigate between different content regions in association with the notification bar. shows a method in the form of a flow chart indicated generally at outlining a non limiting example of such a method for controlling a display based on input from one or more input devices which can be implemented for example via notification application . Method can be implemented using device or variations thereon. For purposes of explanation method will be discussed in relation to and .

Block comprises loading notification data such as notification of received messages missed phone calls etc. Block can be effected by loading notification module into RAM for execution on processor . Additionally block comprises loading contents of the notification bar and content region . It is to be understood that notification module can be used with any application on device including by way of non limiting example message application PIM or any additional application such as phone social networking etc. Specific non limiting examples will be discussed in greater detail below.

For purposes of explaining block it is assumed that the contents of notification bar and content region as shown in are loaded.

Block comprises generating the notification bar and content region based on the data loaded at block . shows example performance of block as processor is shown as controlling display to generate notification bar and content region

Block comprises establishing a default focus. As used herein the term focus is used in the sense that it is normally used with computing interfaces whereby a pointing device can be used to bring a particular item or component on a graphical interface that is currently selected to receive input. It should be noted that block is optional in that an initial focus on display can be effected by other means. In the case of touch screen input a default or initial area of focus is not typically needed because the selection of an area on the touch screen inherently defines the initial focus. By the same token a cursor can be used via touch pad input in order to select initial focus. A default focus according to block can however be desired where no cursor is included as part of the generation of a screen.

Block comprises determining if there has been any touch pad input. In device processor is configured to determine if any electrical signals from touch pad have been received as part of block . A no determination at block leads to block .

A yes determination at block leads to block which comprises determining if focus is within the content region. A yes determination at block leads to block which comprises navigation via touch pad input where such navigation occurs within the context of focus having been originally invoked within the content region. Such touch pad input can comprise for example one or more vertical swipes along touch pad or one or more horizontal swipes along the touch pad or both. Touch pad content region navigation process may be used to navigate between launch and or invoke functions of the various applications identified by the icons illustrated in such as email messaging text messaging PIM calendar browsing etc. Such navigation launching etc. may be initiated by depression i.e. clicking of the touch pad . The principles of operation of the process represented by block will be known to a person of skill in the art.

A no determination at block leads to block which comprises determining if there is focus in the notification bar . A yes determination at block leads to block which comprises a notification bar process discussed in greater detail below with reference to . Again such touch pad input can comprise for example one or more vertical swipes along touch pad or one or more horizontal swipes along the touch pad or both.

Block comprises determining if there has been any touch screen input. In device processor is configured to determine if any electrical signals from touch screen have been received as part of block . A no determination at block leads back to block .

Block like block comprises determining if the focus is in the content region. However block is distinguished from block in that block relates to focus and input actions that are received via input from touch screen . A yes determination leads to block which results in navigation or invocation of a selection or both of them via touch screen input within the context of focus having been received from within the content region. Where an invocation of a selection via for example a tap input received on touch screen is received at block then such a tap input is interpreted by processor as equivalent to depression of touch pad as discussed in relation to block . As discussed in relation to block such a tap input received at block may result in navigating between launching and or invoking functions of the various applications identified by the icons illustrated in such as email messaging text messaging PIM calendar browsing etc. The principles of operation of the process represented by block will be known to a person of skill in the art.

A no determination at block leads to block which like block comprises determining if the focus is in the notification bar . However block is distinguished from block in that block relates to focus and input actions that are received via input from touch screen . A yes determination at block leads to block which comprises the notification bar process as discussed above and an example of which is described below with reference to .

At block of a determination is made as to whether there has been an input via touch pad . If not then the process proceeds to described in greater detail below. If processor determines that there has been an input via touch pad then a determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to the content region . If not a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to the notification bar . If not the process proceeds to .

If processor determines that focus has moved to the notification bar then a determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input of the touch pad e.g. a click on the notification bar . If not the process proceeds to .

If a depression is detected at block then a second aspect of block is performed as indicated in whereby a reverse screen animation is initiated at block such that the view depicting notification content is caused to move i.e. slide downward and out of sight from content region as indicated by the screen transition represented by the left hand arrow in . Next at block the processor controls display to replace the content region with the original view depicted in as indicated by the screen transition represented by the right hand arrow in .

According to other embodiments the process of blocks and may be initiated as a result of an input other than depressing the touch pad . For example the process of blocks and may be initiated as a result of activating an escape button not shown or other input to device

If a determination is made at block that focus has moved to the content region a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to an application or function heading as shown in the non limiting example of . If yes then a further determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input of the touch pad e.g. a click . If yes then a third aspect of block is performed whereby the application indicated by the heading is launched by processor at block as shown in the right hand screen of the example depicted in and as indicated by the screen transition represented by the arrow. If there has been no depression as determined at block then the process returns to block .

If it is determined at block that focus has not moved to an application heading then a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to a row item in the notification list appearing in content region as shown in the left hand screen for the example depicted in . If not then the process returns to step . If yes then a further determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input of the touch pad e.g. a click . If yes then a fourth aspect of block is performed whereby the content for the highlighted row item is caused to be displayed by processor at block as shown in right hand screen for the example depicted in and as indicated by the screen transition represented by the arrow. If there has been no depression as determined at block then the process returns to block .

Returning to following a No decision at step a determination is made at block as to whether there has been an input via touch screen . If not then the process returns to block . If processor determines that there has been an input via touch screen then a determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to the content region . If not a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to the notification bar . If not the process returns to block .

If processor determines that focus has moved to the notification bar then a determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input of the touch screen e.g. a click on the notification bar . If not the process returns to block .

If a depression is detected at block then the afore noted second aspect of block is performed as indicated in whereby a reverse screen animation is initiated at block such that the view depicting notification content is caused to move i.e. slide downward and out of sight from content region as indicated by the screen transition represented by the left hand arrow in . Next at block the processor controls display to replace the content with the original view depicted in as indicated by the screen transition represented by the right hand arrow in .

If a determination is made at block that focus has moved to the content region a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to an application or function heading as shown in the non limiting example of . If yes then a further determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input e.g. a tap of the touch screen . If yes then the afore noted third aspect of block is performed whereby the application indicated by the heading is launched by processor at block as shown in right hand screen for the example depicted in . If there has been no depression as determined at block then the process returns to block .

If it is determined at block that focus has not moved to an application heading then a further determination is made at block as to whether focus has moved to a row item in the notification list appearing in content region as shown in the left hand screen for the example depicted in . If not then the process returns to block . If yes then a further determination is made at block as to whether there has been a depression input i.e. a tap of the touch screen . If yes then the afore noted fourth aspect of block is performed whereby the content for the highlighted row item is caused to be displayed by processor at block as shown in right hand screen for the example depicted in . If there has been no depression as determined at block then the process returns to block .

According to a non limiting embodiment display may depict multiple rows of notification items under control of processor arranged in tabular form as shown in . It will be noted that the tabular layout may include a single column e.g. as shown under the application heading WiFi Hotspots or multiple columns e.g. two columns shown under the application heading BBM or three columns under the heading Messages .

Also according to another non limiting embodiment display may arrange the layout of content region based on the amount of notification content available for display. For example as shown in display may depict a generic message indicating that there are no new notifications or it may depict a small number of notifications where only a small number are available for display or it may utilize the full display area to depict a large number of notifications and in the event of a large number of notifications from multiple applications the display may show multiple notifications arranged beneath each of a plurality of application headers as shown in the right most screen of .

According to another non limiting example for multiple notifications from only a single application all notifications may be arranged under the applications heading as shown in the left most screen of . When there are two types of notification screen real estate may be maximized as shown in the middle two screens of . When there are more than three notification types a default layout may be adopted by processor for causing the display to show three row items beneath each application header as shown in the right most screen of . Also if the number of applications exceeds the size of the display then a scroll bar may be provided for scrolling down to see the remaining information also shown in the right most screen of .

It is also contemplated that notification module may allow for customizing the view of notifications appearing in content regions . A non limiting example of how such customization may be performed is provided in . For economy of presentation the processor and notification module are not illustrated but are incorporated within the device and communicate in the manner set forth above with reference to . Also in the embodiment of auxiliary inputs are shown in the form of phone call start button menu button escape button and phone call end button 

In operation upon activation of the menu button as depicted in the left most screen display and selection of a Define Today View menu item e.g. by depressing clicking the button an animation occurs whereby a screen of presentation options slides up into the content region as indicated by the screen transition represented by the left most arrow in resulting in display of one of either a list of notification generating applications as shown in the upper right screen display or a list of notification generating applications along with associated accounts as shown in the lower right screen display.

From the list of notification generating applications individual applications may be de selected by depressing i.e. tapping the touch screen as shown in the left most screen display of . The processor may than optionally generate a display prompt as depicted in the second screen display from the left in to acknowledge that by un checking an application no further notifications will be appear in the notification bar for that application. Then the un selected application will appear in the screen display without a check mark as shown in the third screen display from the left in and notifications therefrom will only appear as badged on any screen display that shows the application icon but not on the notification bar . Finally upon activation of escape button the notification preferences are saved as shown in the right most screen display of .

Additionally it is contemplated that in some embodiments the layout priority of application appearing in the content region may be customized. Thus as shown in the non limiting example of upon activation of the menu button as depicted in the left most screen display and selection of a Prioritize Today View menu item e.g. by depressing clicking the button a list of active applications is presented as depicted in the second screen display form the left in where the active applications are those that pass notifications for viewing via the notification bar . The order of priority for display of these applications can then be changed by tapping and moving the applications via touch screen resulting in a re ordered list of applications as shown in the right most screen display of .

In an alternative embodiment the priority order of the applications may be re arranged via manipulation of touch pad as depicted in the sequence of screen images in .

