---

title: Investment management marketing tool
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to methods for marketing investment services. The methods may comprise receiving at least one signal from a position detector indicating a position of a viewer relative to a display screen in a first axis and a perpendicular distance of the viewer from the display screen. The display screen may be aligned along the first axis and a second axis. The methods may also comprise displaying with the display screen a user interface. The user interface may comprise an age scale aligned with the first axis, an asset scale aligned with a second axis and a chart of assets versus age. Upon determining that the perpendicular distance of the viewer from the display screen is less than a predetermined value, the methods may comprise modifying the interface to display an element at a first position on the age scale corresponding to a position of the viewer relative to the display screen in the first axis. The element may comprise information describing at least one of an investment-related event occurring at the first position on the age scale and an investment-related service related to the first position on the age scale.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08791949&OS=08791949&RS=08791949
owner: The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
number: 08791949
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
Many different kinds of financial institutions offer investment services including for example retirement related investment services. These services have traditionally been marketed by person to person means including word of mouth and cold calls to potential consumers of investment services. Such person to person means however severely limit the scope of potential consumers that may be reached. Mass media advertisements are also used to market investment research including ads on radio television and billboards. These advertisements however may be general in nature touting abstract concepts about the strength or history of the financial institution with little information about the investment services to be provided. The Internet is another marketing medium used by providers of investment services. Internet web pages can give providers the ability to provide detailed information about their services to a wide group of potential consumers. In practice however the marketing information provided on the Internet is often only viewed by motivated knowledgeable consumers who seek out the provider s site and invest the time necessary to read and understand it.

Various embodiments are directed to an interactive advertising interface for marketing investment services. The interface may be shown on display equipment installed for a provider of investment services e.g. service provider at any location where it may be viewed by potential consumers of investment services. For example when the provider is a bank or other entity having branch offices in highly trafficked areas the interface may be outside the branch office where it is visible to passers by or inside the branch office where it is visible to patrons. In some embodiments the interface may be shown by a display placed away from a branch office at a street corner or other location such as a billboard where it may be viewed by large numbers of people.

The interface may comprise a chart of assets versus time or age showing an accumulation of assets over the life of a hypothetical individual. The content of the interface may vary based on the position of the viewer along a horizontal axis of the display and a distance of the viewer from the display. For example the chart may be modified to include one or more elements at a location on the age axis corresponding to the lateral position of the viewer e.g. a position on the horizontal axis . Some elements may describe investment related events occurring in the life of the hypothetical individual at the indicated age and may also describe investment services available from a service provider that relate to the investment related events. The degree of detail provided relative to the elements and for example the element s size and visibility may depend on the distance between the viewer and the display.

The display screen may be mounted on the wall along a horizontal axis and a vertical axis . The horizontal axis may correspond to an age axis of the interface shown on the display screen while the vertical axis may correspond to an asset level axis of the interface. illustrates one embodiment of the display showing a viewer . Although one viewer is shown it will be appreciated that multiple viewers may be present and considered by the system as described herein. The position sensor may comprise a sensor element or array of sensor elements capable of determining the position of the viewer in the horizontal axis e.g. a lateral position and a perpendicular distance of the viewer from the display screen along a perpendicular axis e.g. a proximity . According to various embodiments the position sensor or elements thereof may be placed at a single location or a plurality of locations near the display screen . The position sensor may comprise any suitable sensor type including for example infrared sensors ultrasonic sensors visible light video cameras etc.

The display screen and position sensor may be in electronic communication with a computer device . The computer device may be any suitable type of computer device including for example a server. For example as shown in the computer device may comprise at least one processor and data storage . The processor may execute one or more software modules for causing the processor to perform various actions for example as described herein. The modules may be embodied as software instructions and may be stored on any suitable form of tangible computer readable media including for example the data storage . It will be appreciated that various other features of the computer device may be incorporated including for example memory communications busses etc.

The computer device may receive from the position sensor one or more signals indicating the position of the viewer relative to the display along the horizontal axis and the perpendicular axis . Appropriate processing to derive the position of the viewer from an image or raw signal captured by the sensor may be performed at any suitable point in the system . For example the sensor may comprise a processor and or other hardware and software for deriving the position of the viewer e.g. a proximity and a lateral position . In embodiments where the sensor is configured to derive the position of the viewer the one or more signals provided by the sensor to the computer device may directly indicate the position of the viewer . In some embodiments the one or more signals provided to the computer device may comprise raw data e.g. an image or electric signal that may be processed by the computer device to derive position of the viewer .

When the viewer A comes within a threshold distance d of the monitor as sensed by the position sensor the computer device may be programmed to modify the interface to show an element at a point on the age axis near the viewer e.g. a point on the age axis that corresponds to the viewer s position on the horizontal axis . The threshold distance d may be any suitable distance and may depend on the size and position of the display and the element. For example the threshold distance d may roughly correspond to a distance from which an average potential consumer can read and or appreciate the element. Elements may comprise graphics and or text that describe an investment related event occurring in the hypothetical individual s life at about the age corresponding to the element s position on the age axis . According to various embodiments elements may also describe investment services provided by the service provider that may be relevant to the investment related event.

According to various embodiments the example element may become progressively clearer larger more detailed or otherwise change as the viewer A approaches the display . Also additional elements may be generated. For example illustrates another embodiment of the display with the views and as illustrated in . In the view the viewer A is closer to the display along the perpendicular axis than in . Accordingly the example element appears darker and or has a higher resolution. Also the interface may comprise an additional example element . The example element may indicate an age of the hypothetical individual corresponding to the position of the viewer A relative to the age axis . illustrates an additional embodiment of the display with the views and as illustrated in . In referring to the view the viewer A has moved closer to the display along the perpendicular axis and across the display on the horizontal axis . Upon determining the position of the viewer A the computer device may modify the interface as shown. The age indication element may have shifted and incremented. The example element may have become darker e.g. of a higher resolution and or larger. Also for example an additional element may be shown. The additional element may provide information about life events and or services available from the provider.

According to various embodiments the system may be configured to deal with more than one viewer simultaneously. For example position sensor may have the capability to sense and or track multiple viewers at the same time. illustrate yet another embodiment of the display including views and and a second viewer B. In the second viewer B has come within the threshold distance d of the display. An element showing the age of the hypothetical individual at the point on the age axis corresponding to the viewer B s position and an element describing a financial event the life of the hypothetical viewer may be visible but faded out. shows the embodiment of with the viewer B closer to the display. The elements are still visible and have become darker and more easily readable.

In the illustrated embodiments various changes may be made to an element or elements shown by the interface based on the perpendicular distance d from one of the viewers A B to the display . For example as described above the resolution of an element may increase as a viewer A B gets closer to the display . The activation and deactivation of relatively low resolution elements may draw the viewer A B closer to the display which may cause relatively high resolution elements to appear providing the viewer A B with detailed information. Also for example when the perpendicular distance d from the screen to the viewer is relatively high large versions of elements may appear. These large versions may become smaller and display more detail as the viewer moves towards the screen. It will be appreciated however that any suitable dependence of the elements on perpendicular distance d to the viewer A B may be used including for example the inverse of those described herein.

According to various embodiments the system may be configured to personalize the display shown to an individual customer. For example when the position sensor is a camera the computer device may receive an image of a viewer e.g. A or B and match the viewer s face to that of a customer of the financial institution. The display may be configured then to show information that is specific to or may be of particular interest to the viewer customer. Other ways of identifying a viewer as a customer may include for example a radio frequency identification RFID sensor for sensing the presence of a customer s automatic teller machine ATM card a card reader that may scan the viewer s ATM card etc. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments when the system is configured to display viewer customer specific information it may be located in a relatively low traffic area such as for example in an alcove or booth of a branch office.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer device described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

