---

title: Virtual and location-based multiplayer gaming
abstract: A system and method combining real-world actions and virtual actions in a gaming environment. In one aspect, a massively multiplayer environment combines the real world actions and virtual actions of a participant to influence both character metrics and game play within one or more games provided by the service. In the real world or location-based events, game play occurs in and around links explicitly created between real world locations and virtual representations of those locations within the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573064&OS=09573064&RS=09573064
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09573064
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100624
---
The console and personal computer based video game experience has evolved from one in which an isolated gaming experience was provided into one in which users on a variety of processing devices such as personal computers and mobile devices can interact with each other to share a common game experience. One example of a system that enables users to communicate with each other is Microsoft s Xbox 360 Live online game service. Using such systems users are provided with a rich interactive experience which may be shared in real time between friends and other gamers.

Massively multiplayer games have been popularized by the availability of the internet. Such games allow players located all over the world to participate in the game under the control of a service administrator. Such games can provide an environment for social interaction between players.

Other types of social interaction are provided by social networks. Location based social systems allow users to share information on their location based activities with friends using the same system. Some location based social networks provide users with incentives to visit locations and check in once present at the location.

Technology is described for combining real world actions and virtual actions in a gaming environment. In one aspect the technology presented provides a massively multi player location based gaming environment or service. The massively multiplayer environment combines the real world actions and virtual actions of a participant to influence both character metrics and game play within one or more games provided by the service. In the real world or location based events game play occurs in and around links explicitly created between real world locations and virtual representations of those locations within the game.

In one embodiment the technology is implemented in a method of providing a game including a plurality of events comprising a story associated with a character. A number of location based and virtual based events contributing to user progress in the story are provided. User participation in at least one location based event and at least one virtual event advancing user progress in the story are received. User progress is moved forward on successful completion of each of the events.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Technology is described for combining real world actions and virtual actions in a gaming environment. In one aspect the technology presented provides a massively multi player location based gaming environment or service. The massively multiplayer environment combines the real world actions and virtual actions of a participant to influence both character metrics and game play within one or more games provided by the service. User actions within a particular game offered by the service may take place in either a virtual environment such as a gaming console mobile computing device dedicated gaming device or web browser or in locations the real world. In real world actions a user participates in game related activities which in one embodiment are tied to a user s location and movements. In the real world or location based events game play occurs in and around links explicitly created between real world locations and virtual representations of those locations within the game.

The massively multi player location based gaming service in accordance with the present technology may be utilized with any of a number of different types of games including games based on a story narrative or theme based games such as sports games. Any number of different categories of games exist including action games including first person shooting games action adventure games featuring long term obstacles as well as components of action games simulation type games based on construction or life simulation role playing games where a user is cast in a particular role in one or more adventures which may or may not utilize specific skill sets strategy games vehicle simulation games music games and any of a number of other types of games. In each of the aforementioned genres the technology herein allows use of real world events and virtual events to establish metrics for advancing game play. Any of a number of different types of game interfaces may be utilized including an audio interface a browser based interface text based interface a title based interface a console based interface a mobile computing device interface a processing device such as a personal computer or game console or any of a number of different types of interfaces.

In the context of this description the technology will be illustrated with respect to a narrative game example specifically a bank robbery game and a theme based game example specifically a soccer game.

Each of the various users may have associated therewith a processing device which provides location and or virtual based game information and directs users to location and virtual events which are linked to a common game provided by massively multi player location based game service . As shown in user can receive information directing him to a specific location that of user . User receives a message indicating bonus points in the game can be achieved by completing a travel event on Super Air . Various events and game types are supported in the context of the technology.

In a number of users and are illustrated. Each user has associated therewith a respective processing device such as a console mobile devices and a notebook computer and console . Users and their associated processing device may communicate with massively multi player location based gaming environment or service via network . Network may comprise any number of public or private networks such as the Internet.

As noted above any number of different types of gaming applications may be provided. In one context games will have rules and narratives which define events used by players to advance through the game narrative or based on the game theme. Advancing can comprise scoring completing achievements or progressing through the narrative within the game. Progress and scoring within the game is defined by the game status and scoring service . Theme milestones and narrative will define the narrative of the game or specific milestones which must be achieved by performing one or more of the virtual events and location based events . Events may comprise one or more individual tasks. An example of an event might be a soccer game and an example of a task within the soccer game might be to score a goal. In a narrative based game an example of event might be to find a treasure in a specific location with a task within the event to be to follow a particular route and collect certain milestones on the way to the particular treasure.

Character profile services track specific characteristics of a game character within a game. A character may be associated with a unique user. A user s character within a game can have characteristics which are defined by the game. For example in a soccer game a player may have speed strength and agility characteristics all of which are defined for the particular character and which may affect game play. In games where users interact with other users team member records may be stored. Team member records may include for example other real users which are members of a given user s soccer team and play with the user during events. Team member records may be a sub set of a user s friends on a social networking service or unrelated to a user s social networking friends.

Virtual events may or may not have equivalent real world events. Virtual and location based equivalents are discussed below with respect to . Virtual events are events which are performed using a virtual environment provided by a processing device. In one example a virtual event might be a video game version of a soccer game. In this example a soccer game has a real world location based equivalent a real soccer game on a real field. The real soccer game would be a location based event since it occurs at a particular location and as discussed herein may be tracked by the location based game service . Other virtual events such as slaying a dragon might not have location based equivalents.

Location based events are events which may occur in and around links created between a real world location and a game event. In an exemplary location based event a user may be directed to a particular location at a particular time and may have to position himself or herself and acquire a particular item at that time. In one example a user may be directed to a particular coffee house to purchase a particular type of drink at a designated time by the location based event. The event will be completed when the purchase is made at the location at the particular time. Thus location based events may have characteristics including one or more specified locations times character associations and tasks.

User positioning at an event is determined by the user tracking service . Tracking services may be performed using a geographic positioning system GPS or other technologies as described herein which are provided on user processing devices.

A user ID uniquely identifies the user to the location based game service. A user authentication service allows game players to authenticate themselves to the massively multi player location based gaming service . Authentication is desirable since it allows users to ensure that their activities are tracked uniquely within the system. A user tracking service maintains position information on each of the users which are utilizing the location based gaming service . User tracking services can be provided as described above by a GPS service and or by a specific game application resident in the user s processing device.

As illustrated in each processing device may have associated therewith a game application . Although in only one application is illustrated in a device memory described below with respect to it will be understood that each device may include an equivalent client based game application. In one embodiment no separate game application need be utilized with the present technology.

Each game application may include a augmented reality engine which provides game information to a user interface and provides data which allows the location based gaming service to provide an enhanced gaming experience to each of the users. In the example illustrated in a game application includes overlay data an overlay engine a position orientation calculator and local game data. The local event data may include one or more location based events which have been received from the location based gaming service . As discussed below events may comprise elements of one or more games provides by the multiplayer service. The local events may be stored for more rapid access by the processing device when the device is unable to communicate with the location based gaming service or to enable more responsive game play.

The overlay data and overlay engine may comprise location coded information which is provided to the processing device or peripheral to allow the processing device to present an alternative reality view to a user . Various examples of alternative reality views are presented herein. One example of an alternative reality view is to place icons or tokens within the viewing screen of a mobile processing device. Another example is to place tokens on a mapping service. Many mobile processing devices such as that illustrated in block form in include an onboard camera which provides a field of view image to the user interface of the camera. This real time image can be overlayed with tokens and overlay data using the overlay engine to present information on game events for the player. Other technologies such as head mounted displays and other augmented reality technologies can be utilized in accordance with the present technology.

The position location calculator may be a sensor which provides more fine grained location information to the massively multi player location based game service or code for instructing the processor of a computing device to more accurately determine player position based on information in the scene of the camera. The position location calculator can include for example image recognition technologies allowing scene capture information to be matched with a scene database allowing the service to more accurately define the position of a user relative to the global positioning service. For example geometric building lines which appear in the view of a mobile processing device can be computed and used to identify the exact position of a phone given a number of expected positions of geometric lines based on the known position of the phone and the known orientation of the phone. This information can be used in conjunction with GPS information to determine a position and orientation for a user. In one example once the system knows where a mobile processing device is relative to the global positioning system scene information an image captured by the phone can be used to calculate the exact position on the phone based on a knowledge of what buildings or other geographical features should appear within that image or might appear within that image given the proximity of the phone to a particular location. Known landmarks can be calculated in the exact position of the phone determined.

Third party data can be incorporated into the multiplayer gaming server service . Third party data can include social graphing information and user contact information which the user has provided the location based gaming service with access to via a third party application programming interface . In one example information such as a user s social graph from a user s social networking profile may be incorporated into the location based gaming service . This information may be stored in user account records and include a friend s list of a player s social networking associates. A connection service allows users operating the various processing devices illustrated in to connect to each other to play games based on the location based service or other games which are provided on each of the processing devices. A messaging service allows users to send messages to each other and users to receive messages from the location based gaming service . An event exchange at explained more fully below with respect to allows users at different locations to exchange and perform tasks which they might not otherwise be able to perform based on their remoteness to particular location based events .

In a soccer game for example game events can comprise matches scoring levels skill challenges or other events. In a narrative based game the game story may comprise a narrative which follows a particular character through a number of narrative based events along a thematic narrative which adds context to the game. In the context of a game story both narrative events and side events may occur. A side event is an event which is not integral to progress in the game narrative or theme but which may allow a user to acquire achievements or bonuses that present other challenges to the user or which provide skills to the user in completing the main narrative or theme.

At for any game a user activates game play at . Events may be requested by the user at or seeded by the game at . A requested event includes a user identified request to perform an event such as play a match in a soccer game. A seeded event may comprise a game generated presentation of an opportunity such as a suggestion to play a particular soccer match at a particular time.

At a determination is made as to whether or not any particular event is a narrative event or a side event. If the event is a narrative event the user will perform the narrative event at and progress in the story at . If the event is a side event at the side event performance will add character value or allow for a side achievement at . Side events include events which are an item of opportunity. Side events may be character building events and may allow the user to acquire special skills or physical attributes or weapons or separate achievements within the game.

Unrelated events are events that while significant and contribute to game play do not have real and virtual world equivalents. A soccer game location event may include post match socializing as or a joint team outing to a real soccer match at a real location. Virtual events such as play against a famous player or playing for a national team would not have real world equivalents.

The return to the narrative can occur at any point before any of the events illustrated at and . Once the user completes the first narrative event at the achievement is marked at and a next event in this case to find a bank is presented to the user. Marking an achievement completed at in the context of the game allows any subsequent events which depend on completion of the marked event can now proceed. Again the user must perform the event at in order to mark the achievement at and progress to the next sequential event robbing the bank at . At any point along the narrative path before each narrative event is completed the user may branch into a side event .

The example illustrated in A side event is but one of any number of different side events which may be provided to the user in the context of a bank robbing game. Once each event is completed at the achievement is marked and the narrative continues to the next sequential event. For example when the third event robbing the bank is completed at the event is marked at and the narrative continues at . Any number of different sequential events may occur within the context of a game narrative.

In at a user is presented with a choice of several events in a set of events which will advance the narrative. If the event is completed at the achievement is marked at and a determination made at as to whether all the prerequisites within the particular set of several events to advance the narrative have been completed. If not the user is presented with the remaining choice of events at . Before any of the events is completed at the user may branch into a side event . Once all the prerequisites for additional events and levels are completed at the achievement is marked and the narrative moves forward into the next group of events at .

In user is attempting to score a goal in a soccer goal against user . In one context both user and user are both participants in the location based game service . The interaction between user and may be relevant and may be a location based event in a context of the location based game service . The activities between the users the result of the game and the fact that the game occurred may all be relevant in the context of a soccer game which both the users are participating in. Likewise user may play user in the video game illustrated in . This virtual event may add to the context of the soccer game illustrated in .

Once the narrative event is completed the event is marked achieved at and a next event in the story may be provided at . In the next event is a virtual match between the users. This virtual event contributes to the story in the same manner that the location based event contributes to the story. Like the location based event each virtual event in this case virtual match may include virtual task achievements . If a virtual task achievement is present and achieved the virtual event achievement may be stored at . If there are no virtual task achievements or the virtual task achievement is not achieved then a determination is made at as to whether or not the event is completed. If the event is completed the event is marked achieved at and the next story event is presented. Event is a location based event requiring the users to play a physical game in the real world. The determination that a physical game occurred is discussed below.

Hence virtual events and location based events are linked to a common game theme and both contributed to the game play. At any of the event point or a user may attempt a side event and . In the context of a soccer game a side event may include training for a soccer game. Training in this example at comprises running. If for example a user runs five miles a location based tracking system can determine the run of the user and add this to the user s side event achievement. Once the event is completed the event is marked achieved at and the system returns to the narrative at any point along the story line illustrated by events or .

Tracking virtual events is accomplished by communication between any of the user processing devices disclosed herein and the virtual event service . Once a user is authenticated by the user authentication service the user playing a virtual soccer game on one of the user processing devices illustrated in for example can be tracked by the use of a particular game application on any one of the processing devices. Virtual events which have occurred can be stored and achievements noted by the game status and scoring service . Tracking location based events is performed in any number of ways.

In another alternative sensors can be placed within different location based elements. The example illustrated in sensors are illustrated on the soccer ball another sensor is illustrated as being in the soccer ball and other sensors and are provided on each respective user. The respective motions of each of the user the ball with respect to the goal and sensors and can be provided to the user tracking service in order to determine with much greater accuracy whether a user has scored a goal and the user is in fact playing the location based event of soccer. Proximity sensors and can be utilized to determine whether a particular ball has passed over a goal. Any number of other techniques may be utilized to recognize a location based event as described below. For example location based events such as running training weightlifting can all be tracked to a particular location where such events might occur. The granularity of the location of a particular user with respect to either playing a soccer game running or the user s position with respect to other types of game events such as collecting a virtual token described below can be augmented by use of the game application located on any of one of the processing devices described herein.

For example in the example illustrated above with respect to users and may have a virtual relationship of having played each other in a virtual soccer game without ever having played each other in a live event based game alternatively the users may have played each other several times in a live event based game. If based on location tracking services the users determine that other real world events have occurred such as for example the users attend a concert or meeting together a further relationship between the users can be defined at . Historical relationships can be defined at as well. For example the fact that the users and have played each other in soccer several times and user has consistently scored goals on user can affect the definition of user s character within any of the game contexts.

In one embodiment events for games a user is participating in or wishes to participate in are determined at and if a user is near the event at the user may be prompted to participate in the event. In one embodiment events are seeded around the user based on the user location. In this context events may be provided to a user s associated processing device based on the user location to prompt or encourage game play. Virtual events can be seeded as well as location based events using any number of notification mechanisms. Users may receive a text message or pop up window in a user interface. Users may see icons or virtual tokens appear in a mobile device interface. Where the event is a location based event a determination is made at as to whether the user is near the event. Where the event is a virtual event at the determination may be one of whether the user is active on the processing device and in a mode where game play might be enabled.

In one embodiment the user will be executing a game application on a processing device and may request an event at . When a user requests an event within a particular game available events are presented to the user at . The process for presenting available events to a user is illustrated below in .

At a determination is made as to whether a seeded or requested event was performed by the user. the occurrence of event may be recognized when a user performs either a virtual event or a location based event. At a determination is made as to whether or not the event is virtual or real. If the event is a virtual event then at the virtual event information is retrieved from the processing device and its relevance will be determined at . If a real or location based event has occurred at then location and event information is retrieved at and again relevance is determined at . Once relevance is determined at progress is recorded at . Relevance includes a determination of whether or not the event was relevant to a particular story narrative or other event within the particular game application for which the event is defined. After game progress is recorded at and next task options for the game may be presented at .

Location based events can be identified by tokens . In one embodiment tokens may comprise one or more of locations locations combined with times locations combined with times and teammates virtual representations of items within an interface signifying a location and or time such is icons above and coins and below or any indication real or virtual of a location based event.

In a user can point a mobile processing device having a field of view at the same scene illustrated in . As illustrated at user interface of device a virtual pointer can be presented to the user by overlaying game data on the screen of a mobile processing device . In the item presented is a directional arrow which may indicate to user that the user should proceed in the direction of the arrow in order to retrieve the treasure in Golden Gate Park as indicated by mission .

In addition it should be understood that although the elements illustrated in are virtual elements the elements may also comprise real world elements. For example a user may be directed to a local coffee shop to purchase a coffee drink. A user input for the particular location based event of purchasing a drink at a coffee shop will include the position of the user at the coffee shop and for example an input by a coffee shop employee that the user has in fact utilized the game service at the coffee shop. When the user purchases a drink the indicator by the coffee shop may include an entrance of a special code using a bar scanner to identify the coffee shop purchase to the location based gaming service or any of a number of other metrics to identify the fact that a purchase has occurred. Achievement will be completed when the user actually physically is present at the coffee shop and completes the purchase.

As illustrated in a joint task may require a first user to be present at a first location and a second user at a second location at the same time at sequential times or at different but specific time. Such a task may be completed by first determining a first user location at determining a second user location at and determining whether a task is complete at by determining for example of the locations of users and are within a given tolerance of where the user should be and whether the users are there at the correct times. Once the location sequence is complete the event can be marked accomplished at . While illustrates two users any number of different users may be required to complete a multi user location based event. Likewise although users illustrated in are illustrated as being present at the same time the users may be present at sequential times or within specific time periods as defined by the context of the event.

At the game story theme and or narrative is retrieved. At events consistent with the theme or narrative and the user s position with the story are retrieved. At a determination is made as to whether or not to offer the user a real or virtual event or both. If a virtual event is offered the user will be offered the opportunity to perform a virtual game element at . The virtual game sequence can include for example playing a soccer match or performing a video game play. In one embodiment a virtual sequence can simply be loading a narrative based game at a particular level at the last saved point in the game that the user stored the game prior to exiting the game. If a real world event is chosen a determination is made at as to whether or not the event is a local event or a distant event. A local event will within defined distance within which a user may realistically may be expected to perform events. For example a user may wish to perform location based events within a particular city or within a radius outside of the city but may not wish to perform events in another state or at a distance greater than a certain distance from the user. If the event is a local event then the user s location is determined at the user s game status is determined at and events within the user s local area are retrieved at . If the event is a distant event at then one or more locations outside the user s local radius are determined or a random location is selected at . In each instance event options at the location selected are presented at . Options include a single event mission a joint event mission with other users a single task for a particular event or a multiple task for a particular event. The list of event options is merely exemplary and may vary widely based on the game type and narrative. Tasks and events may be any of those described herein.

If the event is a side event at then a determination is made at as to whether or not the event is a character event. For example if the side event comprises running four miles then the event may comprise a character event which adds to the character s skill at . If the side event is relevant to the character then the character is enhanced at . If the event does not enhance the character then no contribution to the character is recorded at .

At for each event token locations are retrieved. At the user location is retrieved by the user tracking service and based on the tokens retrieved in tokens within the user s general area are retrieved at . Tokens may comprise the elements illustrated in above. Once a token location is determined at token locations are sent to a user s processing device at . The augmented reality service in the game application may perform steps through . In the processing device at the application determines the view and reference points that a user s phone or other augmented reality vice may be pointed towards. The reference points can be determined from the GPS information and or image matching or geometric calculations determined by the granular geographic location calculator as described above. Using this information the token location within the possible views presented by the user interface of the user s processing device are determined at . At these tokens are put into the user interface view based on the view of the user interface at any particular time. If the view changes at the token display is updated at . This continues until the task is completed at . Additional tasks may be checked at .

For each event at required locations and tokens are retrieved. This step is similar to step except that a distant location is utilized. At the location of the requesting player is determined. The requesting player may be a player who is not performing a distance event but for whom the distance event is relevant within the context or the play of the game. At location tokens in the distant location are retrieved. At the location of designee players within the distant location is determined.

In one context a designee player is a player who may perform a task at the designation of a user. This allows users in local game context to perform location based events at distances outside those which the user is comfortable performing location based events. At determination is made as to whether or not the user wishes to ask a designee player. The designee player may be a user s friend a stranger or a user who is willing to perform the task in exchange for other services via event exchange described below. If the user does not wish to ask a designee player then at the information is stored and waits for the user to reach the distant location in order to perform the task.

If the user does wish to ask a designee player then at a determination is made as to whether or not the user has a connection with a particular designee user. As noted above the designee user may be a user s friend or other connection via any one or more of the social relationships discussed herein. If the user does not have a connection with any individuals the user may wish to connect to a marketplace at . If the user connects to the market place and establishes a connection with the user at a mission will be sent to the designee at . If the user does wish to make a connection at then a connection to the user s designee will be made to the user designee at and the mission sent to the designee at .

At a view may be provided of the designee via massively multi player location based game service to a user interface such as that illustrated in . Alternatively a view of the distance user s field of view e.g. using the designee user s processing device may be provided. Using the user tracking service the position of the designee user can be relayed to the participating user based on any one of a number of tracking services described herein. Using this information the designee user s accomplishment of the task can be relayed to the participating user. A determination is made at as to whether or not the task is complete and once the task is complete the system is updated at .

The technology may be used in any number of systems and operating environments. Various processing devices are illustrated in .

As depicted in console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display such as monitor via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet. The broadband capabilities can also be provided wirelessly through a broadband network such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. In an example illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons and two triggers . These controllers are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

In one implementation a memory unit MU may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters for use when playing on other consoles. In this implementation each controller is configured to accommodate two MUs although more or less than two MUs may also be employed. In another embodiment a Universal Serial Bus USB flash memory storage may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage.

Gaming and media system is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from an optical disk media e.g. from an online source or from MU .

During operation console is configured to receive input from controllers and display information on display . For example console can display a user interface on display to allow a user to perform the operations of the disclosed technology as discussed below.

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The details of the bus that is used in this implementation are not particularly relevant to understanding the subject matter of interest being discussed herein. However it will be understood that such a bus might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and portable media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types can also be applied in the alternative.

A three dimensional graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in console includes a controller support subassembly for supporting four controllers . The controller support subassembly includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device such as for example a media and game controller. A front panel I O subassembly supports the multiple functionalities of power button the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of console . Subassemblies and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . In other implementations console can include additional controller subassemblies. The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals that can be communicated to module .

MUs and are illustrated as being connectable to MU ports A and B respectively. Additional MUs e.g. MUs are illustrated as being connectable to controllers and i.e. two MUs for each controller. Controllers and can also be configured to receive MUs not shown . Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. Additional memory devices such as portable USB devices can be used in place of the MUs. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into console or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller . A system power supply module provides power to the components of gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within console .

An application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . When console is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU wherein application is one such example. Various applications can be stored on hard disk drive for execution on CPU .

Gaming and media system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to monitor a television a video projector or other display device. In this standalone mode gaming and media system enables one or more players to play games or enjoy digital media e.g. by watching movies or listening to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface gaming and media system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community as discussed in connection with .

Mobile device may include for example processors memory including applications and non volatile storage. The processor can implement communications as well any number of applications including the interaction applications discussed herein. Memory can be any variety of memory storage media types including non volatile and volatile memory. A device operating system handles the different operations of the mobile device and may contain user interfaces for operations such as placing and receiving phone calls text messaging checking voicemail and the like. The applications can be any assortment of programs such as a camera application for photos and or videos an address book a calendar application a media player an internet browser games an alarm application other third party applications the interaction application discussed herein and the like. The non volatile storage component in memory contains data such as web caches music photos contact data scheduling data and other files.

The processor also communicates with RF transmit receive circuitry which in turn is coupled to an antenna with an infrared transmitted receiver and with a movement orientation sensor such as an accelerometer and or magnetometer. Accelerometers have been incorporated into mobile devices to enable such applications as intelligent user interfaces that let users input commands through gestures indoor GPS functionality which calculates the movement and direction of the device after contact is broken with a GPS satellite and to detect the orientation of the device and automatically change the display from portrait to landscape when the phone is rotated. An accelerometer can be provided e.g. by a micro electromechanical system MEMS which is a tiny mechanical device of micrometer dimensions built onto a semiconductor chip. Acceleration direction as well as orientation vibration and shock can be sensed. The processor further communicates with a ringer vibrator a user interface keypad screen a speaker a microphone a camera a light sensor and a temperature sensor .

The processor controls transmission and reception of wireless signals. During a transmission mode the processor provides a voice signal from microphone or other data signal to the transmit receive circuitry . The transmit receive circuitry transmits the signal to a remote station e.g. a fixed station operator other cellular phones etc. for communication through the antenna . The ringer vibrator is used to signal an incoming call text message calendar reminder alarm clock reminder or other notification to the user. During a receiving mode the transmit receive circuitry receives a voice or other data signal from a remote station through the antenna . A received voice signal is provided to the speaker while other received data signals are also processed appropriately.

Additionally a physical connector can be used to connect the mobile device to an external power source such as an AC adapter or powered docking station. The physical connector can also be used as a data connection to a computing device. The data connection allows for operations such as synchronizing mobile device data with the computing data on another device.

A global positioning service GPS receiver utilizing satellite based radio navigation to relay the position of the user applications enabled for such service.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through a output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The technology is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the technology include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The technology may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

