---

title: Firestopping bushing
abstract: A relatively inexpensive bushing easily installed extending through walls, particularly, gypsum board membrane walls for providing firestopping around a limited number of linear penetrating members such as cables or wires. This grommet construction includes first and second half sections for facilitating attachment around cables more easily. A split internal seal preferably of resilient foam material is positioned within a split mechanical shell which facilitates placing of the bushing around penetrating members prior to placement thereof through walls or after positioned thereof penetrating through a panel such as wallboard. A split mechanical shell with a two-piece foam insert retained within a bore extending therethrough can be formed as two separable half cylindrical shells. Barbs are included on the outer portion of the shell to facilitate mounting thereof. The foam firestopping seal portion can be intumescent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08397452&OS=08397452&RS=08397452
owner: Specified Technologies Inc.
number: 08397452
owner_city: Someville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
The present utility application hereby formally claims priority of currently pending U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 61 279 050 filed Oct. 15 2009 on FIRESTOPPING BUSHING filed by the same inventors as listed herein namely James P Stahl Sr. James P. Stahl Jr. Julio Lopes and Paul Gandolfo and assigned to the same assignee namely Specified Technologies Inc. of Somerville N.J. said referenced provisional application being hereby formally incorporated by reference as an integral part of the present application for all purposes.

The present invention provides a unique construction for a relatively inexpensive bushing or grommet that can be installed into walls to provide sealing about individual cables or wires or around a number of small cables and or wires or other linear penetrating members normally numbered no more than three. The bushing can also extend around to seal around a wire plug or cable plug. The bushing includes an internal foam seal which is designed to seal against the passage of smoke flames or hot gases therethrough for achieving firestopping.

Heretofore such cables have been run through openings formed in the walls or floors and then sealed with the use of various mastic materials such as sealants or putties some of which were for firestopping. Such openings are often sleeved in some circumstances with cables running through the sleeves and sealing materials are thereafter applied within and around the sleeve at the point where it penetrates through the wall or other barrier. These uses are limited in many ways because for example the sealants tend to adhere the cables with respect to one another and with respect to the opening through the wallboard which makes any changes needed to the cabling configuration at a later time quite difficult. Also such mastic materials are usually applied by hand by skilled workers and this is a labor intensive activity requiring skill and the time required can be quite costly and the effective quality of the sealing is highly dependent on the skill of the technician. Also these prior methods lack a finished overall appearance because the actual appearance of the final seal is very highly dependent upon the skill and diligence of the technician applying the mastic materials.

Many mechanical designs have also been designed such as rubber plugs or framing constructions designed to fit around one or more wires. Many of these constructions cannot be installed in typical gypsum board membrane walls because the wallboard lacks sufficient structural strength to restrain the expanding fixture especially when the fixture utilized is a rubber plug or similar design.

Usages of these above described designs are limited because many of them can only be placed upon the wire prior to placement through the wall because there is no capability for attaching the bushing or grommet to the wire after it has been positioned extending through aperture provided in the wall. Most such constructions are also designed for use with many different cables and larger cables and thus there is a readily apparent for use for a small inexpensive type grommet which can be easily be attached to cables plugs or a plug used therewith after they have been placed extending through the wallboard as well as being capable of usage prior to positioning of the cable or cable plug extending through the wallboard.

Many prior art devices have been used for firestopping around cables extending through a wall and for sealing around said cables such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 2 542 583 patented Feb. 20 1951 to W. T. Shea Jr. on a Cable Sealing Fitting and U.S. Pat. No. 2 985 091 patented May 23 1961 to R. L. Hatcher and assigned to Noll Manufacturing Company on a Cap Assembly and U.S. Pat. No. 3 125 358 patented Mar. 17 1964 to J. S. Kleinberg et al on a Building Lead In Connection For A Pipe and U.S. Pat. No. 4 018 983 patented Apr. 19 1977 to J. W. Pedlow on an Electrical Arc And Fire Protective Sheath Boot Or The Like and U.S. Pat. No. 4 086 736 patented May 2 1978 to L. P. Landrigan and assigned to Daniel International Corporation on a Fire And Liquid Seals For Pipes And Conduits And Method Of Forming Same and U.S. Pat. No. 4 225 649 patented Sep. 30 1980 to R. L. Peterson and assigned to The Flamemaster Corporation on a Fire Retardant Composition And Cables Coated Therewith and U.S. Pat. No. 4 276 332 patented Jun. 30 1981 to G. K. Castle on a Fire Proof Cable Tray Enclosure and U.S. Pat. No. 4 302 917 patented Dec. 1 1981 to L. A. Fermvik et al and assigned to Telefonaktiebolaget I. M. Ericsson on a Method And Means For Fire Sealing A Penetration For A Conduit and U.S. Pat. No. 4 363 199 patented Dec. 14 1982 to C. S. Kucheria et al and assigned to Kennecott Corporation on a Fire Resistant Sealing System For Holes In Fire Resistant Buildings Partitions and U.S. Pat. No. 4 467 577 patented Aug. 28 1984 to R. R. Licht and assigned to Minnesota and Manufacturing Company on an Intumescent Fire Barrier Material Laminated With Restraining Layer and U.S. Pat. No. 4 513 173 patented Apr. 23 1985 to R. P. Merry and assigned to Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company on Intumescent Fire Protective Sheaths and U.S. Pat. No. 4 548 853 patented Oct. 22 1985 to H. H. Bryan on a Closure For A Surface Opening Having An Object Passing Therethrough And Method Of Forming The Closure and U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 745 patented Dec. 24 1985 to J. B. Wexler and assigned to Fire Research Pty. Limited on Devices For The Fire Stopping Of Plastics Pipes and U.S. Pat. No. 4 623 170 patented Nov. 18 1986 to K. R. Cornwall on a Coupling and U.S. Pat. No. 4 630 415 patented Dec. 23 1986 to R. L. Attwell and assigned to Selkirk Division of Household Manufacturing Limited on a Fire Stop and U.S. Pat. No. 4 936 064 patented Jun. 26 1990 to J. F. Gibb and assigned to Backer Rod Manufacturing And Supply Company on a Fireproof Panel and U.S. Pat. No. 5 174 077 patented Dec. 29 1992 to G. Nurota and assigned to The Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd. on a Fire Protecting Structure Of Channel Portion Of Plastic Piping In A Fire Partition and U.S. Pat. No. 5 347 767 patented Sep. 20 1994 to R. Roth on a Fire Retardant Sleeve and U.S. Pat. No. 5 390 465 patented Feb. 21 1995 to J. A. Rajecki and assigned to The Lamson Sessions Co. on a Passthrough Device With Firestop and U.S. Pat. No. 5 447 400 patented to H. E. Seymour on Sep. 5 1995 and assigned to Xantech Corporation on a Wall Penetrator Fitting and U.S. Pat. No. 5 560 174 patented Oct. 1 1996 to Y. Goto and assigned to Home Co. Ltd. on a Connector and U.S. Pat. No. 5 594 202 patented Jan. 14 1997 to M. A. Tobias on a Split Sleeve System and U.S. Pat. No. 5 634 304 patented Jun. 3 19997 to M. P. Sakno on a Water Impervious Intumescent Firestop Collapsing Conduit and U.S. Pat. No. 5 729 938 patented to M. A. Tobias on Mar. 24 1998 on a Wall Penetrator Sleeve System and U.S. Pat. No. 5 947 159 patented Sep. 7 1999 to J. Takahashi and assigned to Tosetz Co. Ltd. on a Fire Retarding Division Penetrating Member and U.S. Pat. No. 6 711 329 patented Mar. 23 2004 to Dd. J. Zelesnik and assigned to Parker Hannifin Corporation on a Flame Retardant Tubing Bundle and U.S. Pat. No. 6 718 100 patented Apr. 6 2004 to D. D. Morris and assigned to Milliken Company on a Fire Resistant Conduit Insert For Optical Fiber Cable and U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 797 patented Apr. 15 2005 to D. D. Morris and assigned to Milliken Company on a Fire Resistant Conduit Insert For Optical Fiber Cable .

The present invention provides a firestopping bushing positional with an aperture defined in a wallboard panel for firestopping around one or more penetrating members such as a cable or wire or multiple cables or wires extending therethrough. The firestopping bushing is made of two half tubular sections. The bushing can also be used extending around cable or wire plugs to facilitate firestopping therearound when positioned in a wall.

The construction includes a first half section which is generally half tubularly shaped to define a first half bore extending longitudinally therealong. This first half section will include a first interior surface which is generally arcuate and concave to define the first half bore extending longitudinally therealong. The first half section further includes a first exterior surface being generally arcuate and convex positioned spatially disposed from the first interior surface and positioned facing radially outwardly therefrom.

Further included within the construction of the first half section is a first abutment edge extending longitudinally along the first interior surface and the first exterior surface and positioned extending therebetween. This first abutment edge will preferably include two separate sections. One section will be defined as the first abutment edge first section which extends longitudinally along the first interior surface and first exterior surface and is positioned extending therebetween. The first abutment edge further includes a first abutment edge second section extending longitudinally along the first interior surface and the first exterior surface and is positioned extending therebetween at a position spatially disposed from the first abutment edge first section with the first half bore positioned therebetween.

The first half section further includes a first head end defining a first head opening therewithin in fluid flow communication with the first half bore. A first insertion end is defined on the first half section which itself defines a first insertion opening therein in fluid flow communication with respect to the first half bore and with respect to the first head opening. The first half section will also include a first head flange section extending radially outwardly from the first exterior surface at the first head end thereof. The first half section will also include at least one or more first barbs extending outwardly from the first exterior surface to facilitate engagement thereof with respect to a wallboard panel responsive to positioning of the first half section within a wallboard aperture.

A first firestopping sealing section will be included of flexibly resilient firestopping material positionable within the first half bore of the first half section such that it includes a first sealing section arcuate surface positionable in abutment with respect to the first interior surface to facilitate retaining of the first firestopping sealing section within the first half bore. The first firestopping sealing section will also include a first sealing section planar surface oppositely positioned from the first sealing section arcuate surface and positioned in direct flexibly resilient abutment with respect to any penetrating members positioned extending through the firestopping bushing to facilitate firestopping sealing therearound.

The bushing of the present invention will further include a second half section which is generally half tubularly shaped to define a second half bore extending longitudinally therealong. The second half section and the first half section will be attachable in abutment with respect to one another to position the first half bore and the second half bore adjacently together and in full fluid flow communication with respect to one another to define a central bore extending axially and longitudinally through the firestop bushing.

The second half section further includes a second interior surface which is generally arcuate and concave to define the second half bore extending longitudinally therealong. Also included is a second exterior surface defined to be generally and convex positioned spatially disposed from the first interior surface and positioned facing radially outwardly therefrom.

The second half section further includes a second abutment edge extending longitudinally along the second interior surface and the second exterior surface and being positioned extending therebetween. This second abutment edge includes two sections. Initially it includes a second abutment edge first section extending longitudinally along the second interior surface and the second exterior surface and being positioned extending therebetween. The second abutment edge first section of the second half section is positionable in abutment and engagement with the first abutment edge second section of the first half section to facilitate abutting engagement therebetween. The second abutment edge further includes a second abutment edge second section extending longitudinally along the second interior surface and the second exterior surface and being positioned extending therebetween at a position spatially disposed from the second abutment edge first section with the second half bore positioned therebetween. The second abutment edge second section of the second half section is positionable in abutment and engagement with the first abutment edge first section of the first half section to facilitate abutting engagement therebetween.

The second half section will also include a second head end defining a second head opening therein in fluid flow communication with the second half bore. The second head opening and the first head opening are positioned adjacently to define together a main head opening responsive to abutting engagement between the first half section and the second half section. Also defined on the second half section is a second insertion end which defines a second insertion end opening therein in fluid flow communication with respect to the second half bore and with respect to the second head opening. The second insertion opening and the first insertion opening are positioned adjacently to define a main insertion opening responsive to abutting engagement between the first half section and the second half section.

The second half section further includes a second head flange section extending radially outwardly from the second exterior surface at the second head end. The second head flange section is positioned adjacent to the first head flange section to define a head flange responsive to abutting engagement between the first half section and the second half section. Further included is at least one or more second barbs extending outwardly from the second exterior surface to facilitate engagement thereof with respect to the wallboard panel responsive to positioning of the second half section within the wallboard panel aperture.

The bushing further includes a second firestopping sealing section of flexibly resilient firestopping material positionable within the second half bore of the second half section. This second firestopping sealing section includes a second sealing section arcuate surface positionable in abutment with respect to the second interior surface to facilitate retaining of the second firestopping sealing section within the second half bore. The second firestopping sealing section also includes a second sealing section planar surface oppositely positioned from the second sealing section arcuate surface and positionable in direct flexibly resilient abutment with the first sealing section planar surface to define a sealing seam therebetween for receiving penetrating members positioned extending therethrough to facilitate firestop sealing therearound.

The first firestopping sealing section and the second firestopping sealing section are both made of flexibly resilient foam material preferably and also are preferably intumescent.

One of the unique characteristics of the present invention is that the first half sections and the second half sections are all formed identically with respect to one another thereby eliminating the inventory problem of maintaining two separately configured pieces for the first half section and the second section. Thus each half section can mutually engage with any other half section to form the bushing of the present invention.

The first half section can include a first engaging means positioned along the first abutment edge thereof and the second half section can include a second engaging means positioned along the second abutment edge thereof. This first engagement means and this second engagement means can be engageable with respect to one another to retain the first abutment edge of the first half section with respect to the second abutment edge of the second half section.

In the preferred configuration of the present invention a plurality of latching pins and latching slots will be defined in the first abutment edge and second abutment edge to facilitate respective engagement therebetween.

Preferably the firestopping bushing first half section and second half section are made of a thermoplastic material and the first and second firestopping sealing sections are both made of a foam intumescent flexibly resilient material.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to eliminate the extensive labor costs for the sealing around individual cables or small bundles of cables or cable plugs extending through walls.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to provide an inexpensive bushing or grommet that can be installed into walls for smoke sealing of individual cables or a small bundle of normally not more than three such cables.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to eliminate the use of sealants or putties that is applied by skilled personnel to seal around individual cables or small bundles of cables or around a cable plug extending through wallboards.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to provide a means for positioning thereof around a cable that is already extending through a wallboard surface or is about to be placed through an opening extending through a wallboard surface.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to provide a clean appearance where cables penetrating non rated gypsum wallboards.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to include raised ribs or barbs on the external surface thereof to facilitate maintaining of engagement in position with respect to the wall construction.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to provide a split mechanical shell made of molded thermoplastic or thermosetting material which can facilitate overall firestopping.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to provide a split mechanical shell which can be made from two identical halves which can be attached with respect to one another about a cable prior to positioning thereof extending through a wallboard or sheetrock construction.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to include a tapered section on the shell to facilitate insertion thereof in position mounted within gypsum wallboard.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to severely limit the movement of smoke flame or hot gases through a wall adjacent to a cable extending therethrough.

It is an object of the firestopping bushing of the present invention to facilitate firestopping around individual or a small number of relatively small cables utilizing a split foam seal which can include an intumescent component or will be fully functional without the inclusion of an intumescent component.

The present invention provides a generally inexpensive and easy to use firestopping bushing for use in placement in a wallboard panel by placement into an aperture through which a penetrating member such as a cable or wire or multiple small cables or wires can extend. The bushing can also be placed surrounding a wire or cable plug as shown in . The bushing is configured in two half sections including a first half section and a second half section . The two half sections and can be secured with respect to one another to form the final bushing configuration.

Each half section is configured preferably identically. In particular the first half section includes a first half bore means extending longitudinally therealong and a first interior surface being generally concave and defining the first half bore means therewithin. The first half section will also define a first exterior surface facing radially outwardly and spatially disposed from the first interior surface . Extending therebetween is a first abutment edge including a first abutment edge first section also referenced herein as the primary first abutment edge section and a first abutment edge second section also referenced herein as the secondary first abutment edge section as shown best in . The first half section will include a first head end which head end defines a first head opening means therewithin. At the opposite end of the first half section a first insertion end is defined. First insertion end defines a first insertion end opening means therein. A first head flange section is positioned at the first head end of the first half section .

One or more first barbs are positioned on the first exterior surface as shown best in for the purpose of engaging the wallboard panel and in particular engaging the rear surface thereof as shown best in and . Preferably multiple first barbs will be included such that use of the device of the present invention is possible with wallboard panels of varying thicknesses. An example of such varying thicknesses is shown in which depict a single thickness and double thickness wallboard panel respectively. A first firestopping sealing section is defined positionable within the first half bore means of first half section . This first firestopping sealing section is preferably made of a firestopping material preferably in a foam format and preferably including an intumescent component to facilitate firestopping. The first firestopping sealing section defines a first sealing section arcuate surface adapted to abut the first interior surface of the first half section and in this manner be positioned within the first half bore means . A first sealing section planar surface is also defined by the first firestopping sealing section for the purpose of being positioned in abutting flexibly resilient engagement with respect to one or more penetrating members extending through the first half bore means .

In a similar configuration as shown best in a second half section may define a second half bore means extending longitudinally therealong. In the preferred configuration of this invention the first half section and the second half section are designed to be brought into abutting engagement with respect to one another by abutment of the first abutment edge of first half section and the second abutment edge of the second half section . With second abutment edge in abutment and engaged with respect to the first abutment edge the first half bore means and the second half bore means will be positioned in abutment with respect to one another and will define a central bore means extending along the bushing configuration in position between the first half section and the second half section .

The second half section will preferably include a second interior surface which defines the second half bore means extending therealong. The second half section will also include a second exterior surface facing radially outwardly from the second interior surface and spatially disposed therefrom. The edges extending between the second exterior surface and the second interior surface will comprise the two sections of the second abutment edge . In this manner the second abutment edge includes a second abutment edge first section also referenced herein as the primary second abutment edge section and a second abutment edge second section also referenced herein as the secondary second abutment edge section each of which will extend between the exterior surface and the second interior surface and be spatially disposed from one another as shown best in .

The second half section will define a second head end which defines a second head end opening therewithin. When the first half section and the second half section are in abutment with respect to one another the first head opening means and the second head opening means will be positioned in abutment with respect to one another to define a main head opening means therebetween.

The second half section will also define a second insertion end preferably at the opposite end from the second head end . This second insertion end will define a second insertion end opening means . When the first half section and the second half section are engaged in abutment with respect to one another with the first abutment edge in engaging abutment with respect to the second abutment edge the second insertion end opening means will be positioned adjacent to the first insertion end opening means such as to mutually define the main insertion opening means . The main opening means will preferably be in full fluid flow communication with respect to the central bore means and with respect to the main head opening means . With this configuration the overall shape of the bushing of the present invention will be generally cylindrical with the outer cylindrical surface formed by the first exterior surface and the second exterior surface . This cylindrical shape will define a central bore means extending axially downwardly therethrough from a main head opening means at the first head end and the second head and will continue to the first insertion end and the second insertion end to the main insertion opening means . In this manner the central bore will extend completely through the bushing to define an area for retaining of the firestopping sealing sections.

The second half section will also include a second flange section at the head end thereof which will be positionable adjacent to the first head flange section when the first half section and the second half section are joined to one another to define a head flange . This head flange will extend outwardly from the first half section and the second half section to limit the depth of penetration of the bushing into the aperture formed in the wallboard panel .

One or more second barbs are positioned extending outwardly from the second exterior surface of the second half section to facilitate engagement with respect to the wallboard panel when the second half section is positioned within the aperture defined in panel .

A second firestopping sealing section is included in the construction of the bushing of the present invention. Second firestopping sealing section includes a second sealing second arcuate surface positionable in abutting engagement with respect to the second interior surface of the second half section to facilitate retaining of the second firestopping sealing section within the second half bore in direct abutment with the second interior surface . Second firestopping sealing section also defines a second sealing section planar surface oppositely positioned on the second firestopping sealing section from the second sealing section arcuate surface and adapted to engage penetrating members extending through the central bore of the bushing of the present invention.

In the preferred configuration of the present invention the second sealing section planar surface will be in direct abutment with respect to the first sealing section planar surface in such a manner as to define a sealing seam therebetween. This seam is designed to receive the penetrating member or members extending therethrough as they pass through the central bore to facilitate firestop sealing therearound.

The first half section of the present invention includes a first engaging means and the second half section includes a second engaging means . Engaging means and are adapted to engage one another to facilitate engagement of the first half section and the second half section with respect to one another with the first abutment edge in engagement with respect to the second abutment edge . The preferable manner of engaging the first abutment edge with respect to the second abutment edge is engaging of the first abutment edge first section with respect to the second abutment edge second section . Similarly the first abutment edge second section is preferably designed to be attached with respect to the second abutment edge first section . This manner of engagement by choosing the appropriate configuration for both the first engaging means and the second engaging means allows the construction of the present invention to be made wherein the first half section and the second half section are of identical constructions. That is they are made as the same part and only are at a later time defined as the first half section and the second half section and in this manner only one inventory identification need be made and only one mold need be made in order to form both the first half section and the second half section .

With this construction the configuration of the engaging means includes a first latching pin and a first latching slot defined on the first abutment edge first section . In the configuration shown in the first latching pin will be closer to the first head end of first half section and the first latching slot will be further distant therefrom spatially disposed away from the first latching pin . In this manner the first latching slot will be closer to the first insertion end thereof. To facilitate engagement the first latching pin will include a first latching pin shoulder and the first latching slot will include therein a first latching slot shoulder . The first abutment edge first section is designed to engage with respect to the second abutment edge second section . A fourth latching pin and a fourth latching slot are defined on the second abutment edge second section . The positioning of the fourth latching pin and the fourth latching slot is opposite from the relative positioning of the similarly shaped pin and slot defined on the first abutment edge first section to facilitate engagement therebetween. That is the fourth latching pin will be closer to the second insertion end whereas the fourth latching slot will be closer to the second head end . In this manner when the first abutment edge first section is positioned in abutment with respect to the second abutment edge second section the first latching pin will extend into the fourth latching slot for engagement therewith. The fourth latching slot will define a fourth latching slot shoulder which is adapted to engage with respect to the first latching pin shoulder of first latching pin to facilitate engagement therewith.

Similarly when the first abutment edge first section is in abutting engagement with respect to the second abutment edge second section the fourth latching pin will be positionable extending into the first latching slot in such a manner as to be engageable therebetween. Fourth latching pin will define a fourth latching pin shoulder therewithin adapted to engage with respect to the first latching slot shoulder in such a manner as to facilitate engagement between the first latching slot and the fourth latching pin .

When the first half section is positioned in abutment with second half section to facilitate engagement therebetween the first abutment edge second section will be in abutting alignment and engagement with respect to the second abutment edge first section . To facilitate detachable engagement therebetween a plurality of slots and pins are positioned on these two surfaces similar to the configuration described above in regard to the first abutment edge first section and the second abutment edge second section .

For this purpose a second latching pin will extend outwardly from the first abutment edge second section . Second latching pin preferably includes a second latching pin shoulder thereon to facilitate engagement with respect thereto. The first abutment edge second section further defines a second latching slot therein which includes a second latching slot shoulder therewithin to facilitate engagement therewith. On the first abutment edge second section the second latching slot will be closer to the second head end and the second latching pin will be positioned closer to the second insertion end . The second latching pin and the second latching slot will be separated from one another with similar spacing as on each of the sections of the different firestopping sealing sections.

As shown in the second abutment edge first section will include a third latching pin defined thereon with a third latching pin shoulder defined by pin . The second abutment edge first section will also include a third latching slot therein with a third latching slot shoulder defined therewithin.

When the first half section and the second half section are positioned in abutment with respect to one another the second latching pin will be in registration and aligned with the third latching slot such that the second latching pin shoulder can engage with respect to the third latching slot shoulder to facilitate engagement between second latching pin and third latching slot . Simultaneously the third latching pin will be in alignment with respect to the second latching slot such that the third latching pin shoulder can engage the second latching pin shoulder for engaging third latching pin within the second latching slot .

In this manner full engaging abutment will be achieved firstly between the first abutment edge first section and the second abutment edge second section as well as between the first abutment edge second section and the second abutment edge first section . It should be appreciated that by reversing the position of the pin and the slot on the first and second sections of each half section both the first half section and the second half section it is possible to use the same identical piece as the first half section and the second half section which provides obvious substantial savings in both inventory costs and mold costs.

Preferably the first half section will include a first head retaining rim adjacent the first head end and a second head retaining rim will be positioned adjacent the second head end of second half section . The first head retaining rim and the second head retaining rim will both extend to a very small extent into the main head opening means for the purpose of retaining the first firestopping sealing section and the second firestopping sealing section within the central bore means .

In a similar manner the first half bore means will define a first insertion retaining rim extending slightly into the first half bore means thereof. Similarly the second half section will define a second insertion retaining rim extending slightly or to a very limited distance into the second half bore means . As such the first insertion retaining rim and the second insertion retaining rim will both extend slightly into the main insertion opening means which will further facilitate retaining of both the first firestopping sealing section and the firestopping sealing section within the central bore .

To facilitate maintaining alignment between the first abutment edge first section and the second abutment edge second section and between the first abutment edge second section and the second abutment edge first section a plurality of alignment pins are included along with a plurality of alignment apertures which are registrable with respect to one another and facilitate maintaining relative registration and alignment between the first half section and the second half section when in abutment with respect to one another.

Insertion of the bushing of the present invention is facilitated by the defining of a bevel at the first insertion end of the first half bore means and at the second insertion end of the second half section which greatly facilitates ease of placement thereof within an aperture defined in the wallboard .

As such in use two separate half sections are provided one of which is defined to be the first half section and the other of which is defined to be the second half section . The penetrating wire or cable is placed in abutment with the exposed first sealing section planar surface of first half section and the second sealing section planar surface exposed on second half section . With the penetrating member held flexibly resiliently in abutment with respect to these two planar sections the first half section is positioned in abutment for engagement with respect to the second half section thereby capturing the penetrating member or members therebetween within the sealing seam . This formed cylindrical bushing with the head flange can then be pressed into the aperture defined in the wallboard until the bottom portion of the head flange contacts the outer surface of the wallboard panel . In this manner the bushing is finally positioned in the wall and firestopping is achieved in a simple and convenient manner and use is made possible wherein a wire is already placed extending through the wall and firestopping can be achieved in an after market fashion in a quick and expedient manner with respect to wires already existing extending through walls and wallboard panels .

It is fairly common to position wire or cable plugs within wallboard panels . The bushing of the present invention is very useful in firestopping around such a plug while also affixing the plug in position extending through the wallboard securely as shown in .

While particular embodiments of this invention have been shown in the drawings described above and claimed herein however it will be apparent that many changes may be made in the form arrangement and positioning of the various elements of the combination. In consideration thereof it should be understood that preferred embodiments of this invention disclosed herein are intended to be illustrative only and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

