---

title: Animated messaging
abstract: A method and apparatus that allows an animated interactive talking character to appear on a user's screen when conducting an Instant Messaging (IM) session. The character which is displayed on the user's screen is determined by a profile for the sender of the message. This allows a user to pre-select which character will be displayed on the screen of recipients of the instant messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135740&OS=09135740&RS=09135740
owner: E-CLIPS INTELLIGENT AGENT TECHNOLOGIES PTY. LTD.
number: 09135740
owner_city: Wheelers Hill
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20101021
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 522 809 filed Jan. 31 2005 now abandoned which is the national stage entry of International Application No. PCT AU2003 000393 filed Mar. 31 2003 which claims priority to Australian Provisional Application No. 2002950502 filed Jul. 31 2002. Each of the aforementioned applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of instant messaging. More specifically the present invention relates to a solution that allows for animated instant messaging.

Instant Messaging IM has been growing in popularity in recent years. Commonly utilized IM formats such as Yahoo Messenger created by Yahoo of Sunnyvale Calif. and .Net Messenger created by Microsoft of Redmond Wash. allow a computer user to transmit typed information or other data such as images and videos to other users of the IM service almost instantaneously. Additionally many cellular phones now have text messaging services most utilizing the Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Message Service MMS to allow customers to send and receive text messages.

In both formats it is common to utilize fixed simple diagrams that can be displayed within the space of one or two characters in order to quickly convey common pieces of information. Most commonly these simple diagrams represent emotional states of the user such as happy being indicated by a smiley face. As such these symbols are sometimes known as smileys . In other circles they are also known as emoticons . They need not be limited to emotional states as the simple diagram can represent any type of message such as a happy birthday symbol or the like. The rigidity and lack of choice of these fixed simple diagrams however is a limitation.

The present invention provides a solution that allows an animated interactive talking character to appear on a user s screen when conducting an Instant Messaging IM session. The character which is displayed on the user s screen may be determined by a profile for the sender of the message. This allows a user to pre select which character will be displayed on the screen of recipients of the instant messages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein in the context of a system of computers servers and software. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following detailed description of the present invention is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the present invention will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following detailed description to refer to the same or like parts.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the implementations described herein are shown and described. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with application and business related constraints and that these specific goals will vary from one implementation to another and from one developer to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

The present invention provides a solution that allows an animated interactive talking character to appear on a user s screen when conducting an Instant Messaging IM session. The character which is displayed on the user s screen may be determined by a profile for the sender of the message. This allows a user to pre select which character will be displayed on the screen of recipients of the instant messages.

An embodiment of the present invention is described for use with the Microsoft Messenger. As such it is described as a plug in. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention may be modified for use with other messaging systems.

In an embodiment of the present invention a system is provided that allows users to select from many different animated personalities that will represent them during an IM session. Furthermore an embodiment of the present invention allows users to import images into the animated personality therefore permitting them to utilize characters that may for example have the user s face on it or perhaps the face of the user s favourite celebrity. When the animated character is displayed on the recipient s screen it may appear outside of the typical IM window allowing user s to move the animated character to a convenient portion of the desktop.

In an embodiment of the present invention text to speech software may be utilized to allow the animated character to read instant messages aloud. The animated characters may be programmed such that their lips may move along with the text being read. Furthermore the typical smileys or emoticons may be interpreted by the character and the animation may change based on the corresponding emoticon. For example if the sender of the IM message indicates an angry emoticon the animated character may be displayed as pounding his first against a table.

The user may select a character to act as their personality using an interface. In an embodiment of the present invention the interface may be a web interface such as a web page where the user logs in with an account name and password such as with their IM account name and password and selects from a number of different features. Once the user has selected a character the selection may be transmitted to the server containing the relevant information. A user s preferences may be stored in a database that may be referenced by the IM account name and a user defined password. The database may be used to hold all relevant user information and the associated character data.

The user may download the add in using this interface as well. The add in may connect to the IM messaging system. It may then wait for automation events that signify that an incoming message has arrived. At this point the add in may contact the database to look up which personality or character the message sender has chosen. The connection to the database of stored information may be indirect as it may be retrieved through the server where a dynamically generated query to the database may be created using the incoming request. If no record is found a default personality may be used. The personality may then be loaded onto the user s display.

In an embodiment of the present invention when a user changes their character the new details may be broadcast to all members of their contact lists so that remote copies of the add in can updated the displayed character for the user. However in the current Microsoft functionality there is no way for this broadcast to take place thus in some embodiments the add in must perform the aforementioned request for every incoming message if it wants to ensure that the character displayed is the current one. In another embodiment the request may be performed only sporadically loading the character data from a local cache until such time as it deems an update is necessary perhaps once a day for example .

The character may be used to graphically output using animated and or static images a visual representation of the personality defined by the sender. Additionally pre recorded audio clips may be utilized along with text to speech synthesis in order to provide an audio version or representation of the message. The audio portion may not be limited to merely an audio transcript of the written information. It may for example include sound effects. Perhaps a user wishes to have a symbol indicated anger cause a sound effect of a dog growling to be played by the recipient s computer system.

The add in may parse incoming messages for a predefined list of emoticons and may match them with a predefined list of character animations or audio clips. The add in may then request the specified animation file from the server and play it for the user.

By maintaining the character personality based on the user s log in name the present invention allows the character to be a consistent identify across multiple messaging platforms so a user may log in on their computer at work for example and their character will be present in their messages just as it is from their home computer.

In an embodiment of the present invention an auto responder function may be included to allow users to enable an automated response such as On vacation until May 30th to any received messages. The add in may automatically type and submit the user defined message back to the sender of the incoming message. Each auto responder message may be sent pre appended with a specially formatted string that may be used to prevent auto responders from responding to each other.

In an embodiment of the present invention interactive advertising may be provided through the add in. This advertising may be maintained in a database. it may list all advertisement details. A simple interface may be provided for administrators where they can specify the details of the advertisement. The add in may request an advertisement from the database periodically such as every 30 minutes.

In an embodiment of the present invention a robot may be provided to allow interactive communications between a user and the server. This could be used for example to allow web searching through IM access to database information such as corporate sales records in the case where IM is used at the corporate level or interactive help. is a block diagram illustrating a system utilizing a robot in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The robot may actually be a server application that listens for incoming messages from the messenger . When one of these alerts is received it may store the message in a data structure such as an array which is keyed against the name of the user who sent the alert. The message may then be sent to an artificial intelligence AI application along with any previous messages from the initiating user. This allows the AI to appear to be having an intelligent conversation by referring to things previously spoken about and keeping the conversation in context. Once the message has been processed and a response formed it may be returned to the robot which may forward the response via the messenger to the initiating user.

The web searching function may be implemented by for example having the first six characters of an IM message read google . A keyword to search may be provided after the word google to indicate what to search. The Robot may then take this word and forward it to the Google search engine created by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and request five results. Google may then respond with details to then be deciphered by the robot. This may then be sent back to the initiating user. The sending of the results of the search need not be immediate. It may for example search for 24 hours and then follow up with the results. The robot may also be used for other artificial intelligence applications. It may even be proactive that is initiate communication with a user before the user initiates communication.

In an embodiment of the present invention the add in may display a plurality of animated characters simultaneously if multiple IM sessions are being conducted. The animated characters may be placed anywhere on the display to avoid overlap. This may also be extended to allow a chat session with many different animated characters representing the various senders in the chat session.

In an embodiment of the present invention support may be provided for cellular phone or other non traditional IM environments. SMS and MMS messaging may be provided as an option to subscribers. They may then provide their cellular phone information and set their auto responder to forward mode to indicate that they wish their cell phone to receive their IM messages.

The add in may then detect when a message is received and check to see if the user has set the auto responder to forward mode. If so then the add in may send the message details to the server. The server may then retrieve the mobile phone number. The server may then format the message into SMS or MMS. If MMS is utilized the server may send a thumbnail image representing the user of the incoming message and convert the message from plain text into an audio file. The message may then be forwarded to the communications gateway which would in turn send the message into the public telephone network to be received by the user s mobile telephone.

The technology of the present invention may be modified to support other messaging services such as Yahoo ICQ Trillian etc. However there are interface issues that apply to each of these services. Generally in order to interface with these services an Application Programming Interface API needs to be utilized which exposes the features of the service to outside programmers. Thus in that vain some services do not provide all the needed features in their API or even simply do not provide an API at all. This problem may be overcome using several techniques. In one technique the handles of all conversation windows may be stored. The add in may then scan the contents of the conversation window every 100 ms or the like and compare its contents with the contents of the previous scan. If the contents were different it would indicate a new message has arrived and the difference would be parsed to extract the name of the sender and the contents of the message. These characters may then be presented to the character to visualize for the user.

In addition to a set of predefined characters from which to select in an embodiment of the present invention the user may personalize an IM character. This allows the user to add for example an image of his face on the character. The personalization of the animated characters may operate in the following manner. A user interface may be provided within the application. Upon entering the Personalization menu area the user may be redirected to a section of the host web site. Within this area are instructions advising a user of the processes and a means for a user to link a single image file e.g. photograph and upload this file to the user. The user may be provided with tools to crop the image defining an area over the image that reduces the display area to capture only the external facial and head area. Once the upload of the user s image is complete the user may submit the uploaded image for processing.

Once the image is submitted for processing the images processing engine may use the area defined by the user and crop the image to that size. From this point depending on the image processing engine deployed the extraneous information within the image may be modified leaving a transparent image area surrounding the facial features and head of the subject image. The image may be subsequently processed rendered to give the appearance of it having been extruded creating the appearance of a three dimensional image. Once the rendered image is created the engine may use predetermined parameters to manipulate the extruded image into preconfigured positions and interpolate the movement from the base position to the new position. As a result the image processing engine may output a series of sequential specifically sized images that depict the rendered extruded facial images moving from the base point to the predetermined point.

Using the previously outputted images a further stage of processing may be performed wherein the images are introduced to a three dimensional geometry engine. The base image that contains the rendered facial features may be aligned and mapped to three dimensional geometry representing a character. This alignment of the image occurs to that the processed image exists to cover the face of the character in three dimensional geometry. The other character attributes may be predefined in terms of body shape surface such as clothing and colours and textures. The geometry engine may then be used to render out a total sequence of animated motion and output to a series of still sequential images. These images may conform to the standard required by the next level of image processing. These images may be named and numbered following a strict nomenclature and in accordance with a suitable colour table that enables the next processing step to occur.

The sequential rendered images from the previous step may then be compiled into a single digital file. During this process the images are compiled in such a way as to bring together individual static images into a series of animated sequences. The animated sequences may then be compiled into a proprietary format.

The resultant compilation may deliver several files that describe its contents and deliver connectivity to the user application. The completed files may be deposited on the server. The server may be notified of the newly created character and include the image within the character library assigning the image to the identity of the initial image provider. The user may then be notified by email of their completed character.

Additionally in certain circumstances it may be desirable to define animations to an idle state. It has been discovered that if characters appear on screen without moving for long periods of time it becomes disconcerting to users. At the same time small character movements at frequent random intervals help to enhance the realism of a given characters. As a result when creating a character a specific animation may be assigned to an idle state . There may be for example 3 levels of idle levels 1 2 and 3. The first level may idle a randomly selected movement and play it on the screen. This may occur when the character has not bee used for a short period of time. If no interaction with the character continues the agent application may begin to play animations with an assigned state of idle level 2 animations. Similarly when the time interval of interaction with the user increases idle 3 assigned animations may be displayed to the user and so on.

In an embodiment of the present invention the add in may automatically download an idle animation and display it on the screen when a user has not interacted with the animated character for a predetermined period of time. It may similarly download a next level of idle if there continues to be no interaction.

Commonly instant messages include acronyms for typically used phrases such as LTR for later and A S L for Age Sex Location. A table may be utilized to store these acronyms and their corresponding definitions. When the add in detects such an acronym it may substitute the definition when delivering it to the user via the screen or the text to speech synthesis .

In addition to the text to speech functionality described above the present invention may also include the opposite speech to text synthesis. Through such features the add in may receive voice commands from a user through a microphone and convert the speech to text in the instant message. Certain phrases may then be used for special commands such as sending the instant message.

Now because of the notification process mentioned above whereby program notifies the user program that a request has been processed we were able to build a sliding window or a dynamic array which is simply a code version of a queue. So what would happen is the user program would receive an incoming message and it would be added into this queue rather than immediately requesting an animated character. If this request is the first or only item in the queue it would be automatically popped off and requests an animated character. Once request had been performed it would notify the user program and the user program would if the queue is not empty pop off another request and repeat the cycle over again. By doing this we overcame both of the problems whereby not only can we control the order in which incoming messages are displayed to the user but also prevent the animated characters from talking over one and another.

The second biggest problem to be overcome was how to determine an incoming message had arrived. The solution we decided upon was to have the invention locate the messaging windows and scan their contents at a regular interval say 100 ms . It would then compare the contents of the messaging window with the contents of the window previously. It was determined that if the contents were different then a new message had arrived and that the different between the two would represent this message. It was then into a process of extracting the name of the sender from this message and adding its details to the queue for processing.

While embodiments and applications of this invention have been shown and described it would be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that many more modifications than mentioned above are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The invention therefore is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims.

