---

title: Composite armor including geometric elements for attenuating shock waves
abstract: The present invention's stratified composite material system of armor, as typically embodied, comprises a strike stratum and a backing stratum. The strike stratum includes elastomeric matrix material and inventive ceramic-inclusive elements embedded therein and arranged (e.g., in one or more rows and one or more columns) along a geometric plane corresponding to the front (initial strike) surface of the strike stratum. More rigid than the strike stratum, the backing stratum is constituted by, e.g., metallic (metal or metal alloy) material or fiber-reinforced polymeric matrix material. Some inventive embodiments also comprise a spall-containment stratum fronting the strike stratum. The inventive ceramic-inclusive elements geometrically describe any of various inventive modes, including: first mode, having a flat front face and a textured back face; second mode, having a pyramidal front section and a prismatoidal (especially, prismoidal, e.g., truncated pyramidal or prismatic) body section; hybrid mode, combining features of first and second modes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08096224&OS=08096224&RS=08096224
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08096224
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100325
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 973 990 filing date 5 Oct. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 685 922 issue date 30 Mar. 2010 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Composite Ballistic Armor Having Geometric Ceramic Elements for Shock Wave Attenuation joint inventors Curtis A. Martin Gilbert F. Lee and Jeffry J. Fedderly.

This application is related to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 998 459 filing date 5 Oct. 2007 hereby incorporated herein by reference invention title Ballistic Armor Methods Systems and Materials joint inventors Curtis A. Martin Gilbert F. Lee Jeffrey J. Fedderly David E. Johnson David P. Owen Rodney O. Peterson Philip J. Dudt James A. Zaykoski and Inna G. Talmy.

In addition this application bears some relation to each of the following applications U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 973 999 filing date 5 Oct. 2007 hereby incorporated herein by reference invention title Ballistic Armor Methodology Using Low Density Ceramic Material joint inventors Curtis A. Martin David E. Johnson David P. Owen Rodney O. Peterson and Philip J. Dudt U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 286 285 filing date 26 Sep. 2008 invention title Lightweight Ballistic Armor Including Non Ceramic Infiltrated Reaction Bonded Ceramic Composite Material sole inventor Curtis A. Martin U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 287 161 filing date 6 Oct. 2008 invention title Pressureless Sintering Based Method for Making a Two Phase Ceramic Composite Body joint inventors Curtis A. Martin James A. Zaykoski and Inna G. Talmy.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to armor methodologies that implement ceramic material more particularly to armor methodologies that implement discrete ceramic elements in combination with non ceramic material.

Current military armor applications include land vehicles air vehicles e.g. aircraft and rotorcraft stationary structures and personnel. Other applications of armor systems are less common but may become more prevalent in the future including marine vehicles e.g. ships unmanned air vehicles unmanned marine vehicles and missiles. Generally the weight of an armor system is most critical for personnel personal e.g. helmet or body armor.

Various armor constructions and configurations have been disclosed involving utilization of ceramic material. See e.g. the following U.S. patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference deWitt U.S. Pat. No. 7 067 031 B2 issued 27 Jun. 2006 entitled Process for Making A Ceramic Armor Plate Cohen U.S. Pat. No. 6 860 186 B2 issued 1 Mar. 2005 entitled Ceramic Bodies and Ballistic Armor Incorporating the Same Mohr et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 792 843 B2 issued 21 Sep. 2004 entitled Armor Plating Composite Ghiorse et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 601 497 B2 issued 5 Aug. 2003 entitled Armor with In Plane Confinement of Ceramic Tiles Shih et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 857 B1 issued 18 Mar. 2003 entitled Ceramic Array Armor Lyons U.S. Pat. No. 6 332 390 B1 issued 25 Dec. 2001 entitled Ceramic Tile Armor with Enhanced Joint and Edge Protection Lyons et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 253 655 B1 issued 3 Jul. 2001 entitled Lightweight Armor with a Durable Spall Cover Lyons U.S. Pat. No. 6 009 789 issued 4 Jan. 2000 entitled Ceramic Tile Armor with Enhanced Joint and Edge Protection. 

The aforementioned Shih et al. disclose an armor system that includes an elastomeric matrix material and encapsulated therein plural ceramic tiles arrayed along a common surface and spaced apart from one another. The ceramic tiles disclosed by Shih et al. and others are characterized by a smooth and planar shape. In other words ceramic tiles conventionally used for armor applications are even in thickness.

Ceramic armor material as conventionally embodied often fails when impacted by a projectile e.g. a ballistic body such as small arms fire or an explosive fragment such as shrapnel from a bomb blast . A recognized need in the armor related arts is to improve the capability of a structure or structural component made of ceramic to withstand significant impact.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a ceramic body that is suitable for use in an armor system and that is more impervious to projectile impact than are conventionally known ceramic bodies. A further object of the present invention is to provide an armor system that implements such superiorly impervious ceramic bodies.

A conventional ceramic element can fail for various reasons when subjected to projectile impact. One important failure mechanism involves the reflection of shock waves off of the back face of the conventional ceramic element equivalently expressed the shock waves reflect off of the interface between the conventional ceramic element s back face and the matrix material in which the conventional ceramic element is embedded. Incident shock waves compressive in nature are associated with the impact of the projectile on the ceramic tile. Reflected shock waves tensile in nature are associated with the reflection of the incident shock waves from the rear surface of the conventional ceramic element. The complex interaction of the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves results in internal failure of the conventional ceramic element.

This kind of destructive interaction of incident and reflected shock waves is particularly marked in a conventional ceramic element because of the evenly thick geometry of the conventional ceramic element commonly referred to as a ceramic tile. In a conventional ceramic element the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves each describe approximately planar patterns of propagation. The incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves tend to coincide both spatially and temporally encountering each other so as to be concentrated in one or more approximately planar areas in the interior of the ceramic element. The high energy density characterizing each of these planar levels of shock wave concentration brings about failure of the ceramic material.

The present invention provides new and improved geometric shapes for ceramic elements. Disclosed herein are inventive ceramic elements of various shapes that are suitable for inclusion in armor material systems. Uniquely featured by an inventive ceramic element is a geometrically uneven character that results in attenuation of interaction between the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves within the inventive ceramic element.

A fundamental feature of the present invention regardless of whether according to first mode second mode or hybrid mode inventive practice is the non parallelism of the front and back surfaces or portions thereof of the inventive ceramic element. Inventively prescribed textures and or shapes impart front and back non parallelism to the present invention s ceramic elements. When an inventive ceramic element is impacted by a projectile the non parallel character of the front and back faces relative to each other tends to reduce both the spatial coincidence and the temporal coincidence and hence the deleterious effects of the interactions between the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves.

A conventional ceramic element typically has a flat parallelepiped or plate like shape with smooth and planar front and back faces that are parallel to each other. Upon impact by a projectile upon a conventional ceramic element the resultant incident shock waves commencing at the front face and generally directed toward the back face and the consequent reflected shock waves commencing at the back face and generally directed toward the front face tend to meet each other inside the conventional ceramic element. Because of the relatively great number and intensities of these encounters between incident and reflected shock waves within the conventional ceramic element the probability is relatively high of significant fracture of the conventional ceramic element.

In contrast an inventive ceramic element is characterized by non parallelism of the front and back faces. Upon impact by a projectile upon an inventive ceramic element the resultant incident shock waves commencing at the front face and generally directed toward the back face and the consequent reflected shock waves commencing at the back face and generally directed toward the front face tend to both temporally and spatially diverge and thereby tend to avoid each other inside the conventional ceramic element. The reflected shock waves are incident shock waves that reflect from the back face equivalently expressed the reflected shock waves are incident shock waves that reflect from the interface between the back face and the matrix material in which the inventive ceramic element is embedded. Because of the relatively small number and intensities of these encounters between incident and reflected shock waves within the inventive ceramic element the probability is relatively low of significant fracture of the inventive ceramic element. The sizes and shapes of the inventive ceramic elements are to some extent dictated by the threat s intended to be stopped by the inventive armor system.

By virtue of its unique geometric shape an inventive ceramic element can control the propagation of shock waves associated with impact by a projectile. When an inventive ceramic element is impacted by a projectile the inventive ceramic element controls the propagation of shock waves both within and behind the elastomeric matrix layer in which the inventive ceramic element is embedded. The inventive ceramic element slows down the propagation of shock wave energy so that to the extent that the shock wave energy passes through the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer and reaches the backing layer which is adjacent to and behind the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer the backing layer is less susceptible to tearing or breaking.

Generally speaking a backing in an armor system that is subjected to projectile impact fails upon the occurrence of either or both of the following circumstances i the shock wave energy is so great that the backing cannot strain to a sufficient extent ii the shock wave energy is so rapid e.g. the backing is pushed so quickly that the backing cannot strain at a sufficient rate. When the present invention s composite armor system as typically embodied is subjected to projectile impact the time delay and reduced intensity of the shock waves that reach the backing permit the backing to sufficiently adapt adjust and or recover so to remain intact or at least substantially so.

As typically embodied the present invention s layered composite material system of armor comprises a strike layer and a backing layer. The strike layer includes elastomeric matrix material and plural inventive ceramic inclusive elements. The inventive ceramic inclusive elements are embedded in the elastomeric matrix material and are arranged e.g. in one or more rows and one or more columns along a geometric plane corresponding to the front surface initial strike surface of the strike layer. More rigid than the strike layer the backing layer is made of a rigid material such as a metallic metal or metal alloy material or a fiber reinforced polymeric matrix material. Some inventive embodiments further comprise a spall containment layer fronting the strike layer. The inventive ceramic inclusive elements are geometrically configured in any of three inventive modes. The first inventive mode of ceramic inclusive element has a flat front face and a textured back face. The second inventive mode of ceramic inclusive element has a pyramidal front section and a prismatoidal especially prismoidal e.g. truncated pyramidal or prismatic body section. The hybrid mode of ceramic inclusive element combines the textured back face geometry of the first inventive mode with the combined pyramidal prismatoidal geometry of the second inventive mode.

A prismatoid is a polyhedron all of the vertices of which lie in one of two parallel planes. Types of prismatoids include pyramids and prismoids. Types of prismoids include pyramidal frustums and prisms.

A pyramid is a prismatoid having a polygonal base and at least three triangular faces that meet at a common point vertex or synonymously apex . The apex which is the common point of the triangular faces of a pyramid lies in a first parallel plane of the pyramidal prismatoid the polygonal base lies in a second parallel plane of the pyramidal prismatoid.

A cone is a geometric figure having a round circular elliptical or oval base a vertex situated outside the plane of the base and a continuously curved side narrowing to an apex vertex . Geometrically speaking a cone bears some analogy to a pyramid.

A prismoid is a prismatoid having two polygonal bases that have an equal number of sides. One polygonal bases lies in a first parallel plane of the pyramidal prismatoid the other polygonal base lies in a second parallel plane of the pyramidal prismatoid. The lateral faces of a prismoid are quadrilaterals.

A pyramidal frustum synonymously frustum of a pyramid is a prismoid the two polygonal bases of which are geometrically similar but not geometrically congruent . Equivalently expressed a pyramidal frustum is a truncated pyramid i.e. a pyramid that is cut sliced off below the apex along a plane parallel to the polygonal base of the pyramid. A pyramidal frustum can also be described as a tapered prism i.e. a prism like figure that is tapered gradually decreases in size from one polygonal base to the other polygonal base. The terms truncated pyramid and tapered prism are used synonymously herein with the term pyramidal frustum. A pyramidal frustum has a polygonal base and at least three trapezoidal faces that meet at the other polygonal base.

A conical frustum is a geometric figure that is a truncated cone i.e. a cone that is cut sliced off below the apex along a plane parallel to the round base of the cone. The terms conical frustum frustum of a cone and truncated cone are used synonymously herein. Geometrically speaking a truncated cone bears some analogy to a truncated pyramid.

A prism is a prismoid the two polygonal bases of which are geometrically congruent. In other words the two polygonal bases which can also be referred to as the ends of the prism are exactly the same size and shape and the prism is the identical size and shape all the way through from one polygonal base to the other polygonal base. At least three parallelogram faces join the two polygonal bases.

The term right is used herein to describe terms such as prismatoid prismoid pyramid pyramidal frustum cone conical frustum and prism. The term right when used in such contexts connotes that a prismatoid is characterized or approximately or generally characterized by a geometric axis of symmetry and that the axis is perpendicular to the one polygonal base in the case of a pyramid or the two polygonal bases in the cases of a pyramidal frustum and a prism each of which is a prismoid . All of the faces of a right prism are perpendicular to the polygonal bases.

A regular pyramid is a pyramid in which the polygonal base is a regular polygon. Similarly a regular prismoid e.g. regular pyramidal frustum or regular prism is a prismoid in which the polygonal bases are regular polygons. A regular polygon is a polygon all of the sides of which are equal length and all of the angles of which are equal size. Examples of regular polygons are regular triangles regular quadrilaterals parallelograms or rectangles regular pentagons regular hexagons regular heptagons regular octagons etc.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to through inventive first mode ceramic element includes a front face a back face and four side faces . Front face is referred to herein as the front surface of inventive first mode ceramic element in accordance with how an inventive material armor system that includes plural front faces is typically configured. That is a projectile that penetrates such an inventive material armor system will make initial contact with an inventive ceramic element at its front face in other words front face is the strike face or strike surface. In real world inventive armor applications the projectile threats may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to firearm projectiles such as bullet generically depicted in and or fragmentation projectiles such as fragment generically depicted in .

According to typical first mode inventive practice front face is flat. The term flat as used herein to describe a surface means at least approximately smooth even and level so as to at least substantially lie in a geometric plane. A flat surface manifests itself in two dimensions e.g. length and width. Also according to typical first mode inventive practice as distinguished from front face back face is not flat. A non flat surface manifests itself in three dimensions e.g. length width and height.

As shown in through back face is characterized by a kind of non flatness namely texture. The term textured as used herein to describe a surface means characterized by elevations elevated or raised surface portions and depressions depressed or recessed surface portions . Inventive first mode practice can involve either one dimensional texturing or two dimensional texturing of back face .

Examples of a one dimensionally textured back face are shown in plan view in and . The term one dimensionally textured as used herein to describe a surface means textured so as to form a pattern of elevations and depressions that are linear parallel and varying e.g. alternating such as a pattern of ridges e.g. crests and grooves e.g. channels furrows . A one dimensionally textured face exhibits a two dimensional e.g. height and either length or width architecture. A one dimensionally textured surface is characterized by non uniform height in one of the two in plane dimensions e.g. either the length or the width of the surface.

Examples of a two dimensionally textured back face are shown in plan view in and . The term two dimensionally textured as used herein to describe a surface means textured so as to form a pattern of elevations and depressions that are linearly arrayed in each of two in plane directions e.g. perpendicular in plane directions such as a pattern of protuberances e.g. projections peaks bumps and indentations e.g. valleys dimples pits . A two dimensionally textured face exhibits a three dimensional e.g. height length and width architecture. A two dimensionally textured surface is characterized by non uniform height in both in plane dimensions e.g. both the length and the width of the surface.

The profile views shown in and can each be considered to be representative of either a one dimensionally textured back face or a two dimensionally textured back face . For instance the profile views of and can be understood to represent either a one dimensionally textured back face or a two dimensionally textured back face such as shown in . The profile view of can be understood to represent either a one dimensionally textured back face such as shown in or a two dimensionally textured back face such as shown in . The profile view of can be understood to represent either a one dimensionally textured back face such as shown in or a two dimensionally textured back face such as shown in .

A one dimensionally textured surface describes variation in height in one direction. According to typical inventive practice a one dimensionally textured back face describes a pattern of ridges and grooves that are parallel to and alternate with each other e.g. ridge groove ridge groove ridge groove etc. .

Examples of a one dimensionally textured back face include but are not limited to triangular ridges and triangular grooves such as shown in and truncated triangular ridges having a trapezoidal cross section and truncated triangular grooves having a trapezoidal cross section such as shown in and triangular ridges and truncated triangular grooves having a trapezoidal cross section such as shown in and truncated triangular ridges having a trapezoidal cross section and triangular grooves such as shown in curved curvilinear ridges and curved curvilinear grooves such as shown in .

A two dimensionally textured back face describes variation in height in two perpendicular directions. According to typical inventive practice a two dimensionally textured back face describes an array of protuberances and indentations . For instance many inventive embodiments of two dimensionally textured back face having an arrangement of protuberances and indentations in parallel rows and perpendicular columns i.e. wherein parallel columns are perpendicular to parallel rows thus describing a kind of egg crate pattern.

Examples of a two dimensionally textured back face surface include but are not limited to adjacent rows and columns of pyramidal protuberances each having four triangular sides and a rectangular e.g. square base such as shown in and slightly separated rows and columns of truncated pyramidal protuberances each having four trapezoidal sides a rectangular e.g. square top and a rectangular e.g. square base such as shown in and slightly separated rows and columns of pyramidal protuberances each having four triangular sides and a rectangular e.g. square base such as shown in and adjacent rows and columns of truncated pyramidal protuberances each having four trapezoidal sides a rectangular e.g. square top and a rectangular e.g. square base such as shown in rows and columns of curved curvilinear protuberances such as shown in .

Both one dimensionally textured back faces and two dimensionally textured back faces are characterized by elevated surface areas and depressed surface areas. The present invention s one dimensionally textured back faces typically have ridges and grooves . The present invention s two dimensionally textured back faces typically have protuberances and indentations . Inventive practice lends itself to wide latitude in configuring textured back faces and .

Note for instance the diverse possible shapes of protuberances and indentations in an inventive two dimensionally textured back faces such as exemplified in and quadrilateral pyramid with four triangular sides truncated quadrilateral pyramid with four trapezoidal sides triangular pyramid with three triangular sides truncated triangular pyramid with three trapezoidal sides truncated hexagonal pyramid with six trapezoidal sides pyramid with six triangular sides . Each of these basically pyramidal shapes can be conceived as representing either a protuberance or an indentation .

Inventive first mode practice usually provides an inventive ceramic element having a flat front face and a textured back face corresponding to respective parallel geometric planes. As illustrated in flat front face is situated in a geometric plane p. Textured back face is non flat and hence strictly speaking cannot be considered to be situated in a geometric plane however textured back face can be understood to describe a pattern of elevated and depressed surface areas in which the most depressed surface areas are situated in a geometric plane p or in which the most elevated surface areas are situated in a geometric plane p. As shown in geometric planes p p and pare parallel to one another.

Although typical inventive practice provides for flatness of front face and texturing of back face the texturing one dimensional texturing and or two dimensional texturing of both front face and back face such as depicted in may serve to enhance the benefits of inventive practice in terms of the complex interactions of incident shock waves and reflected shock waves such as discussed hereinbelow with reference to through .

The present invention s back face is normally embodied as having a regular pattern of elevations and depressions regardless of whether the texture is one dimensional or two dimensional along the geometric plane of back face . Shown in is an exception to the usual inventive first mode practice of regularity of texturing of back face . The back face shown in manifests irregularity e.g. randomness or fractalness of its texturing as there is no apparent configurative order to the elevated areas and the depressed areas. The irregularity illustrated in can be understood to be representative of either two dimensional texturing or three dimensional texturing.

According to some inventive embodiments the imparting of a fractal character to the texturing of back face may prove particularly propitious in furthering the shock wave ameliorative qualities of inventive practice. Fractal mathematics is well known and various applications thereof have been disclosed in the public literature. See e.g. Gipple et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 663 803 B1 issued 16 Dec. 2003 entitled Fabrication of a Fractally Attributively Delamination Resistive Composite Structure incorporated herein by reference and Gipple et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 333 092 B1 issued 25 Dec. 2001 entitled Fractal Interfacial Enhancement of Composite Delamination Resistance incorporated herein by reference which disclose composite laminate structures characterized by a fractal interfacial profile.

As exemplified in and inventive first mode ceramic element has side faces viz. and . Generally the geometric characteristics of the side faces are less important to inventive first mode practice than are the geometric characteristics of the front and back faces. According to frequent inventive first mode practice the opposite side faces of an inventive first mode ceramic element are flat and parallel to each other the inventive first mode ceramic element thus describing a rectangular either square or non square plan form.

Nevertheless depending on the inventive embodiment an inventive first mode ceramic element can describe practically any plan form curved and or curvilinear and or rectilinear for instance triangle non rectangular quadrilateral e.g. trapezoid or parallelogram polygon having five sides or greater circle oval e.g. ellipse or ellipsoid or irregular oval or some combination thereof. The plan form of an inventive first mode ceramic element is secondary to its elevation form which entails the nature and degree of parallelism between its front face and its back face and which represents the primary inventive focus that improves the physical shock wave mechanism concomitant impacting thereof by a projectile such as a bullet missile or explosive fragment.

There is considerable variability in inventive first mode practice as to how a textured back face can be configured in terms of the sizes shapes and relationships e.g. separations of the elevated surface areas and depressed surface areas. Inventive first mode practice admits of a variety of textures of inventive back face both one dimensionally textured back face and two dimensionally textured back face . Although two dimensionally textured back face is variously shown by way of example in and to be regularly configured in horizontal and vertical rows and columns of elevated surface areas and depressed surface areas inventive practice is possible for example in which two dimensionally textured back face is regularly configured in diagonal or staggered rows and columns of elevated surface areas and depressed surface areas or in which two dimensionally textured back face is irregularly configured with elevated surface areas and depressed surface areas .

Some inventive embodiments combine indicia of one dimensional and two dimensional texturing of back face for instance by providing at least a first surface portion representing one dimensionally textured back face and at least a second surface portion representing two dimensionally textured back face . The ordinarily skilled artisan who reads the instant disclosure will recognize that the present invention s textured back face can be embodied as having any of multifarious textures other than those that are illustrated herein by way of example.

A practitioner of the present invention should base his her selection of the values of the various geometric parameters including scale shape and spacing of the texture of back face on consideration of the following factors among others the modulus of the material the speed of the shock wave and the thickness of the inventive ceramic element . The texture of back face is preferably designed such that the reflections of the incident shock waves will be disrupted because of the locally angled or curved surfaces and such that the timings of the reflections will be dispersed because the incident shock waves will encounter back face at locally different times as they progress through the textured region of back face . The overall result when an inventively configured ceramic element is impacted by a projectile is a damping effect on the incident and reflected shock waves.

Reference is now made to through which are illustrative by way of example of inventive second mode practice through and and inventive hybrid mode practice and . A principle shared by first mode second mode and hybrid mode inventive practice is that the inventive geometric shape of a ceramic element can affect the propagation and interaction of the shock waves that enter the ceramic element at the front face and are reflected off of the back face or equivalently expressed off of the interface between the back face and the adjacent elastomeric matrix material .

Inventive first mode ceramic elements are frequently practiced so that the inventive ceramic elements are large enough that the inventive texturing of back face imparts significant benefit in terms of determining shock wave propagation and interaction concomitant projectile impact. In contrast inventive second mode ceramic elements are frequently practiced so that the inventive ceramic elements are relatively small and are closely arranged so as to be tantamount to larger ceramic elements having qualities akin to those of inventive first mode ceramic elements .

The shock wave attenuating attributes of an inventive second mode ceramic element array tend to be furthered when the inventive second mode ceramic elements are more tightly packed together e.g. closely or contiguously arranged. The terms areal density and areal packing density as used synonymously herein denote mass per unit area such as measured in the geometric plane of the front surface of an inventive composite armor system. The areal packing density of the inventive second mode ceramic elements should preferably be as complete as possible minimizing small gaps between the inventive second mode ceramic elements .

As shown in through inventive second mode ceramic element has two geometric polyhedral components viz. a pyramidal front section and a tapered prismatic body section . Pyramidal front which is the strike section consists of at least three triangular pyramidal faces . Tapered prismatic body consists of a polygonal back face having at least three sides and at least three quadrilateral body faces . Hence inventive second mode ceramic element has at least seven faces namely at least three pyramidal faces at least three body faces and a polygonal back face . Pyramidal faces share a common vertex apex A. Pyramidal front section and tapered prismatic body section share a polygonal planar junction .

The body section of an inventive second mode or inventive hybrid mode ceramic element has the geometric shape of a prismatoid having two parallel polygonal bases. Frequent inventive practice provides for second mode or hybrid mode ceramic elements having the geometric shape of a tapered prism synonymously referred to herein as a truncated pyramid or a pyramidal frustum . Inventive practice sometimes provides for second mode or hybrid mode ceramic elements having the geometric shape of a prism which is not tapered. A prism is a polyhedron having two congruent parallel opposite polygonal bases and at least three parallelogram lateral faces. The lateral faces are formed by parallel straight lines connecting corresponding vertices of the bases. A tapered prism is a polyhedron having two similar non congruent parallel opposite polygonal bases and at least three trapezoidal lateral faces. The lateral faces are formed by non parallel straight lines connecting corresponding vertices of the bases. Otherwise expressed a tapered prism is a prism that is gradually narrower or thinner toward one of the two bases.

The inventive second mode ceramic element depicted in side view in can be considered to be representative of either a triangular three sided variety tapered body element having seven total faces consisting of a triangular back face three body faces and three pyramidal faces or a quadrilateral four sided variety tapered body element having nine total faces consisting of a quadrilateral back face four body faces and four pyramidal faces . Pyramidal front and tapered prismatic body adjoin at a polygonal junction which lies in a geometric plane pthat is parallel to the geometric plane pin which lies the polygonal back face .

Inventive ceramic element is frequently embodied so as to be characterized by geometrical symmetry for instance axial symmetry with respect to a geometric axis a or bilateral symmetry with respect to a geometric plane passing through geometric axis a . A symmetrically configured inventive tapered body ceramic element is a regular polyhedral shape characterized by axial or bilateral symmetry with respect to a geometric axis or plane passing through apex A. Nevertheless symmetrical geometry is not necessary to inventive practice of ceramic element . For instance the pyramidal front can have unequal pyramidal faces irregularly arranged so that apex A is off center e.g. skewed with respect to an imaginary central axis that extends through the tapered prismatic body section .

As shown in each body face is disposed at the same angle with respect to back geometric plane p and at the same angle with respect to front geometric plane p. Angle is greater than ninety degrees. Angle is less than ninety degrees. The sum of angle plus angle is one hundred eighty degrees. According to usual inventive practice of tapered body ceramic element it is characterized by an angle that is in the range greater than ninety degrees and less than or equal to about one hundred fifty degrees an angle that is in the range greater than or equal to about thirty degrees and less than ninety degrees.

Multifarious shapes of inventive tapered body ceramic element are possible in inventive practice of which through illustrate but of few. and each show an inventive tapered body ceramic element of the three sided variety. and each show an inventive tapered body ceramic element of the four sided variety. shows an inventive tapered body ceramic element of the six sided variety. shows an inventive tapered body ceramic element of the eight sided variety. Note that inventive practice of a tapered body ceramic element admits of wide variability in sizes shapes configurations and dimensions e.g. lengths widths and heights of pyramidal front section and of tapered prismatic body section .

Varieties and shapes differ among the inventive tapered body ceramic elements depicted in through but each of these examples is characterized by regularity in the respects that geometric plane p in which lies the polygonal junction is parallel to geometric plane p in which lies the polygonal back face inventive tapered body ceramic element is symmetrical about a geometric axis a and polygonal junction is geometrically similar to but larger than polygonal back face . Although typical inventive practice provides for a regular character of an inventive tapered body ceramic element inventive practice is possible whereby an inventive tapered body ceramic element has an irregular character in one or more ways contrary to the above noted aspects.

The inventive hybrid mode ceramic element depicted in side view in can be considered to be representative of either a triangular three sided variety tapered body element having seven total faces consisting of a triangular textured back face three body faces and three pyramidal faces or a quadrilateral four sided variety tapered body element having nine total faces consisting of a quadrilateral textured back face four body faces and four pyramidal faces . Hybrid mode inventive practice combines features of first mode and second mode inventive practice. Inventive hybrid mode ceramic element shown in has essentially the same overall geometric shape as has inventive second mode ceramic element shown in the only difference being that inventive hybrid mode ceramic element has a textured back face whereas inventive second mode ceramic element has a non textured flat back face .

The textured back face of inventive hybrid mode ceramic element is practically speaking the same textured surface as the textured back face of inventive first mode ceramic element which is exemplified in through that is back face and back face lend themselves to the same wide range of possibilities of textural configurations. The various back face textures shown in through are also illustrative by way of example of back face textures. Like back face which can be a one dimensionally textured back face and or a two dimensionally textured back face back face can be either one dimensionally textured or two dimensionally textured or both one dimensionally and two dimensionally textured.

Inventive second mode ceramic element shown in and inventive hybrid mode ceramic element shown in share the characteristic of rectangularity. As shown in and respectively inventive tapered body second mode ceramic element and inventive tapered body hybrid mode ceramic element are each characterized by an obtuse angle and an acute angle . In contrast as shown in and respectively inventive straight body second mode ceramic element and inventive straight body hybrid mode ceramic element are each characterized by a right angle and a right angle . Otherwise expressed according to inventive straight body practice 90 polygonal junction is equal to the perimeter of back face . According to inventive tapered body practice 90 and 

As distinguished from inventive tapered body practice inventive invertedly tapered body practice provides for angle greater than ninety degrees and angle less than ninety degrees. Inventive invertedly tapered body second mode or third mode practice is exemplified by . The inventive invertedly tapered second mode ceramic element shown in is characterized by an acute angle and an obtuse angle i.e. 90 polygonal junction is smaller than the perimeter of back face . The inventive ceramic element is shown in to be an inventive invertedly tapered second mode ceramic element having a flat back face and is readily envisioned to be an inventive invertedly tapered hybrid mode ceramic element having a textured back face.

As distinguished from a tapered prismatic body a straight non tapered prismatic body is purely prismatic. The tapered prismatic body of typical inventive tapered body practice consists of a polygonal back face or and at least three trapezoidal body faces . The straight non tapered prismatic body of typical inventive straight body practice consists of a polygonal back face or and at least three rectangular body faces . Frequent inventive practice provides for a geometric axis of symmetry e.g. rotational or lateral symmetry such as axis a shown in for inventive second mode ceramic elements and as well as for inventive third mode ceramic elements and .

Inventive second mode elements and and inventive hybrid mode elements and each have a rectilinear character. In contrast with reference to through inventive second mode elements and and inventive hybrid mode elements and each have a curved or curvilinear character. Second mode inventive ceramic elements and each have a conical front section . Inventive ceramic elements and each have a spherical or spheroidal front section . through each show a truncated conical body section . through each show a cylindrical body section . Flat untextured back face and textured back face are each round such as circular or oval e.g. elliptical ellipsoidal or irregularly oval . Like their rectilinear counterparts in accordance with the present invention curved curvilinear ceramic elements are frequently practiced so as to exhibit axial symmetry.

With reference to through inventive ceramic elements of first mode and or second mode and or hybrid mode in any combination are suitable for inclusion in a composite armor system that includes a frontal layer of elastic e.g. viscoelastic matrix material and a backing layer of rigid stiff material. More specifically according to typical inventive practice inventive ceramic elements are embedded in at least one elastic matrix material layer of an inventive composite plural layer material armor system . The inventive ceramic elements are arranged along a geometric plane corresponding to the front initial strike surface of the frontal layer. The arrayal of the inventive ceramic elements can vary in particular depending on the inventive embodiment the inventive ceramic elements can be arranged in one or more rows and in one or more columns along the defining geometric plane. The inventive ceramic elements are coupled to the backing layer e.g. adhered to the backing layer via the elastic e.g. elastomeric matrix material and or a different bonding material so that the corresponding back faces are adjacent to the backing layer. through are diagrammatic in nature and are not intended to suggest limitation or preference in terms of thicknesses of layers or numbers of ceramic elements or positions of ceramic elements or distances between ceramic elements.

According to typical inventive practice elastic matrix material is an elastomeric material such as a thermoset elastomer. The terms elastomer and elastomeric as used herein broadly refer to any material that is both polymeric and elastic and are considered to include both natural e.g. natural rubber and synthetic e.g. thermoset or thermoplastic materials. Polyurethane and polyurea are two thermoset elastomers that will frequently be suitable for constituting the elastomeric matrix material in inventive practice as polyurethane and polyurea are each characterized by high elongation to failure strain to failure .

Illustrated in is an inventive three layer material armor system including a rigid backing layer a ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer and a debris containment layer also referred to herein as a spall containment layer or a spall cover . Backing layer and spall containment layer are each composed of a rigid material such as a fiber reinforced polymer matrix material or a metallic metal or metal alloy material e.g. steel titanium aluminum that is appropriate to the contemplated armor application s . Ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer is composed of an elastic e.g. elastomeric matrix material and plural inventive first mode ceramic elements which are embedded in the elastic e.g. elastomeric matrix material .

Generally in inventive practice the two essential layers of a inventive plural layer armor system are the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer and the backing layer in addition thereto an inventive armor system can be embodied to include one or practically any plural number of additional layers or sub layers of practically any material and configurational description for instance metallic fiber reinforced polymer or ceramic embedded polymer. The inventive two layer material armor system shown in includes a rigid backing layer and a ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer but does not include a spall containment layer . Spall containment layer which serves a purpose of containing flying debris spall that results from impact of a projectile upon the inventive material system is includable or excludable in the inventive material system depending on the contemplated application s . The inventive three layer material armor system depicted in includes a rigid backing layer a ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer and a spall containment layer . The inventive two layer material armor system shown in includes a backing layer and a ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer but does not include a spall containment layer . Regardless of whether or not an inventive plural layer material armor system includes a spall containment layer the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material may be appropriately described as the front layer of inventive plural layer material armor system as the spall containment layer if included therein serves a limited function and essentially the projectile initial strikes the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material .

As shown in and the inventive first mode ceramic elements are arrayed so that the corresponding flat front faces are at least approximately situated in the same first geometric plane the corresponding textured back faces are generally or essentially situated in the same second geometric plane the first geometric plane and the second geometric plane are at least approximately parallel to each other. As shown in and the inventive second mode ceramic elements are arrayed so that the corresponding apexes are at least approximately situated in the same first geometric plane the corresponding flat back faces are at least approximately situated in the same second geometric plane the corresponding polygonal junctions are at least approximately situated in the same third geometric plane the first geometric plane the second geometric plane and the third geometric plane are at least approximately parallel to each other. If the inventive ceramic elements depicted in and are conceived to be inventive hybrid mode ceramic elements the corresponding textured back faces are generally or essentially situated in the same second geometric plane.

Accordingly as shown in through the inventive ceramic elements are arrayed in a single geometric plane. For instance as shown in ceramic elements of inventive armor system are arranged along a geometric plane p which corresponds to the front initial strike surface of spall containment layer . More specifically geometric plane p described by the respective front faces of the ceramic elements geometric plane p described by the front surface of spall containment layer geometric plane p described by the back surface of spall containment layer and by the front surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer geometric plane P described by the back surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer and by the front surface of backing layer and geometric plane p described by the back surface of backing layer are parallel to each other.

The sole difference between the inventive three layer material armor system shown in and the inventive three layer material armor system shown in resides in the inventive ceramic elements that are embedded in the elastic matrix material of the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer . Similarly the sole difference between the inventive two layer material armor system shown in and the inventive two layer material armor system shown in resides in the inventive ceramic elements that are embedded in the elastic matrix material of the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer . As shown in and plural inventive first mode ceramic elements are embedded in the elastic matrix material thereby forming ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer . As shown in and plural inventive second mode ceramic elements are embedded in the elastic matrix material thereby forming ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer .

The inventive second mode ceramic elements shown in and are shown spaced somewhat apart for illustrative purposes. According to frequent inventive practice the rectilinear geometric character of inventive second mode ceramic elements straight sided and straight edged facilitates the tight packing of the inventive second mode ceramic elements . This favorable disposition to close arrangement can be availed of regardless of whether inventive second mode ceramic elements are triangular rectangular pentagonal hexagonal etc. in nature. The flatness of the back face fosters a favorable tendency toward maximization of load transfer to the backing . Closely spaced arrayal of inventive second mode ceramic elements is concomitant with greater areal coverage thus permitting the tailoring of armor performance to defeat threatened projectiles e.g. large fragments large ball rounds smaller armor piercing rounds while minimizing weight. Angles and of the inventive second mode ceramic elements can be selected in consideration of desired distances between the inventive second mode ceramic elements thus controlling the areal coverage of the array of the inventive second mode ceramic elements For instance in view of the anticipated threats the importance of adjusting the total areal density of the inventive second mode ceramic elements can be balanced against the importance of providing penetration resistance to small caliber armor piercing rounds.

Upon subjection of an inventive composite material armor system to impact by a projectile such as projectile shown in and the various components of the inventive material armor system serve corresponding functions as elaborated upon in the following three paragraphs.

As previously pointed out herein the spall containment layer serves to contain flying debris e.g. fragments of the projectile and or the ceramic material.

The inventive ceramic element that is contacted by the projectile serves to blunt and or break up the projectile. Moreover as noted hereinabove and as further described hereinbelow the contacted inventive ceramic element effects a physical mechanism that attenuates the shock waves internal to the inventive ceramic element thereby reducing the extent of its fracture and improving its capability of blunting and or breaking up the projectile. Furthermore if and to the extent that the contacted inventive ceramic element fractures it absorbs energy. If more than one inventive ceramic element is contacted by the projectile each inventive ceramic element may behave similarly.

The elastic e.g. elastomeric matrix material absorbs energy and constrains the fractured inventive ceramic element s thereby imparting some continued partial effectiveness of the fractured ceramic element s . In addition the elastic matrix material diffuses the shock resulting from the impact thereby preventing the inventive ceramic elements near the impact area from fracturing in this manner the elastic matrix material preserves the ballistic capability of neighboring ceramic material for future impacts i.e. a multi hit capability.

The backing serves as a catcher to stop debris such as the broken pieces of the projectile and or the ceramic material.

The elastic matrix material affords benefits other than those associated with projectile impact such as noted hereinabove. The elastic matrix material can serve as an adhesive for assembly of an inventive composite armor system and due to its placement at the front thereof can serve to protect the inventive ceramic elements from accidental damage during service e.g. maintenance or repair .

The coupling of the inventive ceramic elements to the backing layer is generally an important aspect of inventive practice. In inventive first mode ceramic element practice the textured back face of an inventive first mode ceramic element may not adhere to backing as well as desired if a conventional unadulterated polymeric material e.g. polyurethane or polyurea or some combination thereof is used as the elastomeric matrix material of the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer .

Instead of a conventional unadulterated polymeric material it may be advantageous to employ as the elastomeric matrix material a filled polymeric material that incorporates metal filler particles and or ceramic filler particles. Such a particle filled elastomeric matrix material would represent a bonding material with higher stiffness acoustic impedance than would be necessary with flat back faces such as those characterizing conventional ceramic elements and such as those characterizing inventive second mode ceramic elements .

Additionally or alternatively a leveling fill material such as a metallic material e.g. aluminum shown in in the back face texture of the topmost inventive first mode ceramic element can be implemented to fill in the depressed areas of a textured back surface thereby creating in practical effect a surface evenness that is more conducive to adherence to a backing . For instance a metal can be cast into the textured back face surface to accomplish such levelness. Such an effectively flattened textured surface would more readily bond with a backing with the use of more commonly used polymers.

With reference to in conventional ceramic elements the propagation and interaction of the incident shock waves c and reflected shock waves t are destructive in terms of fracture of the conventional ceramic elements . As shown in conventional ceramic element which has flat and parallel front and back faces and respectively is impacted by a projectile . Let us assume that rear face forms an interface with a matrix material in which conventional ceramic element is embedded. A near planar incident compressive stress shock wave results from the contact of the projectile with the conventional ceramic element phase I at its front face . As the projectile penetrates the conventional ceramic element more near planar incident shock waves are generated and near planar reflected tensile stress shock waves are reflected from the rear face of the conventional ceramic element phase II . The complex interaction of the near planar incident shock waves and the near planar reflected shock waves causes internal failure of conventional ceramic element in particular due to the near planar nature of both the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves the complex interactions are characterized by high energy densities and material failure results phase III .

Reference is now made to through which each illustrate the propagation and interaction of the incident shock waves c and reflect shock waves t occurring internal to an inventive ceramic element that is impacted by a projectile e.g. bullet or fragment . The propagation and interaction of the incident shock waves c and reflected shock waves t are considerably less destructive in inventive ceramic elements with fracture being significantly reduced vis vis conventional ceramic elements.

As shown in inventive first mode ceramic element is impacted by a projectile . Let us assume that textured back face forms an interface with a matrix material in which first mode ceramic element is embedded. A near planar incident compressive stress shock wave results from the contact of the projectile with the inventive first mode ceramic element at its front face phase I . As the projectile penetrates the inventive first mode ceramic element more near planar incident shock waves are generated and non planar reflected tensile stress shock waves are reflected from the rear face of the inventive first mode ceramic element phase II . The reflected shock waves are non planar for instance characterized by a jagged profile as shown in in correspondence with the non planar character of textured back face . The complex interaction of the near planar incident shock waves and the non planar reflected shock waves is less likely to cause internal failure of inventive first mode ceramic element . Rather the textured back face causes the reflected shock waves to be dispersed in both time and space therefore due to the near planar nature of the incident shock waves but the non planar nature of the reflected shock waves the complex interactions are characterized by lower energy densities and the material is less likely to fail phase III .

As shown in inventive second mode ceramic element is impacted by a projectile . Let us assume that flat back face forms an interface with a matrix material in which second mode ceramic element is embedded. The non flat pyramidal front section of inventive second mode ceramic element serves to induce yaw into the trajectory of projectile thereby increasing the interaction of projectile with the materials of the inventive armor system that contains inventive second mode ceramic element and increasing the probability of defeat of projectile . Further the non parallel surfaces of inventive second mode ceramic element reduce the devastating effects of reflected shock waves within the inventive second mode ceramic element after impact by projectile . Incident shock waves are initially skewed in accordance with the slanted geometry of the pyramidal front section . Then the incident shock waves are reflected off of both the body faces and the back face . The reflected shock waves are skewed in accordance with the slanted geometry of tapered prismatic body section . The complex interaction of the refractively skewed incident shock waves and the reflectively skewed reflected shock waves is less likely to cause internal failure of inventive first mode ceramic element . The complex interactions are characterized by lower energy densities because of the divergent times and directions of the incident shock waves and the reflected shock waves the material is less likely to fail.

As shown in inventive hybrid mode ceramic element is impacted by a projectile . Let us assume that textured back face forms an interface with a matrix material in which hybrid mode ceramic element is embedded. Similarly as illustrated in for inventive second mode ceramic element the non flat pyramidal front section of inventive hybrid mode ceramic element serves to induce yaw into the trajectory of projectile thereby increasing the interaction of projectile with the materials of the inventive armor system that contains inventive hybrid mode ceramic element and increasing the probability of defeat of projectile . In a manner combining principles illustrated in for inventive first mode ceramic element and for inventive second mode ceramic element the non parallel surfaces of inventive hybrid mode ceramic element reduce the devastating effects of reflected shock waves within the inventive hybrid mode ceramic element after impact by projectile . The reflected shock waves are not only skewed in accordance with the slanted geometry of tapered prismatic body section but are also dispersed in accordance with the texture of back face . The complex interactions are characterized by lower energy densities because of the divergent times and directions of the refractively skewed incident shock waves and the reflectively skewed and reflectively dispersed reflected shock waves the material is less likely to fail.

In accordance with typical inventive composite armor systems such as shown in through plural inventive ceramic elements are embedded in elastomeric matrix material thereby forming a ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer which is situated on a backing layer . The elastomeric matrix material depicted in through is entirely of the same composition. The present inventors have conceived as an alternative to inventive armor systems having a homogenous ceramic embedded polymeric matrix layer such as shown in through inventive armor systems having a heterogeneous ceramic embedded polymeric matrix layer such as shown in through .

With reference to through inventive armor system can be embodied so as to contain practically any manner of ceramic elements inventive or conventional or both. through are diagrammatic in nature and are not intended to suggest limitation or preference in terms of thicknesses of layers or numbers of ceramic elements or positions of ceramic elements or distances between ceramic elements. Inventive plural layer composite armor systems shown in through uniquely feature a ceramic embedded heterogeneous polymeric matrix layer which is characterized by three distinct sections regions zones referred to herein as sub layers. In addition inventive plural layer composite armor systems shown in and uniquely feature inventive ceramic elements and inventive ceramic elements respectively.

Ceramic embedded heterogeneous polymeric matrix layer includes front most sub layer intermediate sub layer and backmost sub layer . Like the inventive armor systems shown in through inventive armor systems include a rigid backing layer . Optionally inventive armor system can be embodied to further include in front of and adjacent to front most sub layer a spall covering such as spall containment layer shown in and .

The sub layers meet different performance requirements in furtherance of optimum performance of the armor system. Optimum performance is inventively obtained using polymeric materials exhibiting different properties in each of the three zones. The properties are engineered to manage the shock wave energy so as to reduce the damage in the vicinity of an impacted ceramic element and so as to enhance the performance of the impacted ceramic element.

The front most strike face sub layer sub layer consists of polymeric material . Polymeric material serves to constrain the ceramic elements contain spall and limit lateral transmission of shock waves from ceramic elements to other nearby ceramic elements. An example of a suitable polymeric material for front most sub layer is a high elongation polyurea.

Behind front most sub layer is the intermediate sub layer sub layer which is the ceramic embedded polymeric matrix sub layer. Intermediate sub layer encompasses polymeric matrix material and the ceramic elements which are depicted as conventional ceramic elements in inventive first mode ceramic elements in and inventive second mode ceramic elements in . The ceramic elements are embedded in polymeric matrix material which therefore occupies the spaces between the ceramic elements. The ceramic elements can be arrayed in one or more rows and one or more columns along a geometric plane corresponding to the front initial strike surface of the front most sub layer . Polymeric matrix material serves to constrain the ceramic elements and to moderate the transmission of shock waves from ceramic elements to and into the neighboring ceramic elements. An example of a suitable polymeric material for intermediate sub layer is an elastomer filled with hollow microspheres such as microballoons shown in . Suitable material compositions of the hollow microspheres include glass carbon and or acrylic. The hollow microspheres will crush under shock conditions thereby limiting transmission of the shock waves.

In intermediate sub layer the interaction of the shock waves with the ceramic polymer interfaces should be controlled precisely in order to balance transmission of shock waves into neighboring ceramic elements essentially in the following manner. On the one hand the transmission of shock waves from impacted ceramic elements to proximate ceramic elements should be at energy levels sufficiently low to prevent damage to the proximate ceramic elements. On the other hand the shock wave energy emanating from impacted ceramic elements should be as high as possible in order to disperse this impact energy over as large an area as possible.

Behind intermediate sub layer is the backmost sub layer sub layer . Backmost sub layer consists of polymeric material and represents the region between the ceramic elements and the backing . It is preferable that the acoustic impedance of polymeric material be lower than that of the ceramic material and higher than that of the backing material with a view toward permitting as much shock wave energy as possible to leave the ceramic elements without reflecting off of their back faces and causing destruction of the ceramic elements. An example of a suitable polymeric material for backmost sub layer is a higher modulus elastomer filled with solid particles e.g. metal filler particles and or ceramic filler particles such as shown in .

The solid particulate quality of polymeric material shown in enhances coupling of the ceramic elements to the backing. This is particularly propitious when the ceramic elements are inventive first mode ceramic elements which have a textured back face . Generally an adulterated particle filled polymeric material would represent a bonding material characterized by higher stiffness acoustic impedance than would an unadulterated un filled polymeric material.

Inventive plural layer armor systems are not necessarily embodied so as to have an entirely linear straight character such as illustrated in through and through . Inventive practice encompasses inventive plural layer armor systems that are partially or entirely curved in order to fit the contour or curvature of an entity such as a land vehicle or a ship. Now referring to inventive plural layer armor systems can be embodied so as to have a curved or curvilinear character in one direction or plural directions or all directions. is intended to be illustrative of curvature of an inventive armor system but is not intended to suggest any particular application thereof. Similarly as exhibited by the straight geometric planes shown in the curved geometric planes shown in are parallel to each other.

As illustrated in curved geometric plane p described by the respective front faces of the ceramic elements curved geometric plane p described by the front surface of spall containment layer curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of spall containment layer and by the front surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer and by the front surface of backing layer and curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of backing layer are parallel to each other. Curved geometric plane pis described in an approximative manner by the front faces of the ceramic elements . The straight front faces of ceramic elements tend to be parallel to the straight geometric tangents of the corresponding curved portions of the other curved geometric planes e.g. curved geometric plane p.

The term geometric plane as used herein specifically to indicate geometries relating to armor system layering e.g. surfaces or interfaces of layers or ceramic inclusive element arrayal e.g. front points or front surfaces of ceramic inclusive elements of an array in the context of inventive practice of plural layer armor systems broadly refers to a geometric plane that is straight in all directions or that is at least partially curved in at least one direction. Otherwise expressed a geometric plane in this specialized usage of the term can be characterized by complete linearity or by some degree of linearity and some degree of curvilinearity or by complete curvilinearity. Regardless of the degree of curvature if any of an inventive armor system its system layering and ceramic inclusive element arrayal are configured so as to generally manifest parallelness which can be expressed in terms of corresponding geometric planes.

Certain ceramic materials are known in the art to be suitable for use in armor applications. These conventional armor ceramics which include aluminum oxide commonly called alumina silicon carbide boron carbide and titanium carbide have been developed over the last thirty years or so and represent the current state of the art. Inventive ceramic elements and can each be made of any one or any combination of these tried and true conventional ceramic armor materials with ceramic material preferences varying in accordance with particular inventive embodiments and applications. As alternatives to conventional ceramic materials new materials may be suitable and even advantageous for some embodiments of the present invention. Inventive practice such as of inventive armor systems and lends itself to use of diverse ceramic inclusive materials.

One possibility for inventive practice of the inventive geometric ceramic elements as an alternative to the above mentioned conventional ceramic materials is an aluminosilicate porcelain material. One of the present inventors Curtis A. Martin along with some colleagues of his has investigated the possibility of using aluminosilicate porcelain as a ceramic armor material. Heretofore in conventional practice the above noted conventional pure ceramic materials aluminum oxide silicon carbide boron carbide titanium carbide etc. have been relied upon for armor applications. Use of aluminosilicate porcelain is not known in the armor related arts as it has always been dismissed as an insufficiently strong ceramic material for use in armor applications.

Aluminosilicate porcelain has a density of 2.4 g cm significantly less than the densities of silicon carbide 3.2 g cm 90 alumina high alumina porcelain 3.6 g cm 99 alumina 3.95 g cm and titanium diboride 4.5 g cm . Because it is advantageous in terms of weight cost and availability present inventor Martin believes that aluminosilicate porcelain may be worthy of consideration generally as an alternative ceramic armor material to the conventional ones.

Present inventor Martin and colleagues have demonstrated that aluminosilicate porcelain elements can be efficaciously implemented as embedded in an elastomeric layer of a plural layer composite armor material system. They assembled four experimental armor systems in which conventionally shaped rectangular flat plate tiles were embedded in elastomeric matrix material adjacent to steel rolled homogeneous armor or RHA backing material. Each armor system was tested under identical circumstances in a ballistic range using a 20 mm fragment simulating projectile. The four armor systems were made so as to be characterized by equal areal densities of the respective ceramic elements wherein areal density was defined as mass per unit area measured in the frontal geometric plane of the armor system.

In the first armor system aluminosilicate porcelain tiles arrayed in a single geometric plane were embedded in an elastomeric matrix layer adjacent to a steel backing layer. In the second armor system aluminosilicate porcelain tiles arrayed in two parallel geometric planes were embedded in an elastomeric matrix layer adjacent to a steel backing layer. In the third armor system 90 aluminum oxide tiles arrayed in a single geometric plane were embedded in an elastomeric matrix layer adjacent to a steel backing layer. In the fourth armor system 99 aluminum oxide tiles arrayed in a single geometric plane were embedded in an elastomeric matrix layer adjacent to a steel backing layer.

Since the four armor systems were designed to have equal areal densities of the respective ceramic tiles the thicknesses of the ceramic tiles and corresponding elastomeric matrix layers were rendered differently in accordance with the different physical densities of the ceramic tiles. That is the 90 alumina tiles and corresponding elastomeric matrix layer of the third armor system were slightly thicker than the 99 alumina tiles and corresponding elastomeric matrix layer of the fourth armor system. The aluminosilicate porcelain tiles and two corresponding elastomeric matrix layers of the second armor system were significantly thicker than the 90 alumina tiles and corresponding elastomeric matrix layer of the third armor system similarly the aluminosilicate porcelain tiles and single corresponding elastomeric matrix layer of the first armor system were significantly thicker than the 90 alumina tiles and corresponding elastomeric matrix layer of the third armor system.

The ballistic performances of the four armor systems were tested and compared in terms of V which was defined as the velocity at which 50 of the projectiles impacting an armor system at its frontal side will be stopped by the armor system. Velocity Vwas normalized to a maximum value of one hundred. It was demonstrated that the first and second armor systems i.e. the two armor systems implementing aluminosilicate porcelain tiles exhibited performances comparable to those of the third and fourth armor systems i.e. the two armor systems implementing alumina tiles . The first third and fourth armor systems obtained respective Velocity Vscores of approximately 100. The second armor system obtained a Velocity Vscore of approximately 95. The somewhat lower Velocity Vscore for the second armor system s double layer aluminosilicate porcelain tile embedded matrix system may suggest some configurational superiority thereto of the first armor system s single layer aluminosilicate porcelain tile embedded matrix system.

It was thus experimentally demonstrated that lower density ceramic material can be used in these kinds of armor systems with effectiveness equal to that of conventional ceramic materials by providing a thicker overall ceramic embedded matrix layer at the same areal density of the ceramic material which is tantamount to saying at the same mass or weight of the ceramic material . The increased thickness of the aluminosilicate porcelain ceramic embedded matrix layer compensates for the lesser intrinsic ballistic armor effectiveness of aluminosilicate porcelain material as compared with conventional armor ceramic materials.

Another intriguing and innovative possibility for inventive practice conceived and investigated by present inventor Curtis A. Martin and colleagues is a two phase composite ceramic material composition consisting of chromium diboride and aluminum oxide.

By way of background it was demonstrated several years ago that a two phase composite ceramic material composition consisting of titanium diboride and aluminum oxide can exhibit enhanced ballistic resistance as compared with ballistic resistance exhibited by aluminum oxide alone see Gary A. Gilde et al. Processing Aluminum Oxide Titanium Diboride Composites for Penetration Resistance volume 22 number 3 pages 331 342 2001 incorporated herein by reference. A significant drawback of the titanium diboride aluminum oxide composite material disclosed by Gilde et al. is the necessity to prepare this composition by hot pressing thus limiting practical application due to reduced production capacity and higher production cost.

It was previously demonstrated that a two phase composite ceramic material composition consisting of chromium diboride and aluminum oxide possesses enhanced mechanical properties as compared with mechanical properties of chromium diboride alone or of aluminum oxide alone see Inna G. Talmy et al. Ceramics in the CrB2 Al2O3 System volume 74 pages 261 272 1996 incorporated herein by reference. Talmy et al. disclose an increase in toughness and hardness in various intermediate compositions of chromium diboride aluminum oxide as compared with pure aluminum oxide or pure chromium diboride.

Both Talmy et al. and Gilde et al. disclose the making of their respective ceramic ceramic composite materials via hot pressing. In general the necessity to prepare a composition by hot pressing represents a significant drawback of that composition as this limits practical application because of reduced production capacity and higher production cost. There is an advantage of the chromium diboride aluminum oxide composition disclosed by Talmy et al. vis vis the titanium diboride aluminum oxide composition disclosed by Gilde et al. namely because of limited solid solubility in a chromium diboride aluminum oxide system the hot pressing temperature is reduced as compared with that of a titanium diboride aluminum oxide system. Notwithstanding possible cost saving advantage of lower hot pressing temperature as a practical matter neither Talmy et al s chromium diboride aluminum oxide material nor Gilde et al. s titanium diboride aluminum oxide material holds significant promise for armor applications.

A significant advantage recently discovered by present inventor Martin along with Inna G. Talmy and James Zaykoski is the fact that some compositions of chromium diboride aluminum oxide especially those that consist predominantly of aluminum oxide can be pressureless sintered. Generally speaking pressureless sintering is a less expensive processing methodology than hot pressing. With its promise of reduced cost and increased availability Martin Talmy and Zaykoski s chromium diboride aluminum oxide materials manufactured via pressureless sintering has greater potential than many materials manufactured via hot pressing. By virtue of this processing improvement i.e. pressureless sintering production vice hot pressing production and its favorable mechanical properties a pressureless sintered chromium diboride aluminum oxide system is an attractive material for use as armor e.g. ballistic armor ceramic particularly in lieu of hot pressed materials.

The afore noted conventional ceramic armor materials e.g. aluminum oxide silicon carbide boron carbide titanium carbide represent pure ceramic materials. The afore noted unconventional ceramic armor material aluminosilicate porcelain as well represents a pure ceramic material. The afore noted chromium diboride aluminum oxide composition represents a completely ceramic composite material system consisting of two different pure ceramic material phases. Inventive practice does not require that the inventive ceramic elements be composed of a pure ceramic material or a completely ceramic composite material. Instead according to inventive practice the inventive ceramic elements can be composite articles that consist of at least one ceramic material and at least one non ceramic material.

Although the present invention is typically practiced whereby the inventive ceramic elements are made of conventional ceramic armor material inventive practice permits a wide variety of ceramic inclusive material compositions for the inventive ceramic elements. The term ceramic inclusive material as used herein denotes any material that includes at least one ceramic material. Generally as defined herein a ceramic inclusive material can fall into any of three categories viz. a a ceramic material b a ceramic ceramic composite material and c a ceramic non ceramic composite material. A ceramic material consists of a pure ceramic material i.e. a single completely ceramic material. A ceramic ceramic composite material consists of at least two different ceramic materials. A ceramic non ceramic composite material consists of at least one ceramic material and at least one non ceramic material. For instance a ceramic ceramic composite material can consist of three different ceramic materials. As another example a ceramic non ceramic composite material can consist of two different ceramic materials and two different non ceramic materials. And so on . . . .

In the realm of ceramic non ceramic composite materials joint inventor Martin has conceived interesting possibilities of using for ballistic armor applications various types of composites that combine ceramic materials with metal materials glass materials and or polymeric materials. Conventional ceramic armor materials do not lend themselves to preparation in complex shapes. In contrast according to joint inventor Martin s conceptions a reaction bonded ceramic material such as reaction bonded silicon nitride RBSN is prepared rather easily in a complex shape such as a helmet shape or vest shape and the specially shaped reaction bonded ceramic e.g. RBSN preform is then readily infiltrated with at least one selected non ceramic infiltrator material from among one or more of three categories of non ceramic infiltrator material viz. i metal ii polymeri e.g. elastomer and iii glass. Advantageously such a ceramic non ceramic composite of Martin can exhibit reduced density and therefore reduced weight because it is constituted as if part of the ceramic material has been replaced with less dense material in effect a metal especially a light metal such as aluminum a polymer e.g. elastomer or a glass has been substituted for a portion of the total volume of the ceramic.

Techniques are known for making certain kinds of ceramic metal composites. One previously disclosed methodology for creating a ceramic metal composite involves the combination of ceramic powder with a metal component through dispersion of ceramic powder into the melted metal component. Another previously disclosed methodology for preparing a ceramic metal composite involves the partial sintering of ceramic material to obtain a porous ceramic body followed by melt infiltration of the porous ceramic body with a metal.

The following United States patents incorporated herein by reference are instructive on methods for making ceramic metal composite materials Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 573 210 B1 issued 3 Jun. 2003 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 051 277 issued 18 Apr. 2000 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 025 065 issued 15 Feb. 2000 Claussen U.S. Pat. No. 5 843 859 issued 1 Dec. 1998 Claussen U.S. Pat. No. 5 607 630 issued 4 Mar. 1997 Claussen U.S. Pat. No. 5 326 519 issued 5 Jul. 1994 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 158 916 issued 27 Oct. 1992 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 908 171 issued 13 Mar. 1990 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 900 492 issued 13 Feb. 1990 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. Re. 32 449 reissued 30 Jun. 1987 Claussen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 525 464 issued 25 Jun. 1985 Aghajanian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 197 972 B2 issued 3 Apr. 2007 Benitsch U.S. Pat. No. 7 128 963 B2 issued 31 Oct. 2006 Aghajanian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 104 177 B1 issued 12 Sep. 2006 Aghajanian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 995 103 B2 issued 7 Feb. 2006 Aghajanian et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 862 970 B2 issued 8 Mar. 2005 Karandikar et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0238794 A1 published 2 Dec. 2004 McCormick et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 805 034 B1 issued 19 Oct. 2004 McCormick et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 609 452 B1 issued 26 Aug. 2003.

The following two references disclose RBSN metal composites. Nils Claussen et al. Squeeze Cast SiN Al Composites volume 4 number 3 pages 117 119 2002 incorporated herein by reference disclose infiltration referred to by Claussen et al. as squeeze casting of a conventional aluminum alloy into a porous reaction bonded silicon nitride SiN preform to produce a SiN Al composite exhibiting excellent mechanical properties. N. A. Travitzky and N. Claussen Microstructure and Properties of Metal Infiltrated RBSN Composites volume 9 number 1 pages 61 65 1992 incorporated herein by reference disclose gas pressure infiltration of RBSN with one of four different metallic materials viz. aluminum Al with an aluminum alloy Al Mg Si Zn titanium aluminum Ti Al intermetallic and silicon Si thus producing four different RBSN metal composites.

A reaction bonded silicon nitride RBSN preform can be prepared by forming a green body of silicon particles e.g. by pressing or slip casting and then reacting the green body with nitrogen or nitrogen bearing gas such as ammonia resulting in conversion of silicon particles to silicon nitride grains. The RBSN material perform thus produced is necessarily porous it can never be pore free fully dense . It is possible to control the porosity and therefore the density of the RBSN by controlling the green density. 

Claussen et al. prepared aluminum silicon nitride composites measured flexural strengths and found that flexural strength was dramatically increased by infiltration of SiNwith Al. Present inventor Martin has conceived the infiltration into RBSN preforms of non ceramic materials such as polymeric materials or glass materials. It is believed by Martin that the infiltration of such materials into RBSN preforms will yield similar increases in flexural strength. Moreover regardless of whether the porosity of RBSN is filled with a metal a glass or a polymer a pore free material would result having a lower overall density than fully dense silicon nitride and having a significantly lower density than alumina.

Present inventor Martin believes that RBSN materials hold promise for armor applications. The silicon nitride grains in RBSN are interlocked and well bonded in fact the bonding between the grains in RBSN is stronger than that of partially sintered ceramics. Based on the varying strengths for varying porosities of RBSN as reported by the afore noted Claussen et al. the flexural strength of porous RBSN with more than 40 porosity can be over 250 Mpa which is as strong as fully dense 90 alumina a common armor material.

Accordingly present inventor Martin s novel lightweight ceramic non ceramic infiltrated RBSN preform composite materials and novel methods of making same are believed to be suitable for ballistic armor applications. Featured by Martin s new ceramic non ceramic composite materials is the infiltration of a metallic material and or a polymeric material and or a glass material into a reaction bonded porous ceramic such as a reaction bonded silicon nitride RBSN . More specifically previously unknown are Martin s RBSN glass composites RBSN polymer composites RBSN glass polymer composites RBSN metal polymer composites RBSN metal glass composites and RBSN metal polymer glass composites.

Infiltration of a reaction bonded ceramic preform can be accomplished without great difficulty. To make a ceramic metal infiltrated RBSN preform composite the impregnation of RBSN by a metal can be accomplished via pressure melt infiltration of a metallic metal or metal alloy material. Pressureless melt infiltration may be possible with the right surface chemistry. To make a polymer metal infiltrated RBSN preform composite the impregnation of RBSN by a polymer can be accomplished via melt infiltration or vacuum pressure infiltration of a thermoset polymeric material. To make a polymer glass infiltrated RBSN preform composite the impregnation of RBSN by a glass can be accomplished via melt infiltration of a glass material.

The unique ceramic non ceramic infiltrated RBSN preform composite e.g. a ceramic metal infiltrated RBSN preform composite or a ceramic polymer infiltrated RBSN preform composite or a ceramic glass infiltrated RBSN preform composite may be particularly suitable for light weight armor applications such as personal personnel armor applications e.g. body armor or armored helmets for which weight is critical but at the same time the need exists to increase the level of protection to cover more aggressive fragments and other projectiles. Currently ground troops are outfitted with a polymer composite helmet that is capable of stopping handgun threats.

In theory a helmet made of a ceramic material could provide greater resistance to projectile impact than what is currently used. In practice however helmets represent especially difficult applications for ceramic armor because of both weight restriction and specialized shape. Ceramic armor materials of more advanced capability are prepared most often by hot pressing a method that is not suitable for preparation of an article of complex shape such as a helmet. By comparison reaction bonded silicon nitride can be prepared easily in a helmet shape as evidenced by the current production of automotive turbocharger rotors and jet engine components. The helmet shaped RBSN perform can be readily infiltrated with the selected e.g. metal polymer or glass material.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

