---

title: Dynamic help information
abstract: Dynamic help information is provided by receiving unit, configured to receive at least one operation of a user and to obtain the user's operation history, where the operation history includes at least one operation; a determining unit, configured to determine the corresponding help information according to the user's operation history; and an information obtaining unit, configured to obtain said corresponding help information. Assistance in providing help information is also provided, comprising: an operation capturing unit, configured to capture and send at least one operation of a user; and an information displaying unit, configured to receive and display the help information corresponding to the user's operation history, where the operation history includes at least one operation. With the apparatuses and method of this invention, the pertinent help information can be dynamically provided for users according to user's operation history.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026910&OS=09026910&RS=09026910
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09026910
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101129
---
This application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 200910247122.X filed Nov. 30 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Various aspects of the present invention relate to providing help information and more particularly to systems methods and computer program products for providing dynamic on the spot help information to a user interacting with a software application.

New computer applications especially web applications are constantly emerging. These new and emerging applications are becoming complex and require a lot of effort for a novice to completely grasp their usage. In this regard it is becoming increasingly difficult to provide training that is effective in helping users learn these new applications.

Various approaches have been adopted for using traditional techniques to provide help information to users of such software applications. These approaches include paper reference books electronic manuals an on line help desk multimedia videos or courseware with pictures and sounds for teaching etc. However these traditional approaches are not always suitable for user needs. For example the information provided in reference books and electronic manuals can be so theoretical that it is disadvantageous for users to learn various operations in practice. On line help is relatively more direct and effective for solving problems. However on line help is often not suitable for beginners since many beginners may not know how to determine and describe their problems.

According to aspects of the present invention dynamic help information is provided by receiving at least one operation of a user interacting with a software application and obtaining an operation history associated with the user where the operation history includes at least one user operation. Dynamic help is further provided by determining appropriate help information based upon the operation history. The help information may be determined for example independently of code executing the software application operated by the user. Dynamic help is further provided by obtaining the help information from a help repository that stores help information associated with the software application where the help information is provided to the user for display associated with the software application. According to still further aspects of the present invention assistance for providing help information comprises capturing and sending at least one operation of a user to an analyzer to request help information associated with an interaction between the user and the software application. In this regard the analyzer is independent of code executing a software application operated by the user. Assistance is further provided by receiving and displaying the help information received from the analyzer where the received help information is determined based upon an operation history associated with the user where the operation history includes the at least one operation of the user interacting with the software application.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof. It is understood that the detailed description including the drawings is illustrative rather than restrictive to aspects of the present invention.

Various aspects of the present invention provide methods systems and computer program products which facilitate the ability to provide dynamic help information to a user. In general software providers content developers or other sources prepare material for associated software content such as help education material instructions etc. which is subscribed or otherwise stored in a repository. A user can deploy and interact with software content in a normal manner. However when the user needs help information a client forwards content and or context information to an analyzer that interacts with the repository to identify the appropriate context relevant help information. For example in an illustrative implementation the analyzer evaluates the received information to identify help material from the repository that is useful to the user in view of the application content under such context associated with the activity being performed by the user. The analyzer then returns the appropriate e.g. pruned help information to the requesting client for display of the help information to the user. In this regard there is no need for the software code e.g. product widget web page etc. to be changed. Rather the implementation of a help service is stripped off of the software application and has been wrapped out such that there is no need to modify the code of the application itself. Such dynamic help can thus be provided even by a third party which is independent of an entity that maintains the software. This dramatically releases the burden of the product developer to offer dynamic help.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to a system is illustrated for providing dynamic help information according to aspects of the present invention. The system comprises an assisting apparatus a help information providing apparatus and a help information storage apparatus .

The assisting apparatus is configured to capture and or send context information also referred to herein as operation situation information to the help providing apparatus . The operation situation information may include information such as application content information associating at least one operation of a user corresponding to a user interaction with a software application history information and user operations. The assisting apparatus is further configured to receive and display help information obtained in response to the operation situation information including user operations sent to the help information providing apparatus . In an illustrative example the assisting apparatus utilizes browser related technology to provide a client side service implemented as a browser plug in. However other configurations may alternatively be implemented.

The help information providing apparatus is configured to receive operation situation information such as user operations corresponding to user interaction with an associated software application the user s operation history etc. from the assisting apparatus . For instance an operation history associated with a user may include at least one operation of a user corresponding to a user interaction with an associated software application. Based upon obtained information the help providing apparatus determines help information that is appropriate in the context of the user s operation history. By way of example the help information providing apparatus may utilize a behavior map to determine what help information is required in a specific instance. The behavior map may also be utilized to determine how information will be displayed to a user under a certain context. As an illustration in the behavior map a scenario step tuple can be used to map to a library tuple which describes what and how the help information is selected and displayed. As such the help information providing apparatus is able to analyze which help material is useful for example to a current web content that a user is interacting with under a current content. The help information providing apparatus may also be capable of determining how such help information should be displayed according to the behavior map.

The help information storage apparatus is configured to store help information associated with a product software application widget etc. where the help information corresponds for example to help in the context of various user operations. The help information storage apparatus may implement for example a help material repository that contains help information e.g. in the form of predefined JavaScript libraries JavaScript is a registered trademark of Oracle America Inc. of Redwood Shores Calif. predefined DIV libraries description information e.g. DIV positions etc. reference information to pre defined libraries and parameters information and or other necessary information to provide dynamic learning help. In an illustrative example a Web content developer or other software provider subscribes or otherwise registers the available help material with the help information storage apparatus .

With such a system as an illustrative example when a user tries to interact with an unfamiliar application the assisting apparatus can capture and record an operation situation e.g. including the user s operations and then send the operation situation to the help information providing apparatus . After receiving the user s operation situation the help information providing apparatus analyzes available information and determines the current user status according to an associated operation history. The help information providing apparatus maps the determined user status to corresponding help information. Furthermore the help information providing apparatus retrieves the needed help information from the help information storage apparatus and sends the help information back to the assisting apparatus . Once such help information is received the assisting apparatus appropriately displays the help information to the user. Thereby the user can obtain the needed help information dynamically when using the unfamiliar application.

According to aspects of the present invention dynamic help information is provided by a method and or a computer program product and or an apparatus that comprises a microprocessor coupled to a memory wherein the microprocessor is programmed to obtain dynamic help for display to a user of a software application independent of the code of the software application. In this regard the following detailed description illustrates an exemplary implementation of the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus in connection with web applications.

Specifically the operation capturing unit can capture user operations on a web application through various approaches. In one example as a part of the browser plug in the operation capturing unit can obtain user operations by capturing mouse clicking mouse dragging keyboard inputting etc. The operation capturing unit may also capture browser history information or other information captured during operation of the client side computer. In another illustrative example the operation capturing unit may further record the obtained series of user operations so as to form an operation history for the user. Based on the above the operation capturing unit analyzes or otherwise identifies the current web application that the user is interacting with and determines the corresponding help information providing apparatus . The assisting apparatus may send a single operation step or multiple operation steps obtained by the capturing unit to the corresponding help information providing apparatus . Still further the operation capturing unit can directly send the recorded operation history to the appropriate help information providing apparatus .

The information displaying unit is configured to receive and display the dynamic help information received from the help information providing apparatus . Specifically once the information displaying unit is in receipt of the help information corresponding to user operations the information displaying unit displays the received help information at a suitable position on the webpage of the associated web application in a proper manner. Usually the received help information contains description text and displaying information. The displaying information includes various parameters and codes related to displaying the received help information. Exemplary displaying information comprises the form of the information to be displayed the position with the application display where the help information is to be displayed the transparency of a window that displays help information the font style and size of the text etc. used to display help information etc.

In one example DIV layers and corresponding JavaScript code characterize information that describes how help is provided displayed. Web pages are mostly managed by layers and a DOM tree and DIV is just the language that defines displaying information in layers. Thus displaying help information in such form is especially suited when help information is displayed on existing web pages. In this case the information displaying unit embeds DIV tags and the corresponding JavaScript into a DOM tree of the current page in the associated browser. That is the information displaying unit inserts the necessary DIV and JavaScript commands respectively into the source code of the current web page of the web application temporarily. Then when reading the source code and thereby performing display the browser can display the help information text properly according to the displaying information.

Optionally the assisting apparatus may further comprise other functional units. is a functional block diagram of the assisting apparatus according to further aspects of the present invention. In besides corresponding units with the same function as those of the operation capturing unit and information displaying unit shown in the assisting apparatus additionally comprises a scenario providing unit and a setting unit .

According to aspects of the present invention the scenario providing unit is configured to classify web application functions into a plurality of scenarios. Example scenarios may comprise for example creating a new account making a new order modifying the existing data etc. The scenario providing unit also provides various scenarios to a user as options. When a user makes a selection from the provided scenarios the scenario providing unit sends the selected scenario to the help information providing apparatus so that the information providing apparatus can perform a relatively quick analysis on the current user status to identify appropriate help information.

The setting unit can be implemented as another user interface which receives user settings with regard to the displaying of information such as the textbox size the textbox transparency the font size color of the text etc. In one example once user settings on the display of information have been obtained the setting unit modifies the default settings of the received displaying information into the corresponding user settings and then sends the modified displaying information to the information displaying unit to perform display of received help information. In another example the setting unit can also send user settings to the server side to store the user settings at the server side so as to directly receive the displaying information in accordance with user settings for use in the future.

The assisting apparatus can comprise other functional units related to user operation capturing and help information displaying depending on the settings on the client side of the browser and based on user needs. For example the assisting apparatus may also comprise a startup option through which a user can decide whether or not to start the dynamic help information service and the assisting apparatus. Such functional extension to the above embodiments is also within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

To obtain the dynamic help information the assisting apparatus communicates with the help information providing apparatus sending user operations to and receiving dynamic help information from the help information providing apparatus .

Specifically the receiving unit receives information about user operations on a web application from the assisting apparatus . If the received operation information comprises multiple steps of operations or an operation history the receiving unit can obtain the user s operation history directly. If the received operation information is a single step the receiving unit can make reference for example to previously received user operations in order to obtain the user s operation history. After obtaining the operation history the receiving unit sends the operation history to the determining unit to perform an analysis for purposes of identifying appropriate help information.

The determining unit obtains the user s operation history from the receiving unit and performs an analysis on the received operation history. Specifically the determining unit determines the current status of the user according to the operation history and maps the determined status to corresponding help information. In one example the determining unit maintains a mapping table storing the correspondence of each user status and the help information where the help information is stored using indexes or pointers. The determining unit can thus quickly determine the index or the pointer of the needed help information by making reference to the mapping table. The appropriate help information can then be retrieved and sent to the corresponding information obtaining unit .

Once receiving the index or the pointer of the needed help information the information obtaining unit searches the corresponding help information storage apparatus according to the index or the pointer and retrieves the help information directed by the index or the pointer. As above described the retrieved help information may contain description text and displaying information. After retrieving such help information the information obtaining unit sends the retrieved help information to the assisting apparatus to display the retrieved help information.

To obtain the needed help information the help information providing apparatus communicates with and thus reads data from the help information storage apparatus . Therefore the help information storage apparatus stores the help information data corresponding to the operated web application.

With the above described manner the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus cooperate with one another to provide dynamic help information for users. As mentioned above the dynamic help information is provided based on the user s operation history which illustrates an exemplary feature that makes the systems described herein distinct from those in the conventional techniques that provide static help information. That is the dynamic help information provided according to aspects of the present invention described herein is based at least in part upon certain context and therefore different operation history may result in different prompts and help information even at the same step.

The following provide illustrative descriptions of different scenarios to which aspects of this invention may apply. Suppose a user is using a web application with an online ordering function. In order to accomplish an order set in the web application the user needs to finish the following steps on the pages provided by the web application creating a new account placing an order signing the confidentiality agreement confirming the order when the successful order is displayed by the web application and choosing whether to mail the order form.

In an illustrative scenario the user first enters into the page for creating an account. The help system according to aspects of this invention prompts the user to input personal information and click next wherein the required fields are marked with indicia such as a red star. Suppose the user has entered input into all fields including name occupation address email telephone etc. Then the user clicks next according to the prompt and enters into the page for placing an order. Here the help system prompts the user to choose the desired product. After the user selects a desired product the user enters into the page for signing the confidentiality agreement by following the prompt. Here the system prompts the user to make a decision with regard to the confidentiality of the user s information. Suppose the user chooses to keep all data confidential. Finally the web application presents the user s order information in an order form on a new page and asks the user to confirm that the order is correct. At this time the user finds that the option for mailing the order form is presently disabled. Here the system would prompt the user that the order form can t be mailed because the user chooses all data kept secret.

In a second illustrative scenario the user enters into a web page for creating an account as above and inputs personal information according to the dynamic help information. Suppose the user only inputs data into select ones of the required fields such as name and occupation without inputting address and email. Then the user chooses the products to place an order according to the prompt. After that the user follows the prompt and enters into the page for signing the confidentiality agreement. Suppose the user agrees to allow all entered information to be open to the public. The user will finally find on the order form displaying page that the option for mailing the order form is still prohibited. Here the system would prompt that the order form can t be mailed because the user failed to input email and address information.

In a third exemplary scenario under the system prompts the user inputs all fields for creating an account and allows the data to be public. Then on an order form displaying page the option for mailing the order form is enabled. Here the help system would prompt the user that the order form can be mailed to the designated address if such an option is chosen.

It can therefore be seen that the help system according to aspects of the invention described in greater detail herein can provide different prompts based on the user s operation history. Aspects of the present invention thus conceptually function as a web application expert who is skilled in using the web application and at the same time is conscious of the user s operation status. Therefore the help system is able to provide pertinent help information and prompts directed to the current operation step with reference to the previous operation history.

On the other hand from the point of view of the system architecture in certain illustrative implementations of aspects of the present invention the assisting apparatus is located on the client side of the browser and the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus are on the server side of the service of providing dynamic help. However each of the assisting apparatus help information providing apparatus and help information storage apparatus are separate from the associated web application. As a result the dynamic help service provided by the systems described herein are conceptually stripped off and separated from a service of the web application itself. Therefore the help information service can be developed and provided by a third party that is independent on the web application which makes this service more flexible and professional. Meanwhile this would dramatically release the burden of the web application service side to modify the source code to provide help information. In one example the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus can even be based on an open platform to which anyone who is familiar with a certain web application can add and register their known help information. In this way the help information provided by the system of this invention may be more complete and flexible.

It is understood that the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus described in greater detail herein can be implemented in various ways. The help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus can be integrated together or implemented as two isolated apparatuses. In the case that the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus are implemented as two isolated apparatuses each functional unit can be located selectively in different apparatus according to the storage capacity and the calculating ability of respective apparatuses. For instance if the storage capacity of the help information storage apparatus is not enough a part of displaying information can be stored in the help information providing apparatus . Moreover the communication among the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus can be realized by any suitable techniques.

In the above description the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus are explained in detail in connection with a web application. However the apparatuses and system of this invention can also be applied in other applications. For example in the case of a local desktop application the system could capture user operations on the desktop application and provide help information dynamically according to the user s operation history. Here the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus can be located partially on a local side partially on a server side or even totally on a local side as desired. Moreover the assisting apparatus the help information providing apparatus and the help information storage apparatus can be implemented selectively as multiple apparatuses or as an integrated single apparatus according to different applications and local processing ability. Thus those skilled in the art can adopt different embodiments in different situations based on the above description.

Specifically at capturing user operations can be realized as described more fully herein by catching mouse clicking mouse dragging keyboard inputting etc. performed by the user. At the process may send a single captured operation step or a plurality of operation steps or alternatively record the user s operation first to form the operation history and then directly send the operation history. At once the help information corresponding to the user operations is received such help information is displayed at an appropriate position on the web application interface in a proper way. Usually the received help information contains description text and displaying information. In one example the displaying information is provided using DIV layer s and corresponding JavaScript code. In this case at DIV layers and corresponding JavaScript code are temporarily inserted into the source code of the current page of the web application respectively. Then the browser can display the description text appropriately according to the displaying information.

Specifically at if the received operation information is a plurality of operation steps or the operation history then the user s operation history can be obtained directly. If the received operation information is a single step then at the user s operation history is obtained with reference to the previous received operation steps. At the obtained operation history is analyzed. More specifically the current user status is determined according to the user s operation history and then the status is mapped to the corresponding help information. In an illustrative example a user status is mapped by referring to a mapping table which records the correspondence between each user status and the help information. In this manner an index or pointer of the currently needed help information can be quickly determined. At the help information identified by the index or the pointer is retrieved from the apparatus storing the help information according to the index or the pointer. As above mentioned the obtained help information may contain description text and displaying information. After such help information is retrieved the help information is then sent to a user computer for display at .

Aspects of the present invention avoid issues associated with passive learning methods where users read or watch guidance passively without any interaction feedback or real participation. For instance in a typical Web 2.0 environment there can be several windows and widgets on a webpage that are utilized to enrich a corresponding application. Such widgets also make web applications more changeable. Each different user operation can lead to a different application process and a different outlook which makes static pre defined help information difficult to cover all possible cases in a web application. However as described in greater detail herein various aspects of the present invention promote the improvement of learning efficiency by providing dynamic on spot learning and or help such that there is no need for a software product e.g. a Web 2.0 application widget or other software to require changes to the program code to accommodate the new help information provided to the user.

In this regard various aspects of the present invention provide dynamic and pertinent guidance e.g. providing dynamic learning and or help instructions to users on what to do next when executing an application requiring user interaction. As such products can provide the needed help information step by step dynamically when a user is interacting with a corresponding application.

The dynamic and pertinent guidance may be provided as a service that is logically distinct from an associated software application to which the learning help applies. In this regard such learning help can be provided even by a third party which is independent of an entity that provides the associated software application. Such an arrangement releases the burden of the product developer of the associated software application to offer learning help. Thus there is no need for a developer of an existing product to modify the corresponding code on the server side to support the above mentioned on spot hints and explanations. Modifying the code on product server side is a huge effort and is not easy to be maintained.

In an illustrative example a user learner connects to a server to interact with a product in an normal manner. However using a client such as a plug in for a corresponding Web browser a learning mode can be enabled to start the interactive learning process. For each scenario chosen by the user process guidance may be provided which tells the user what to do next and action guidance may be provided which tells the user how to perform the next step etc. In this regard the user can follow this on spot help information step by step to proceed smoothly while interacting with the corresponding application. Alternatively there may not be a need to turn on a learning mode or take other action. For instance dynamic help may be always available.

In another illustrative exemplary implementation the plug in acts as a control center and implements a driver e.g. to monitor the steps changing in a certain scenario and import related JavaScript scripts and DIV APIs from the help information storage apparatus via the help information providing apparatus . The help information and parameter information combined with related application programming interfaces is injected as code into the corresponding browser document object model DOM tree. The user operates according to the prompt information e.g. to enter the correct information according to a real time hint. By clicking next or some other command in the prompt area prompt help information will be displayed such as where to fill the information next or which button to click next. The button could twinkle e.g. in yellow or provide any additional visual features or aesthetic while waiting for user to respond. The corresponding hint information is typically automatically displayed nearby the prompted field.

It is up to the user to choose whether to go on to the next step. However when a next step starts to run the JavaScript scripts injected will create new prompt information based on DIV technology. In this regard the real time execution description is synchronized with the current execution step which means the description of the execution process is embedded into the execution environment e.g. a browser for a web application in this illustrative example. The description information is displayed synchronously with a learning case in the execution environment e.g. a web browser for a web application such as by appropriately modifying e.g. by inserting information into DOM objects in the example of a Web browser.

During execution the complete combined information is dynamically and momentarily displayed as the user steps through an application. The help information display appears as if it is part of the execution GUI e.g. web page in this example. The attributes of the display could be customized such as the position font etc of the letters the transparency of the display etc. As an illustrative example the execution step information may be contained in a fly over half transparent DIV layer when executing. Additionally a user could use a mouse to move or resize the displayed help learning information etc.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system is depicted in accordance with various aspects of the present invention. Data processing system such as a server may comprise a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system or other configuration including a plurality of processors connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . An I O bus bridge is connected to the system bus and provides an interface to an I O bus . The I O bus may be utilized to support one or more buses and corresponding devices such as bus bridges input output devices I O devices storage network adapters etc. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks.

Still further the I O bus may connect to devices such as a graphics adapter storage and a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied thereon. The processor s execute s computer usable program code to implement any aspect of the present invention for example to implement any aspect of any of the methods and or system components illustrated in . Through the above description of the embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the above mentioned system and method for providing dynamic help information can be practiced by executable instructions and or controlling codes in processors e.g. codes in mediums like disc CD or DVD ROM memories like ROM or EPROM and carriers like optical or electronic signal carrier. The system apparatus and its units can be realized using hardware like Very Large Scale Integrated VLSI circuits or gate arrays like semiconductors e.g. Logic Chip transistors etc. or like programmable hardware equipments e.g. Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA programmable logic equipment etc. or using software executed by different kinds of processors or using the combination of said hardware and software.

The above described exemplary embodiments are intended to be illustrative in all respects of the method and system for providing dynamic help information rather than restrictive of the present invention. Those skilled in the art should recognize that the present invention is capable of many variations and modifications within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable storage medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Java is a registered trademark of Oracle America Inc. of Redwood Shores Calif. Smalltalk Smalltalk is a trademark of Cincom Systems Inc. of Cincinnati Ohio its subsidiaries or successors C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Aspects of the invention were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

