---

title: System and method for capturing and reporting online sessions
abstract: The present invention discloses a computer system for reporting online sessions and a computer enabled method utilizing the same. The computer system is made up of an icon that preferably appears on a user screen. The icon is capable of capturing a screen session on the user screen and saving it within a recording. The recording may then be communicated to a database server that is capable of extracting a plurality of target components from said recording, and is capable of storing them in a database. The database may contain a benchmark content of the plurality of target components. Target components may then be compared against the benchmark content in a variety of ways to determine whether the level of target components is above or below reasonable and socially accepted levels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301653&OS=08301653&RS=08301653
owner: 
number: 08301653
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100125
---
The invention relates to a computer system and computer enabled method for monitoring activities occurring during a display session.

The invention relates to a telecommunication system and a method for using such a system to record store archive and report activities occurring on a user s computer television electronic gaming device telephone cell phone e fax or any other type of electronic or telecommunication display . The preferred use disclosed in the present invention may be to capture electronic mail email text voice and or video chat using speech recognition images video or chat sessions for records or for a possible review and investigation. The aim is to have a tool that can readily capture and record an ongoing event both online and in person that a user of this event deems to be offensive threatening or otherwise suspicious. In addition to these sessions it can also be used to capture record archive forward store report or otherwise transfer materials deemed as offensive alarming or inappropriate such as websites facebook or myspace social media type pages web blogs or blogs or any other type of event picture graphic or communication media that the user may regard as needing to be reported. However the present invention may be used for other purposes for example as a record keeping tool for recording application sessions reporting violations of company and other institutional policies or a person witnessing someone leaving luggage alone at an airport. Presently a lot of interpersonal communication occurs over the course of chat and email sessions between individuals and groups. These chat sessions usually take place between two or more remote users that are connected to the World Wide Web or the internet or the global computer network GCN . Chats may also occur over a local area network for example between employees of a single enterprise or electronic communication may also take place over the global system for mobile communication GSM or a similar communication system that provides a communication network for wireless devices.

Chat and email and other electronically enabled communication forums have many benefits. For instance two remote locations or individuals may now be linked together instantaneously considerable privacy and discreteness may be provided especially if the messages are encrypted and chat and email is almost always free of charge. Additionally most recent software innovations have enhanced the ease of electronic communication channels. For example advances such as stateful or threaded chat room presence enables remote users to monitor whether their chat buddies are connected to the internet or whether they have stepped away or are too busy to participate.

However electronic sessions also offer some significant caveats and drawbacks that the present invention addresses. One downside of electronic communication versus more traditional methods is that such communication often occurs between unfamiliar parties. Most often the users are only able to see the other side s input characters but not the individuals themselves their demeanor body language or age. Such communication is driven by trust a trust that is often abused and used to exploit the na ve or unwary. However even in cases where users know each other there may be times where the substance of an electronic exchange involves topics that can potentially pose significant consequences to those involved in the conversations or to the object of the conversation. When this occurs either party may want to record the exchange or even to alert a responsible third party such as law enforcement a regulatory body an overseeing party or a party having legal interest. Thus a primary purpose of this invention is for a user to be able to notify Safety Net Interactive Inc. or any other designated or licensed entity that is contracted by SNI of predatory improper illegal or otherwise prohibited behavior experienced in a online or in person event.

Presently virtually all software tools that enable remote communication also offer ways to store or record a particular communication within a record a file or other means. However multiple individual sessions must be recorded separately. This is also true for non internet related software applications. Each separate instance of a software application must be separately memorialized and recorded. Additionally saving is not always available and a screen capture may be the best solution. Also of significance is that the presently available screen capture tools create an image that cannot be searched or edited whereas the present invention is able to parse the image in search of text strings and characters.

Furthermore the effectiveness of these computer and other telecommunications systems that are state of the art are significantly reduced by the lack of a direct reporting link between a party doing the recording and a party interested in its contents. For example a private citizen or a business associate may lack the knowledge or ability to contact proper echelons of law enforcement or other authoritative corporate organization or legally interested parties schools towns states or country to report threatening abusive bullying abrasive sexually explicit or any offensive communications. On the other end Law enforcement schools towns states country or corporate compliance officers may lack tools or knowledge in determining whether something is benign or truly ominous.

Finally the present methods often do not guarantee confidentiality. The possibility of exposure of a particular exchange and negative consequences of such an exposure on a victim frequently discourage reporting. For example youngsters may be reluctant to contact authorities for fear of alerting parents or school officials. Junior staffers may fear that disclosure may expose their online or social activity to their superiors and jeopardize their employment prospects. The present invention addresses this by providing an independent third party analyzer tool that can determine if the sessions are truly hostile or offensive and which is able to alert law enforcement or another appropriate remedial body without also alerting the victim s parents or superiors.

Various implements are known in the art but fail to address all of the problems solved by the invention described herein. One embodiment of this invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings and will be described in more detail herein below.

The present invention discloses a computer system for reporting online sessions and a computer enabled method utilizing the same. The computer system is made up of an icon that preferably appears on a user screen. The icon is capable of capturing a screen session on the user screen and saving it within a recording. The recording may then be communicated to a database server that is capable of extracting a plurality of target components from said recording and is capable of storing these target components in a database. The database may contain a benchmark content of the plurality of target components. Target components may then be compared against the benchmark content in a variety of ways to determine whether the level of target components is above or below reasonable and socially accepted levels or other configurable levels.

Therefore the present invention succeeds in conferring the following and others not mentioned desirable and useful benefits and objectives.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a screen capturing tool of a user s display session.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a reporting tool where a user s screen session is reported to an independent third party or analyzer.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a reporting tool that is capable of parsing captured images into searchable characters and strings.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a tool with various algorithmic approaches for determining whether the content of the target components represents a sufficient threat to warrant attention of law enforcement or other enforcement agency. After it has been through the system and has had a SNI screener also look at it.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a reporting tool having an independent database for storing reports and benchmark content.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a search module to law and policy enforcement officers who may search the database against a set of target components.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a capturing tool that may be started automatically as a background process and which can be activated with a click of a mouse or another type of fast activation.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. Identical elements in the various figures are identified with the same reference numerals.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiment of the present invention. Such embodiments are provided by way of explanation of the present invention which is not intended to be limited thereto. In fact those of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate upon reading the present specification and viewing the present drawings that various modifications and variations are possible.

Referring now to shown are the main components of the present invention namely a computer system an online session connecting to a global computer network GCN or the Internet an icon a user a user screen a recording a database server a database a relay server a search module access by third parties .

An online session may be referring to any session that is currently occurring on the user s screen including but not limited to a word processing or data entry sessions or any other administrative sessions which may need to be recorded for a later review. Preferably the online session refers to a chat session an email session a blog session or any other session that represents a communication over two or more interconnected user systems . The interconnected user systems may be connected via the internet or reside in a local area network LAN of a public or private enterprise or a non commercial establishment. Whatever the setting the present invention may be used to record specific type of communication for example violent vulgar predatory threatening or sexually explicit messages and images. Alternatively the present invention may also be used to record any other kind of communication for the purposes of records keeping.

A typical session occurs over the internet from a user screen by using a web browser such as but not limited to Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome or Netscape Navigator or any other browser enabled for this purpose. A user may access a website to launch a separate chat application or the chat application may be installed locally or get launched outside of the web browser. Other chatting applications may exist within other types of applications for example a Sametime application may be launched from within an IBM s Lotus Notes application.

The icon may be referred to as the client application that runs independently managed only by the local operating system of the user system where the icon has been installed or running. The icon may be a stand alone software application that is capable of receiving initiating or maintaining contact with another user system . In the present invention the icon may need to be in contact or may receive and send messages and other data between the user s computer and either the database server or the relay server . Depending on the scale of the embodiment either the database server or the relay server or both may be present in an embodiment of the present invention. Additionally the icon may communicate with the database server through the relay server or the icon may communicate directly with the database server .

The icon contains an iconic or a graphical front end of an overall software application where all parts may be written in C C C Visual Basic or any other language such as Java that may be used to create software for data and transactional processing. The icon may necessarily need to interact with system resources and interfaces provided by the operating system . One skilled in the art of software development may appreciate that an application of this type may include code sections or objects for interacting with system resources such as hardware resources CPU time and processing or network bandwidth. Alternatively an application may be build within a COM or COM framework or a .Net framework or a Websphere or a Weblogic framework or any other framework where all standard system security networking and data management objects as well as most graphical objects are supplied by the framework software with a skilled developer supplying the business logic necessary to enable the icon software functionality described herein.

The graphical interface of the present invention may preferably be contained within the icon which may be running as a separate service or a daemon and which may be present in miniature within the notification section of a Windows task bar. The icon may also be set to run upon request such as a mouse click on a miniature desktop or start menu icon representing the icon or the icon may be running as background process in any other type of runtime environment where a runtime environment refers to a combination comprising an operating system hardware resources and a preferred blend of other ancillary applications. The icon may be further enhanced with logic enabling popup notifications or an event monitor to respond to mouse over events or other usage events. When a user wishes to record an online session he or she may activate the icon with a click of a mouse or a typed command to bring up a supporting interface or to expand the interface within the icon . The icon may also be activated quickly with a hotkey a keyboard key or key combination assigned by the icon for such operation.

In another embodiment the icon may be a highly intelligent server application that would monitor the network interface keystrokes from the keyboard or mouse or objects appearing on the screen to determine whether a maximum threshold of a certain type of information has been reached. Once reached the icon may be configured to automatically initiate a recording of a session or a particular part or application appearing on the user s session . The icon may also contain a drag and drop area where only the sessions the user wishes to record are captured by the icon with the other sessions remaining private.

The icon preferably sends data remotely to a listening service such as the database server or the relay server . Either of these servers may be running a flavor of Windows UNIX or Linux platforms. Other platforms may be adopted without departing from the spirit of the present invention. These remote servers represent a remote storage and analysis location where the recording may be parsed sorted and analyzed to determine a degree of compliance or a level of a violation of certain preset or standard levels of acceptable human interaction. In another alternative the entire computer system may be partially or entirely contained within a user s computer .

It is preferable that the icon on the user s user system or on another type of user device communicates with the relay server . The icon may contain an internal list or a database that would contain information necessary to establish contact with the relay server such as but not limited to an internet protocol address a domain name and any necessary metadata and command syntax necessary to establish an effective one or two way communication. Alternatively all connectivity information may be stored on the relay server . The relay server may periodically poll all subscribing user systems . One skilled in the art would appreciate that a single database server or a single relay server may interact with a plurality of individual user systems also known as personal computers. This interaction may include but is not limited to software and configuration updates I am alive polling licensing and subscription sync and data uploads from icon and downloads to icon . Data uploads from icon may preferably include an upload of the recording but may also include others types of data.

The polling may initially be set up according to a user agreement such as a subscription a software download or a licensing agreement. In either scenario the relay server may periodically update the icon or any underlying client or database server with latest connectivity information as well as other information such as subscription or service updates software patches and updates or to transfer any recordings that may be stored locally and that are ready for an upload to the relay server or the database server . It should noted that any discussion of the relay server may also be a applied to the database server and visa versa since in some alternative embodiments only one of the servers may be present.

The relay server may be capable of authenticating the user communications as well as any search communications originating from third parties . The relay server may also be capable of manipulating a recording file or a data stream that were received from the client session . The recording in an unprocessed state may be an image object and may be communicated from the icon to the relay server in a compressed state. The image object may be converted into a character based record or file by using an Optical Character Recognition OCR technology present in either the relay server or the database server . Alternatively OCR routines may be executed on the user session which would result in a character based recording . An OCR routine that is local to the icon routine may be preferred to support smaller network bandwidth or lesser available processing capacity by a relay server . In another alternative OCR may be replaced by software that is capable of interpreting binary or machine native language symbols of the recording and convert these into a human readable or searchable format. This software component may reside on the user system may be part of the icon or may reside on the relay server or the database server .

The converted or OCR processed recording may now contain only character based data that is searchable using character mining routines such as the data mining module discussed further. Basic character mining routines are common with many high level languages such as Perl Python or Ruby as well with the any other aforementioned presently existing or future programming techniques and languages. A character based recording is then transferred to the database server . Alternatively the character based recording may be directly recorded in a database in its entirety or parsed into smaller records for example by paragraph by sentence by word or even by character.

In another alternative an OCR or a binary recognition component described herein may communicate directly with the database where any discovered characters or strings may also be stored. In yet another alternative the OCR or the binary recognition component may contain intelligence to store certain image objects in their entirety. This functionality may be needed to enhance and advance the object of the present invention. The preferred object of the present invention is to capture online dialogue containing offensive hostile or sexually explicit or suggestive terms. In some cases the content of such an online session may be in form of a threatening offensive or inappropriate image. Therefore it may be highly desirable that the present invention may be able to distinguish between a target component that is a string or a character and a target component that is an image or a graphical object. These hostile threatening inappropriate sexual or otherwise offensive characters or images that may be contained within the recording are also referred to as target components.

The database may already be preloaded with examples of the target components. These examples may also be referred to as benchmark content. The database the database server or the relay host may contain configurable violation thresholds. These violation thresholds would specify when the plurality of the target components within a particular recording crosses the line between safe and unsafe unsafe and inappropriate inappropriate and hostile and between hostile and menacing. Other levels or qualifications may be included and may be represented by qualitative or quantitative values. These levels may then be used to rank the target content of the recording against the benchmark content already in the database . The rank would then be compared against the violation thresholds that may also be contained in the database to determine if an alarm or a notification is necessary. Whether an alarm or a notification is created the contents of the recording are preferably written to the database for later reference or for the purposes of augmenting the exiting benchmark content. During processing the recording may be delimited and recorded piecemeal with any newly discovered target components being compared on an ongoing basis against the existing benchmark content within the database . In this type of processing a recording that has already been reformatted with OCR technology may also be fully ranked or be ready for a violation determination.

The communication between the icon software that is part of the user session and the relay server or the database may be a transmission control protocol over the internet protocol or TCP IP peer to peer protocol or a token ring protocol or any other protocol suitable for enabling a data transfer that would support the objectives of the present invention. The recording as well as other data exchange may be sent via standard file transfer protocol FTP anonymous ftp secured ftp SFTP or HTTP GET and PUT commands.

It is preferable however that the recording is transferred using a Windows Communication Foundation WCF framework or its equivalent. In a WCF framework the relay server the database or the icon may be classified as services having a separate proxy handling all of the connectivity information security requirements and data transmissions. The connectivity information as well as object call syntax may be advertized by a WCF service in a technology neutral way for example as a response to an HTTP Get prompt. In this architecture a component requesting a service would be classified as a client while the component providing a function would be considered a service. For example the icon may be requesting that the relay server receive and process the recording . Therefore the icon would be requesting a server while the relay server would be providing a function. The roles would be reversed if the contact is originating on the relay server which may be requesting some kind of response from the icon .

The increased benefit of the preferred transmittal embodiment using WCF is that it may be largely technology neutral and may be easily scalable from an all in one local installation to an enterprise or to an internet wide dispersion of components. Technological neutrality arises from the fact that WCF supports bridging software such as HTTP bridges and can therefore communicate with embodiments of icon software running on non Windows based platforms such as Linux or Macintosh. Additionally WCF or its equivalents offer a wide range of security and encryption features such as but not limited to a Kerberos or Windows authentication use or certificates or tokens username and password combinations or any other types of encryption and or authentication or any combination of these encryption and or authentication methodologies.

The search module may reside on the relay server or on the database server . The search module would preferably contain a graphical front end and provide an interactive search interface. The search module may contain several levels of searching complexity ranging from a simple character or number match to Boolean or Advanced key term matching complete with globing and expansions.

The search module may contain a presentation layer and may preferably be accessed by authorized third parties via the internet by using a web browser. Third parties may access a particular internet address a web site that would host the search module by entering its uniform resource locator URL address. The entry would consist of a computer address and a string instruction that is then forwarded over the internet to the computer responding to the particular URL. The string instruction is then interpreted by a web server on the addressed computer. The string instruction and may be encapsulated in the form of a standard common customer gateway CGI syntax or contain any other HTTP required syntax or a WCF required syntax or an SSL required syntax or any other required syntax. The string instruction may contain a required command or service module syntax required by the WCF service that supports the search module functionality of the present invention. Such a WCF service may preferably also reside on either the relay server or the database server or any other server aligned with the relay server or the database server or . It should be noted that for the purposes of scalability the relay server or the database server may be split over several hardware enclosures each with its own CPU where the hardware enclosures would work in concert to magnify the bandwidth of the computer system or to support failover functionality.

The search module may be written in any language that can render or supply web browser content coupled with a technological ability to render interactive web pages or web pages that are capable of receiving and responding to input from a user. A typical web page may be rendered in a markup language that a web browser is able to interpret such as HTML or XML or any other markup language capable of rendering an appropriately styled and sized web page. An interactive web page may additionally have a separate interactive content rendered using cascading style sheets CSS or in a high level language such as AJAX ColdFusion Perl JavaScript or Ruby. Alternatively the entire webpage may be rendered in a cascading style sheet that may be written in any high level language mentioned herein or commonly used in the art for this purpose. The search module may be started as a service on either the relay server or the database server . The service for the search module may be assigned to a specific port number that may be the same or different from the port number used by the icon to transfer a recording to the relay server or the database or to perform any other remote task. The port referred to would preferably reside within the application layer of OSI defined architecture for computerized transmission. Such a port number may be assigned and managed by the operating system to handle requests for a specific application.

The search module may be managed by a web server such as Apache Tomcat or Microsoft IIS which may be configured to listen on a port such as a default port or and directed to start an instance of the search module . The search module and its graphical or browser based front end may written in any language such as but not limited to Java C C C Ruby Perl Python as well as their parent languages or any dialects influenced by these languages. As an additional or alternative feature the search module may contain a command line interface that may respond to an HTTP get request or its equivalent with an appropriate search result. Such a command line search module may similarly listen on a port and may be accessed using an IP and port combination.

The search module is intended to be used by third parties preferably by technical administrators and managers of the computer system or by law enforcement or relatives of the user . Preferably the search module contains an authorization or authentication routine that verifies whether a third party is able to utilize the search capabilities. The third parties rights may be explicitly provided by an administrator of the present invention or automatically by consent of the user . The search module preferably searches the database by matching a search string or a combination of search strings along with any attributes that are composed by a third party . Additionally the search module may contain its own statistical information or may be able to access statistical information compiled by the relay server or the database server . Such search module may be able to respond to a query whether a particular target component should be deemed safe or hostile may return prior incidents or similar incidents involving the same usernames or actual users of both the offender and the victim or any other type of relevant and searchable information. The search module may be capable of wrapping individual search terms into a term within a Structured Query Language SQL thus constructing a query to be executed on the contents of the database with the results appearing within the search module or sent directly A to the third party .

The database may preferably be capable of keeping track of records by using a data dictionary. Furthermore a database should preferably maintain a failure recovery medium to preserve transactions in an event of a failure crash or in an event of a retraction of a transaction by a user or a process. The examples of databases include but are not limited to Oracle Rdbms Sybase ASE IBM DB2 as well as Informix and MySql. Use of other databases may also be possible even a simple comma or whitespace separated file lists may be used as a record storage medium.

The particular way in which a database server interacts with the database may likely depend on an embodiment topology application or physical equipment. In general every high level computer language as well as any application server contains its own application programming interface API with instructions libraries and sub routines that enable a seamless communication with any type of a database used. For example open database connectivity ODBC provides a standard by which many languages may connect to a database. Some languages provide proprietary wrappers for ODBC such as Java s JDBC bridge for OBDC. Other languages or software development platforms may include database classes objects and services that assist with interaction between the relay server and the database server .

The step of activating an icon on a user computer system may include a download or installation of the necessary computer instructions that would be compiled into a computer program or a software package represented by icon software where the download occurs on a users personal computer or user system and the launch of a fully enabled icon software that is ready to record the user session . Some or all parts of this step may be necessary for the first launch only. For example the download of the icon software may only be needed for the first use of the present invention.

The step entails that the icon has been installed configured and is loaded or ready to be loaded into the memory of the personal computer or any other user device such as but not limited a telephone a cell phone a smart phone a personal organizer a web device a television a video or voice recorder or any other device having a screen or a capability of recording data objects. One skilled in the art would appreciate that there may be many variations and options of creating a computer program personified by the icon . It may be highly preferable that a user is capable of launching the icon quickly and conveniently. To facilitate this it may be preferable that some part of the icon is preloaded into the computer system memory at start up of the CPU or upon login of a particular user .

The launch of the icon should preferably not interfere in the ongoing online session so as to not alarm or disconcert the source of the offensive communication into performing a more drastic action. The icon may also contain functionality to warn the user that a source of the offensive communication may be attempting to perform other undesirable or invasive tasks such as but not limited to logging into the user system attempting to view or perform other operations with system data or install or remove applications such as sniffers backdoors and other hackwork and spyware. In another alternative the icon may be able to alert a firewall anti spyware or another intrusion prevention means. Additionally it would be preferable that part of the activation step includes routine maintenance functions of the icon such as but not limited to search and installation of updates internal error reports and licensing maintenance. Maintenance and transfer of the recording may occur over the same or different communication channels between icon and the relay server or the database server .

The step of utilizing said icon to capture a screen session on a user device preferably refers to utilizing the icon to capture objectionable communication. In Windows based embodiments the icon may be running as a background process with some representation of its presence manifested on the user screen such as a miniature icon residing in the notification tray of the task bar. Alternatively the computer logic enabling the icon may listen to a specific activation event such as but not limited to a depression of a designated keyboard key or a hot key or a combination of such keys. Alternatively the icon may periodically scan the user screen for objectionable text.

The user screen session or a user device may also be referring to or attributed to a mobile device such as but not limited to a cell phone an organizer a smart phone a web device a television an electronic gaming device a telephone an e fax or any other type of electronic or telecommunication display or any device with a display. A user device be capable of supporting a background execution of the icon software or the icon may be initiated separately such as a result of menu item selection. This icon may have all or some of the functionality of the icon embodiment that may exist on a user system . Alternatively or additionally such the icon running on a non user system may be supporting of services provided by the device. For example the icon may have an ability of capturing text voice and or video chat using speech recognition or capturing images or video. Such recording would then be transferred to the computer system as a recording of objects such as image objects or audio video objects. The computer system may contain modules such as OCR that may parse and extract characters and images from such objects or which may first convert the recording in an intermediary format that may then be sent to a module such as an OCR.

An icon may contain command line interface or a graphical interface or a combination of both interfaces. A user may choose which particular communication sessions or application screens should be captured otherwise all screens and sessions currently open maximized or minimized may be captured into a recording. In another of the same embodiment individual sessions maybe dragged and dropped into an area provided by the icon . Additionally it may be possible to upload files containing independently saved sessions or application screens into the icon . It may also be preferable for the icon to be capable of identifying which sessions are open or distinguish which sessions are in the foreground and which are in the background selecting only sessions within a specific group of sessions.

The step of capturing a user session on said user computer system into a recording preferably involves the icon and a sub screen or sub menu included with the icon . However all operations may be done from a single screen of the icon . A sub screen or a sub menu if included may be referred to as a user reporting screen. A user reporting screen may prompt for a type of reporting for example a cyber bully or a predator. Other type of reporting may be more applicable to a professional or work related setting where a type of reporting may include a breach of company policy a general unwanted contact. Some types of reporting may be instead of or in addition to the standard cyber bully or predator reporting. The user may be capable of entering any or all information pertaining to the source of the unwanted or offensive contact such as a user name a real name a position address or location explanation of why contact may be offensive or description of how the user and the source became acquainted and any other relevant information that may assist in recording the contact seek prior acts or alert law enforcement and other regulatory bodies. The resulting recording may be an image file or a binary archive that is compact enough to be sent from a user system to a remote relay server or a database server with reasonable expediency and efficiency.

The step of sending said captured screen session to a remote database having benchmark content preferably describes the application of the claimed method to the preferred or alternative networking and data transfer methodologies. As an example of step may be the icon contacting the relay server or the database server based on a pre existing setting specifying the remote address of these servers or . Preferably the addressing is based on interne protocol addressing system that is based on either the 32 bit or a 128 bit addressing or any other addressing that is commonly used in the art and for this purpose. The address may be preset during installation or activation of the icon or periodically passively supplied by the relay server or the database server .

The icon may use any type of file and data transfer techniques such as File Transfer Protocol or a Secure File Transfer Protocol or a Remote Copy Protocol. However preferably the recording may be transferred using a WCF. Using WCF may be more efficient and faster method of data transfer since in WCF data can be communicated directly between the supplier and the consumer of the data bypassing the lengthy process of recording a file transferring it to a target location and then reading the file from the new location. Additionally WCF may provide enhanced security over older FTP and SFPT technology. Another benefit of using the preferred data transfer technique is that it permits the icon to log in once for the entire length of the session or the entire active state of the icon . Alternatively the login may occur automatically in the background and remain logged in for a large portion of the active period.

The step of communicating said recording to a relay server includes sending the recording to the relay server or the database server in an embodiment lacking the relay server . The database server may function as a backup to the relay server in the event of an outage on the relay server . The relay server may preferably be a remote server to the icon and is capable of serving multiple user sessions . Each user session may communicate and exchange data with the relay server apart from and completely insulated from activities by other user sessions . It is highly preferable that individual user sessions are not aware of the presence of other user sessions and do not affect each other s activities.

The step of delimiting said recording into a plurality of target components may preferably occur on the relay server . The relay server may be equipped with optical character recognition OCR software. OCR software would process the binary format of the recording received from the icon by extracting characters character strings sentences or graphical objects. A recording may consist of screenshots and other data. It may be preferable that an OCR may be capable of determining which characters should be grouped together to form words and sentences. It may also be preferable to extract graphical objects that may be deemed offensive or otherwise objectionable. The characters and other objects extracted with OCR represent target components that will be now compared to the benchmark components to determine whether the contact was in violation of certain communication norms or regulations. Other examples of target components may be classified as identifying information such as but not limited to the offender s or victim s interne address geographical location age sex time and date of contacts. An example of OCR software may be Maestro Recognition Server from OCITech however many other OCR platforms may be implemented with the relay server .

The step of comparing said plurality of target components against said benchmark content may occur on the relay server or on the database server . At this point the recording has preferably been processed by OCR software and even converted into a searchable text format. For example a typical chat screen may contain graphical widgets and diagrammatic windowing information in addition to the standard character based conversation of the chat participants. Chat participants may also splice up their messages with illustrations such as smiley faces and animations. Existence of graphical elements will likely lead to errors in a character based searches since a binary file usually combines characters with non parse able or display able symbols. Therefore OCR or another form of parsing or delimiting technology may be highly preferable for separating characters from graphics and other binary objects. Once this is done a standard character search may be performed on the character components of the recording while a binary or object search may be done on the graphical or non character part of the recording. The object of the search may be to extract particular target components their frequency and severity and compare the result against a benchmark content stored on the database .

The recording that has preferably been processed by OCR may then be searched by automated data crawlers such as the data mining module of the present invention or other modules that determine existence of a particular target component within the recording . The analysis of the recording may be based on many algorithms. For example if a user session has transferred a cyber bully type of a recording the algorithm may attempt to initially obtain a user name and or password of the alleged cyber bully and the victim or user of the user session . This information would then be compared against equivalent content within the database to determine whether there was a prior incident involving either of the parties together or separately or whether other contact information may exist for the alleged cyber bully.

Other algorithms may first consult the benchmark database for a collection of target components that may be present in this type of a recording . A character search of the contents of a recording may be used to determine whether any of these terms are present and their frequency. An additional level of sophistication may also be capable of determining the demeanor and predisposition of the author or the alleged cyber bully based on specific phrases their contextual location and of specific speech patterns. Other keywords may be specified manually and compared against the target components present in the recording to determine a match and frequency of the match. Still other algorithms may look for a frequency of something appearing or not appearing where the frequency variable would influence a severity variable or visa versa. Each algorithm or a combination of algorithms used separately or nested may return a quantifiable result. Algorithms look for IP address user or screen name name of the location where the offence is happing which chat room or what website blog or e mail sender time and date speech patterns and keywords. Because one person can use more than one computer and can change their screen or user name we cannot just use one algorithm.

At the end of the analysis the data mining module or the business logic present on the relay server or the database server may determine the level of violation exhibited by the communication content present in the recording. The level of a violation may be assigned a certain grade level or a certain severity description may be color coded or classified in any other manner common in the field. Either the database server or the relay server may be instructed to alert an appropriate regulatory body or division in the event that some preset violation threshold has been breached. It may then be reviewed by a human screener once the screener has determined that this is a true problem then the regulatory body or division preferably represents the third parties that may be allowed access to or hold a unique interest in avoiding violations. Examples of such third parties may be but is not limited to law enforcement agents policy enforcement officials parents guardians school officials or corporate officers.

The step of granting search access of the database to third parties may be included to provide law enforcement and other interest holding third parties with independent or separate access into the database . Such access may be provided with search module such as described in as item .

The step of storing said recording within said database describes a preferable location for storing the contents of a recording . The contents or target components may be placed in a special transactional table space or an additional database that may exist for staging transactional or other temporary purposes. Alternatively there may be a single database for benchmark and target components with the target components being assigned special flags to notify the database server or a third party that is querying the database of the temporary nature of the target components if such access is in fact provided. In another alternative the target components within the recording may be stored within a text file or an object file that is separate from or part of the recording whose content does not become part of the database until step as will be described herein.

The step of utilizing a data mining module to compare said plurality of target components against said benchmark content describes a way of arriving at a violation level and thereby determining whether a notification of third parties is warranted. The violation may be determined by using at least one of the algorithms described in which may be enabled using the data mining module of the present invention. The data mining module may be considered as the most significant part of the business logic of the present invention since it performs the comparisons between target components and benchmarks components and arrives at a level of violation. The business logic or the data mining module may be a collection of several lesser software packages or minor modules or one large module. The data mining module may reside on the relay server or the database server . It may also reside on the icon especially in an embodiment where the icon and the database are part of a self contained embodiment of the present invention.

The data mining module may be written in any of the languages heretofore described or may be written in a separate language using a different architecture. One skilled in the art of software development would appreciate that different components may utilize computer language and architecture that best suits the purpose of the software and that most of the disparate components may be integrated together at compile time run time by using networking architecture or built in software bridges such as compatibility modules.

The step of determining a level of violation compares the result generated in step by the data mining module against an acceptable or reasonable level of similar conversations in the same or similar settings. Since the intended user of the present invention may be a minor or a child where the parents or parties responsible for this child may be seeking to create a safe or at least a defensible internet surfing environment the violation level of some communications may be set to a very low threshold meaning that even a single objectionable or suggestive statement may be considered as a reportable violation. In other environments such as professional settings the thresholds may be adjusted to accept some forms of communications as normal while still maintaining a low threshold on other types of communication. For example where a user is a minor any communication involving sexual messages and innuendoes or any forms of violence or bullying may be strictly prohibited and would immediately create an unacceptable level of violation that would preferably need to be reported to an appropriate regulatory body or even to parents or guardians of the minor. On the other hand in business or professional circumstances where the present invention is being utilized to monitor communication between workers of a construction company or any other settings where a certain degree of vulgarity may be acceptable a threshold on the use of profane communication may be set higher than for a user who is a minor while the threshold on violent or sexually explicit or suggestive language may continue to be low. Preferably the data mining module carries out the step and obtains the resulting level of violation. The data mining module and any sub module may be prompted into undertaking the process and arriving at the result either automatically by internal processing of computer system or by a human operator. Furthermore it may be highly preferable that a human screen is then utilized to corroborate the violation result arrived at by the data mining module or one of its sub modules.

In the present invention it may be preferable that a user may be capable of reporting an attack or an offensive communication anonymously and that the report or the reported incident is not conveyed to the user s parents relatives guardians superiors or business associates. This may be preferred since a user may fear reprisal curtailment of activities or may have been engaging in unauthorized or secondary activities during the incident. However such a user still maintains a right to be free of harassment while law enforcement and other regulatory bodies may still entertain a significant interest in stopping sexual predators cyber bullies thugs gangs or other undesirables. Alternatively the precise reporting structure may be configurable based on the wishes of the user the user s parents guardians superiors or by policy or statutory requirements. The configuration for reporting and for levels of violation may be stored within the database or internally within the data mining module. It may also be preferable that the levels of violation and the reporting structure may be configured within icon and stored in the user system on the relay server on the database server or in the database . It may also be possible that the reporting structure and levels of violation may be sent from the icon as an attribute in the recording or in a supplementary file or data stream.

The present invention may also contain a logging feature that may be accessed by the user or by appropriate third parties such as but not limited to the user s parents or guardians and regulatory or enforcement authorities. Such logging may keep a record of any communication submitted in a record as a result of activating icon . Such functionality may be desirable if a user does not wish for any communication to be sent to law enforcement or in the event that a communication or an application may not be infringing or in violation and yet the user may need to maintain a record for later reference. Such logging may be maintained locally on the user system or remotely on the database . The user may be able to specify what response may be desired prior to submitting a specific recording. For example a user may not wish to report a particular communication to law enforcement but wishes to monitor future behavior in an event that such undesirable behavior continues or escalates. This user may want or need to create a recording for future reference and may communicate his or her preference as an attribute in the recording itself or in a supplementary file or data stream.

The step of notifying third parties of said level of violation may include an action of sending an alert to a subscribing regulatory authority. An alert may be manual or electronic as illustrated in item A informing law enforcement or an appropriate regulatory agency that a violation has been committed and the need to investigate the violation. Regulatory law enforcement and disciplinary bodies may be subscribing to services of the present invention or may be passive recipients of this information A from the present invention. In actuality once the data mining module determines that a level of violation has been breached it generates a message to the database server or the relay server which is then forwarded to the appropriate receiving third party . The information regarding the appropriate receiving third party for a particular message may be maintained within the database or on the relay server or on the database server with periodic updates requested from or received from the aforementioned third parties . It may also be highly preferred that a detailed record of actions taken in step may also be stored within the database and linked to the perpetrator or victim for a later reference or precedence.

The step of integrating said plurality of target components into said benchmark content may be performed at any time during the execution of the claimed method. However it is preferable to perform this step at the end of the claimed method so as to avoid skewing the results obtained by the data mining module in step .

Integration of target components into the benchmark content may be carried out to the database content referring to the parties appearing in a particular recording or may be carried out to the overall benchmark content. For example it may be taken as a present state of knowledge that what is socially acceptable or objectionable may change over time. Additionally some terms or speech patters fade into oblivion and are replaced with modified variations or entirely new statements that may contain the same or similar meaning. To maintain accuracy of the violation results the data mining module needs to compare target components against a benchmark content that is socially current. Therefore a separate module or logic built into the data mining module may be responsible for tracking speech trends to detect an increase or a decrease of use of certain expressions or idioms. This step may also be done manually with the assistance of a human monitor based on statistics of usage or prevalence of terms that may be generated by the data mining module or a separate trend monitoring module. Thus integrating the target components of the present recording may have an affect the overall technique of determining violations.

Step may have a more localized affect. For example the present invention may be used to monitor activities of a particular individual or a group of individuals. Communications by these individuals or to these individuals may be benchmarked according to their prior communication to identify a trend or a pattern. The data mining module may identify a particular individual automatically by using a user name internet protocol address any URL or by individuals or sites contacted by an internet protocol IP address a user or a screen name or any combination thereof. In step any contents of a recording that are attributable to a particular user name may be added to the database as associated with this username for any future analysis.

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system and one or more application programs such as a program for browsing the world wide web such as WWW browser . Such program modules may be stored on hard disk drive and loaded into RAM either partially or fully for execution.

A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer through a keyboard and pointing device such as a mouse . Other control input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input output interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a game port universal serial bus or firewire port. A display monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video display adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers or printers. The personal computer may be capable of displaying a graphical user interface on monitor .

The personal computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a host computer . The host computer may be a server a router a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the personal computer . The LAN may be further connected to a GCN service provider ISP for access to the GCN . In this manner WWW browser may connect to host computer through LAN ISP and the GCN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the GCN.

When used in a LAN networking environment the personal computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface unit . When used in a WAN networking environment the personal computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications through the GCN service provider to the GCN. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the input output interface . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The operating system generally controls the operation of the previously discussed personal computer including input output operations. In the illustrative operating environment the invention is used in conjunction with Microsoft Corporation s Windows 98 operating system and a WWW browser such as Microsoft Corporation s GCN Explorer or Netscape Corporation s GCN Navigator operating under this operating system. However it should be understood that the invention can be implemented for use in other operating systems such as Microsoft Corporation s WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS VISTA WINDOWS 7 and various version of the WINDOWS SERVER operating systems IBM Corporation s OS 2 operating system SunSoft s SOLARIS operating system used in workstations manufactured by Sun Microsystems and the operating systems used in MACINTOSH computers manufactured by Apple Computer Inc as well as for any flavor of UNIX and Linux operating systems available. Likewise the invention may be implemented for use with other WWW browsers known to those skilled in the art.

Host computer is also connected to the GCN and may contain components similar to those contained in personal computer described above. Additionally host computer may execute an application program for receiving requests for WWW pages and for serving such pages to the requestor such as WWW server . According to an embodiment of the present invention WWW server may receive requests for WWW pages or other documents from WWW browser . In response to these requests WWW server may transmit WWW pages comprising hyper text markup language HTML or other markup language files such as active server pages to WWW browser . Likewise WWW server may also transmit requested data files such as graphical images or text information to WWW browser . WWW server may also execute scripts such as CGI or PERL scripts to dynamically produce WWW pages for transmission to WWW browser . WWW server may also transmit scripts such as a script written in JavaScript to WWW browser for execution. Similarly WWW server may transmit programs written in the Java programming language developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. to WWW browser for execution. As will be described in more detail below aspects of the present invention may be embodied in application programs executed by host computer such as scripts or may be embodied in application programs executed by computer such as Java applications . Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that aspects of the invention may also be embodied in a stand alone application program.

Although this invention has been described with a certain degree of particularity it is to be understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of illustration and that numerous changes in the details of construction and arrangement of parts may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention.

