---

title: HUCBC treatment of amyloid associated disease
abstract: Administration of human umbilical cord blood cells (HUCBC) or HUCBC-derived plasma is used to treat amyloid-based diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, cerebral amyloid antigopathy, and type-II diabetes. Modulating inflammatory reactions by infusing HUCBC resulted in a marked reduction of amyloid plaques and immune-associated cellular damage. HUCBC infusion also significantly reduced cerebral amyloid angiopathy in mice models. These effects were associated with suppression of the CD40-CD40L interaction and a reduction in surface expressed CD-40 was observed on immune cells. Further, Aβ phagocytic activity was increased and soluble and insoluble Aβ protein levels were modulated by treatment. HUCBC-infused sera also significantly increased phagocytosis of Aβpeptide and inhibited immune cell CD40 expression and reduced cerebral amyloid angiopathy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402870&OS=09402870&RS=09402870
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09402870
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100216
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Serial Number PCT US2008 073265 filed Aug. 15 2008 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 956 040 filed on Aug. 15 2007 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This work was made with government support under grant number R41AG031586 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and National Institute on Aging and under grant number R01NS048335 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to amyloid protein based diseases. Specifically the invention relates to mediators of amyloid peptide levels immune responses and treatments of Alzheimer s disease.

Amyloid diseases such as Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease and type II diabetes are debilitating diseases resulting from cellularly processed protein agglomerates. Alzheimer s disease AD is the most common progressive dementing disorder characterized by deposition of amyloid peptide A in the brain parenchyma. A plaques are potent activators of both microglia and astrocytes central nervous system CNS resident immunocompetent cells that respond to cerebral amyloidosis by pro inflammatory chronic activation Bussiere T. et al. Morphological characterization of Thioflavin S positive amyloid plaques in transgenic Alzheimer mice and effect of passive A beta immunotherapy on their clearance. 165 987 995 2004. .

Studies have suggested that the A mediated inflammatory cascade not only affects clinical outcomes but also the extent of neuronal injury. Strategies aimed at manipulating this inflammatory cascade including A immunization Chen B. et al. Intravenous administration of human umbilical cord blood reduces behavioral deficits after stroke in rats. 32 2682 2688 2001 Ende N. and IL Chen. Parkinson s disease mice and human umbilical cord blood I 33 173 180 2002. non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAID Cole G. et al. NSAID and Antioxidant Prevention of Alzheimer s Disease Lessons from In Vitro and Animal Models. 1035 68 84. 2004 Henning R. et al. Human umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. 13 729 7392004 Holcomb L. et al. Accelerated Alzheimer type phenotype in transgenic mice carrying both mutant amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 transgenes. 4 97 100 1998 and modulation of microglial activation McGowan E. et al. Amyloid phenotype characterization of transgenic mice overexpressing both mutant amyloid precursor protein and mutant presenilin I transgenes. 6 231 244 1999 Newman M. B. et al. Human umbilical cord blood HUCB cells for central nervous system repair. 5 355 368 2003 Roach T. et al. Behavioral effects of CD40 CD40L pathway disruption in aged PSAPP mice. 1015 161 168 2004 are able to reduce AD like pathology and improve behavioral impairment in Alzheimer s transgenic mouse models and in some cases reduce AD pathology in humans.

It was previously shown that the CD40 CD40 ligand CD40L interaction plays a critical role in A induced microglial activation Tan et al. Microglial activation resulting from CD40 CD40L interaction after beta amyloid stimulation. 286 2352 2355 1999 . Disruption of this signaling pathway reduces cerebral A deposits in Tg2576 mice and improves cognitive deficits in PSAPP mice Tan et al. CD40 CD40L interaction in Alzheimer s disease. 2 445 451 2002 Roach et al. Behavioral effects of CD40 CD40L pathway disruption in aged PSAPP mice. 1015 161 168 2004 . The implication of the CD40 CD40L interaction in AD associated brain inflammatory processes is supported from studies demonstrating increased expression of CD40 and CD40L in and around the amyloid plaques characteristic of the AD brain Togo et al. Expression of CD40 in the brain of Alzheimer s disease and other neurological diseases 885 117 121 2000 Calingasan et al. Identification of CD40 ligand in Alzheimer s disease and in animal models of Alzheimer s disease and brain injury. 23 31 39 2002 . Recently Desideri and colleagues Desideri G. et al. Enhanced soluble CD40 ligand and Alzheimer s disease evidence of possible pathogenetic role. 29 348 356 2007 reported that circulating soluble CD40L sCD40L levels are significantly increased in AD patients versus healthy elderly controls further suggesting an important association between CD40 CD40L interactions and the pathogenesis of AD.

Human umbilical cord blood cells HUCBC have been shown to be antagonists of the pro inflammatory T helper cell type 1 Th1 response as demonstrated in an animal model of stroke where HUCBC infusion promoted a strong T helper 2 Th2 response Vendrame M. et al. Infusion of human umbilical cord blood cells in a rat model of stroke dose dependently rescues behavioral deficits and reduced infarct volume. 35 2390 2395 2004 . This modulation was correlated with reduced infarct volume and a rescue of behavioral deficits Vendrame 2004 . HUCBC infusion has also shown to be a therapeutic benefit in other neuroinflammatory conditions including multiple sclerosis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis neurodegenerative macular degeneration and Parkinson s disease Henning R. et al. Human umbilical cord blood progenitor cells are attracted to infracted myocardium and significantly reduce myocardial infarction size. 15 647 658 2004 Garbuzaova Davis S. et al. Maternal transplantation of human umbilical cord blood cells provides prenatal therapy in Sanfilippo type B mouse model. 20 485 487 2006 . In AD preclinical models administration of these cells into PSAPP mice was associated with life extension although high doses were administered Ende N. et al Human umbilical cord blood cells ameliorate Alzheimer s disease in transgenic mice. 32 241 247 2001 .

Modulation of the inflammatory cascade by several diverse strategies including A immunization non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID administration and manipulation of microglial activation states have all been shown to reduce Alzheimer disease AD like pathology and cognitive deficits in AD transgenic mouse models. However these treatments also possess strong side effects for example an increased risk of bleeding associated with NSAID use. Therefore a safer efficacious AD treatment is needed.

Administration of biological composition of human umbilical cord blood cells or plasma treated with human umbilical cord blood cells to AD transgenic mouse models was investigated to determine in vivo effects of HUCBC on AD like pathology. Double transgenic PSAPP mice and Tg2576 mice were infused with HUCBC or plasma treated with human umbilical cord blood cells and then examined for changes in cerebral A levels deposits astrocytosis microgliosis cerebral amyloid antigopathy CAA and association with the disruption of CD40 signaling pathway.

HUCB cells can be administered as whole cell extracts or a substantially purified mononuclear cell fraction. HUCBC were administered peripherally administering multiple low doses as this administration method appears to be superior to a single high dose treatment in reducing A burden. However both methods of administration are envisioned. In some embodiments the biological composition is administered at or before the occurrence of visible beta amyloid deposits.

CD40 CD40 ligand CD40L interaction was found to play an important role in A induced microglial activation and disruption of this signaling pathway reduces cerebral A deposits in Tg2576 mice and improves cognitive deficits in PSAPP mice. Further supporting these findings Desideri and colleagues 2007 reported circulating soluble CD40L sCD40L levels are significantly increased in AD patients 40 healthy subjects and 77 AD cases suggesting an important association between CD40 CD40L interactions and the pathogenesis of AD.

The biological composition were administered to AD transgenic mouse models to investigate potential AD like pathology reduction through suppression of CD40 signaling. In this regard both double transgenic PSAPP mice and Tg2576 mice were infused with HUCBC or plasma treated with human umbilical cord blood cells and then examined for changes in cerebral A levels deposits astrocytosis microgliosis cerebral amyloid antigopathy CAA and association with the disruption of CD40 signaling pathway. In some embodiments administering the biological composition modulates the phagocytic activity of microglia macrophages and astrocytes allowing control over the inflammatory response to A . In concert with this down regulation of pro inflammatory signaling cultured microglia isolated from HUCBC infused PSAPP mice demonstrated increased A phagocytic activity. This was further exemplified by sera from HUCBC infused PSAPP mice which significantly increased microglial phagocytosis of A peptide while inhibiting IFN induced microglial CD40 expression. Moreover this upregulation of microglial phagocytic activity was inhibited by addition of recombinant CD40L protein evidencing that alterations to cytokine levels modulate the immune response pathways.

In alternative embodiments administering the biological compositions into PSAPP mice resulted in a marked reduction of A amyloid plaques and associated astrocytosis. HUCBC infusion also significantly reduced cerebral amyloid angiopathy in Tg2576 mice. Importantly these effects were associated with suppression of the CD40 CD40L interaction as evidenced by decreased serum CD40L levels and attenuated CD40L induced inflammatory responses. Immunochemical staining and Western blot analyses confirmed a reduction in surface expression of microglial CD40 as well. It was also observed that A amyloid loads were reduced by either crossing Tg2576 mice with CD40L null mice or treating PSAPP mice with CD40L antibody these data suggest that HUCBC infusion confers a mitigation of AD like pathology by disrupting CD40L activity. Moreover administering the biological compositions to Tg2576 mice or PSAPP mice also disrupted CD40L activity and resulted in reduced A plaque burdens and increased plasma A levels.

The treatment methods discussed above are effective at treating and preventing amyloid diseases including Alzheimer s Disease Huntington s Disease and type II diabetes.

 Patient is used to describe an animal preferably a human to whom treatment is administered including prophylactic treatment with the compositions of the present invention.

The term umbilical cord blood or cord blood is used to refer to blood from a neonate or fetus preferably neonatal blood obtained from the umbilical cord or placenta of newborns. The use of blood as a source of mononuclear cells is advantageous due to the relative ease of collection.

The therapeutically effective amount for purposes herein is thus determined by such considerations as are known in the art. A therapeutically effective amount of the umbilical cord cells umbilical cord cell derived plasma or any combination thereof is that amount necessary to provide a therapeutically effective result in vivo. The amount of umbilical cord cells umbilical cord cell derived plasma or any combination thereof must be effective to achieve a response including but not limited to total prevention of e.g. protection against and to improved survival rate or more rapid recovery or improvement or elimination of symptoms associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as ALS neural damage or other indicators as are selected as appropriate measures by those skilled in the art. In accordance with the present invention a suitable single dose size is a dose that is capable of preventing or alleviating reducing or eliminating a symptom in a patient when administered one or more times over a suitable time period. One of skill in the art can readily determine appropriate single dose sizes for systemic administration based on the size of a mammal and the route of administration.

 Umbilical cord cell derived plasma means plasma isolated from the blood of an animal wherein umbilical cord cells were administered. As used herein the umbilical cord cell derived plasma was collected after the umbilical cord cells were given adequate time to elicit a response from the animal.

 Administration or administering is used to describe the process in which umbilical cord cells umbilical cord cell derived plasma or any combination thereof of the present invention are delivered to a patient. The composition may be administered in various ways including parenteral referring to intravenous and intraarterial and other appropriate parenteral routes intratheceal intraventricular intracisternal intranigral among others. Each of these conditions may be readily treated using other administration routes of whole umbilical cord blood a mononuclear fraction thereof or umbilical cord cell derived plasma to treat a disease or condition.

The term essentially is used to describe a population of cells or a method that is at least 90 purified preferably at least 95 purified and more preferably 98 purified. Cells according to the present invention are preferably essentially free of hematopoeitic cells i.e. CD 34 positive cells fractions.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the subject invention can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions. Furthermore as used herein the phrase pharmaceutically acceptable carrier means any of the standard pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can include diluents adjuvants and vehicles as well as implant carriers and inert non toxic solid or liquid fillers diluents or encapsulating material that does not react with the active ingredients of the invention. Examples include but are not limited to phosphate buffered saline physiological saline water and emulsions such as oil water emulsions. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersing medium containing for example ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. Formulations are described in a number of sources that are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Martin E W 1995 Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 19ed. describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention.

Data are presented as mean SD. All statistics were analyzed using a one way multiple range analysis of variance test ANOVA for multiple comparisons. A value of p

Cerebral amyloid plaques angliopathy are reduced in both of PSAPP and Tg2576 AD transgenic mice peripherally infused with HUCBC

HUCBC 95 98 mononuclear cells were administered to PSAPP double transgenic mice to determine whether HUCBC infusion impacts A associated pathology. HUCBC treatment conditions were evaluated against resulting A peptide burden for a single high dose administration of 1 000 000 cells mouse versus multiple low dose administrations of 100 000 cells mouse biweekly for the first 2 months and bimonthly for the remaining 4 months as seen in . The PSAPP mice were intravenuously iv. injected beginning at 7 months of age with 100 000 HUCBC cells mouse biweekly for the first 2 months and bimonthly for the remaining 4 months. This corresponds with the occurrence of visible histological amyloid deposit formation. At 13 months of age mice were sacrificed and evaluated for changes in AD like pathology. A antibody 4G8 immunohistochemistry data not shown and Congo Red histochemistry data not shown evidence the markedly reduced cerebral amyloid pathology of HUCBC infused PSAPP mice compared to control. Quantitative t test image analysis for independent samples analysis revealed significant differences for each brain region examined between PSAPP mice infused with HUCBC PSAPP HUCBC compared to PSAPP mice peripherally infused with PBS PSAPP PBS for both A antibody and Congo red staining P

The effects of HUCBC on cerebral amyloid angiopathy CAA were examined in Tg2576 mice given that peripherally administered HUCBC reduces cerebral A levels A deposits in PSAPP mice. CAA is known to occur in approximately 83 of AD patients and is characterized by A deposits in the cerebral vasculature. Tg2576 mice were used as an AD model as the mice manifest copious amounts of A deposits in cerebral vessels at 15 20 months of age Christie R. et al. Structural and functional disruption of vascular smooth muscle cells in a transgenic mouse model of amyloid angiopathy 158 1065 1071 2001 Li L. et al. Association of aortic athersclerosis with cerebral beta amyloidosis and learning deficits in a mouse model of Alzheimer s disease 163 2155 2164 2003 . The mice were peripherally infused with HUCBC PBS or without treatment n 10 5 5 per group at 12 months of age using an identical procedure. Six months thereafter the mice were sacrificed for analysis of cerebral parenchyal or vascular amyloid deposits angiopathy by Congo Red histochemistry. Tg2576 mice receiving HUCBC treatment demonstrated reduction in cerebral parenchymal and vascular Congo Red deposits compare to controls data not shown . This is notably shown in the hippocampus for Tg2576 mice receiving HUCBC or PBS infusion. Quantitative t test image analysis for independent samples revealed significant differences between Tg2576 HUCBC and Tg2576 PBS or nontreated control groups P0.05 . Cerebral A levels amyloid deposits were also analyzed using A ELISA and A antibody immunochemistry staining for these three groups. Similar to the effects observed in HUCBC infused PSAPP mice Tg2576 mice infused with HUCBC displayed a marked decrease in cerebral soluble insoluble A levels and amyloid loads comparable to PBS infused or control Tg2576 mice P

Microgliosis and astrocytosis associated inflammatory responses are believed to contribute to amyloid plaque formation. Ligation of microglial CD40 enables activation in response to A peptides. amyloid deposits were examined in PSAPP mice for colocalization with CD40 microglia or reactive GFAP astrocytes to determine whether HUCBC could inhibit inflammation using both histochemistry staining and Western blot analyses. CD40 microglial cells were reduced in the PSAPP HUCBC infused group data not shown . Quantitative t test for independent samples revealed significant differences between PSAPP HUCBC infused and PSAPP PBS infused groups P

Increased plasma A levels correlate with decreased CD40 CD40L interaction in HUCBC infused PSAPP mice

Administration of neutralizing CD40L antibody to PSAPP mice results in increased levels of plasma A concomitant with reduced cerebral A amyloid pathology suggesting that depletion of CD40L promotes brain to blood clearance of A Tan J. 2002 . CD40 CD40L is known to promote proinflammatory Th2 while opposing anti inflammatory Th2 responses Grewal I. and Flavell R. CD40 and CD154 in cell mediated immunity. 16 111 135 1998 Mackey M. et al. The role of CD40 CD154 interactions in the priming differentiation and effector function of helper and cytotoxic T cells. 63 418 428 1998 . Further HUCBC treatment is an immunoregulator in animal models of stroke and other neurodegenerative disorders Vendrame M. 2004 Newman M. et al. Cytokines produced by cultured human umbilical cord blood HUCB cells implications for brain repair. 199 201 208 2006 . The method of A level amyloid deposit reduction was investigated for HUCBC infused PSAPP mice focusing on possible brain to blood clearance and suppression of pro inflammatory CD40 CD40L interaction. Individual blood samples were collected from PSAPP mice infused with HUCB cells or PBS for A and sCD40L. ELISA assay revealed increased plasma A levels in PSAPP HUCBC mice inversely correlating with decreased levels of plasma sCD40L in these animals seen in . One way ANOVA followed by post hoc comparison revealed significant differences between PSAPP HUCBC infused and PSAPP PBS infused mice for both plasma A levels and plasma sCD40L levels as seen in P

Cytokine levels were examined after HUCBC administration to determine if HUCBC mediated amyloidosis reduction utilizes the CD40 pathway. If this is indeed true HUCBC treatment should be accompanied by a shift from pro to anti inflammatory cytokines. Blood samples were individually collected from PSAPP mice infused with HUCBC or PBS. ELISA revealed increased plasma A which correlated with decreased levels of plasma sCD40L. One way ANOVA followed by post hoc comparison revealed significant differences between PSAPP HUCBC infused and PSAPP PBS infused mice for plasma A levels and as well as plasma sCD40L levels at each time point indicated P

CD40 signaling is critically involved in microglia related inflammatory responses in the CNS and IFN y strongly induces microglial CD40 expression. Primary microglial cells were treated with cultured media from HUCBC and control cultures or serum from HUCBC or PBS infused PSAPP mice in the presence of IFN 100 ng mL to investigate HUCBC ability to modulate microglial CD40 signaling. After 8 hours CD40 expression was then examined by FACS analysis. Sera derived from HUCBC infused PSAPP mice significantly inhibited IFN induced microglial CD40 expression compared to controls P

Stimulation of microglial CD40 signaling pathway results in impaired A microglial phagocytic activity and promotion of microgial neurotoxic inflammatory responses. Thus HUCBC were examined for the ability to enhance microglial phagocytosis of A peptide. Primary cultures of adult microglia from HUCBC and PBS infused PSAPP mice were subjected to A phagocytosis assay Townsend K. et al. CD40 signaling regulates innate and adaptive activation of microglia in response to amyloid beta peptide. 35 901 210 2005 Lue L. et al. Modeling Alzheimer s disease immune therapy mechanisms interactions of human postmortem microglia with antibody opsonized amyloid beta peptide. 70 599 610 2002 using 300 nM native or A antibody opsonized fluorescent tagged A FITC A . One way ANOVA followed by post hoc comparison of FITC tagged A in cell supernatants or lysates showed a significant increase in A uptake by microglia derived from HUCBC infused PSAPP mice compared to PBS infused PSAPP mice P

The ability of HUCBC derived sera was tested for the ability to increase peripheral macrophage phagocytic activity. Sera 50 g L derived from HUCBC treated and PBS treated mice was incubated at 1 200 1 400 and 1 800 dilutions with primary macrophages from wild type mice in six well tissue culture plates in the presence of 300 nM FITC A . Incubation with 1 200 sera significantly enhanced macrophage phagocytosis of A peptide as seen in and B P

Increased CD40 signaling in AD and reversal through CD40 or CD40L deficiency or via application of CD40L antagonists results in diminished AD like pathology. Infusing HUCBC mononuclear fraction into AD transgenic mice resulted in diminished A amyloid pathology with decreased CD40 signaling pathway activity and association with pro inflammation. In addition to the ability to modulate the immune responses HUCBC also produce a number of neurotrophic factors including nerve growth factor cytokine colony stimulating factor 1 thrombopoietin and IL 11 Vendrame M. 2004 Suen Y. et al. Decreased macrophage colony stimulating factor mRNA expression from activated cord versus adult mononuclear cells altered posttranscriptional stability. 84 4269 4277 1994 McGowan E. et al Amyloid phenotype characterization of transgenic mice overexpressing both mutant amyloid precursor protein and mutant presenilin 1 transgenes. 6 231 244 1999 .

Administration of HUCBC mononuclear fraction into PSAPP and Tg2576 mice resulted in reduced levels of both soluble and insoluble A decreased A deposits and increased plasma A levels. Thus administration of HUCBC to PSAPP mice results in the production of neuroprotective substances including nerve growth factor cytokine colony stimulating factor 1 thrombopoietin and IL 11 that could cross the blood brain barrier and reduce amyloidosis. Infusion of HUCBC mononuclear fraction into PSAPP and Tg2576 mice resulted in reduced levels of both soluble and insoluble A decreased A deposits and increased plasma A levels. Thus administration of HUCBC to PSAPP mice results in the production of neuroprotective substances that cross the blood brain barrier and reduce amyloidosis.

The therapeutic benefits derived from HUCBC treatment may be owed to peripheral effects that signal CNS brain recovery mechanisms affording CNS therapeutic benefit at a number of levels. On the same note cerebral amyloid angiopathy has been demonstrated in 68 of AD patients. A is able to directly activate cultured vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells by upregulating E selectin intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM 1 and CD40 CD40L in these cells. An abnormal accumulation of A in the cerebrovasculature in CAA is associated with degeneration of these vessels Cohen D. et al Amyloid beta protein angiopathies masquerading as Alzheimer s disease 826 390 395 1997 and A is highly associated with intracerebral hemorrhage Cohen et al. 1997 . IFN TNF or LPS stimulation further up regulates CD40 expression Nguyen V. et al. Post transcriptional inhibition of CD40 gene expression in microglia by transforming growth factor 28 2537 2548 1998 Aloisi F. et al. Regulation of T cell responses by CNS antigen presenting cells different roles for microglia and astrocytes. 21 141 147 2000 explaining the higher levels of soluble CD40L levels of AD patients which further contributing to CD40 40L pathway and progression of CAA as well as brain inflammation. Tg2576 an established AD and CAA mouse model infused with HUCBC showed decreased CAA levels by 86 as well as decreased A amyloid pathology. This was concomitant with demonstrated reduction of soluble CD40L in sera from HUCBC infused PSAPP mice.

In adults a balance between Th1 and Th2 cytokine networks has been proposed to be associated with a healthy status. An imbalance between Th1 Th2 cytokines among AD patients clearly favoring the Th1 response in the AD and the reversal by CD40 CD40L deficiency or by application of CD40L antagonists reduced AD like pathology and rescued from cognitive impairment. HUCBC possesses an immunomodulatory role promoting a strong Th2 response IL 4 IL 10 TGF and reducing Th1 response TNF IL 12 . These responses were specific to HUCBC since rodents infused with human adult mononuclear cells HAMNC did not yield any of these results and had similar results as the PBS treated or non treated groups data not shown . This Th2 shift was demonstrated at both the CNS brain homogenates and the periphery plasma and primary culture splenocyte in PSAPP HUCBC infused mice over control group.

One of the main mediators for cytokine imbalance is the upregulation and activation of CD40 molecule. Microglia in PSAPP infused mice have a decreased level of CD40 expression. As a result of or in response to decreased CD40 expression the mice possess attenuated levels of microgliosis astrocytosis and a decreased co localization of A with astrocytes in the brain parenchyma was observed. This is in accordance with decreased Th1 cytokine levels from brain homogenates. Previous reports have shown that HUCBC do not enter the brain and that the observed recovery following a brain injury is mediated through peripheral responses Sanberg 2004 . Thus the HUCBC s mode of action is attributable to modulation of CD40 signaling at the periphery. However HUCBC infused PSAPP mice derived sera were able to reduce CD40 expression in cell culture microglia stimulated with IFN a phenomenon not seen in cell culture media derived from either HUCBC or human adult mononuclear plated cells. Furthermore enhanced A phagocytosis was observed following stimulation with the HUCBC infused PSAPP mice derived sera suggesting CD40 responses are secondary to endogenous CD40 regulators that would normally be induced by the immune responses due to HUCBC infusion.

Transgenic PSAPP APPswe PSEN1dE9 Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. and Tg2576 Taconic Inc. Hudson N.Y. mice were intravenously i.v. treated starting at 7 months of age visible A histological deposit formation of age. These mice were treated with HUCBC 100 000 cells mouse 98 mononuclear cells Saneron CCEL Therapeutics Inc. Tampa Fla. or PBS biweekly for the first two months and monthly for the remaining four months n 10 group 5 . Blood was collected by submandibular bleeding at 0 2 4 and 6 months to monitor plasma cytokine sCD40L and A changes throughout the study. The mouse brains were analyzed for A deposits and gliosis at 13 months of age when the mice typically manifest well established AD like pathology. PSAPP mice deficient in CD40 and controls were treated at 8 weeks of age when A proteins reach detectable levels. Blood was collected by submandibular bleeding at two months following treatment.

Mice were anesthetized with isofluorane and transcardially perfused with ice cold physiological saline containing heparin 10 U mL . Brains were rapidly isolated and quartered using a mouse brain slicer Muromachi Klkai Tokyo Japan . The first and second anterior quarters were homogenized for Western blot analysis and the third and fourth posterior quarters were used for microtome or cryostat sectioning. Brains were then fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde in PBS at 4 C. overnight and routinely processed in paraffin in a core facility at the Department of Pathology USF College of Medicine . Five 5 m thick coronal sections from each brain were cut with a 150 m interval for cingulated cortex CC bregma 0.10 mm to 0.82 mm for entorhinal cortex EC and hippocampus H bregina 2.92 mm to 3.64 mm. Sections were routinely deparaffinized and hydrated in a graded series of ethanol before preblocking for 30 min at ambient temperature with serum free protein block Dako Cytomation Carpinteria Calif. . A immunohistochemical staining was performed using anti human amyloid antibody 4G8 in conjunction with the VectaStain Elite ABC kit Vector Laboratories Burlinganie Calif. coupled with diaminobenzidine substrate. 4G8 positive A deposits were examined under bright field using an Olympus Tokyo Japan BX 51 microscope. Congo red staining was done according to standard practice using 10 w v filtered Congo red dye cleared with alkaline alcohol. These sections were rinsed three times for 5 min each in 70 ethanol hydrated for 5 min in PBS and mounted in Vectashield fluorescence mounting media Vector Laboratories . Congo red positive 3 amyloid plaques were visualized under bright field using an Olympus BX 51 microscope. A burden was determined by quantitative image analysis using threshold optical density and discriminated staining from background. Manual editing of each field was used to eliminate artifacts. Data are reported as percentage of immunolabeled area captured positive pixels divided by total pixels captured . Quantitative image analysis was performed by a single examiner TM blinded to sample identifies.

A microglia co localization was performed using rat anti mouse CD40 1 1000 and rabbit anti pan A 1 100 Biosource International Inc. Camarillo Calif. overnight followed by goat anti rat IgG FITC 1 50 PharMingen Los Angeles Calif. and donkey anti rabbit Alexa Fluor555 1 500 Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. for 45 mm for A microglia A astrocyte colocalization was performed using a biothinylated human amyloid monoclonal antibody 4G8 1 100 Signet Laboratories Dedham Mass. and GFAP polyclonal antibody 1 500 DAKO Carpinteria Calif. . Normal rabbit or normal mouse serum isotype control or phosphate buffered saline PBS 0.1 M pH 7.4 was used instead of primary antibody or ABC reagent as a negative control. Quantitative image analysis was done based on a previous method with modifications. Images were acquired as digitized tagged image format files to retain maximum resolution using an Olympus BX60 microscope with an attached digital camera system DP 70 Olympus Tokyo Japan and digital images were routed into a Windows PC for quantitative analyses using SimplePCI software Compix Inc. Imaging Systems Cranberry Township Pa. . The cingulate cortex region was captured from the image of the cortex adjacent to the sagital fissure and the entothinal region was captured from the image of the cortex ventral to the entorhinal fissure. In images from cingulate and entorhinal regions the cortical edge was not included to allow capture of the full anatomic region of interest. The hippocampus region was captured from between a portion of the CA1 subfield of the pyramidal cell layer and the lacunosum molecular layer. The anatomical locations and boundaries of the regions analyzed were based on those defined Mori T. et al. Arundic acid ameliorates cerebral amyloidosis and gliosis in Alzheimer transgenic mice. 318 571 578 . Images of five 5 m sections through each anatomic region of interest were captured and a threshold optical density was obtained that discriminated staining from background. Each anatomic region of interest was manually edited to eliminate artifacts. For A and GFAP astrocytosis burden analyses data are represented as percentage of immunolabeled area captured positive pixels relative to the full area captured total pixels .

Primary cultured microglial cells were plated in 6 well tissue culture plates at 5 10cells well and incubated with IFN 100 ng mL in the presence or absence of sera derived HUCBC or PBS infused PSAPP mice. Twelve hours after incubation microglial cells were washed with flow buffer consisting of PBS containing 0.1 w v sodium azide and 2 v v FCS and resuspended in 250 l of ice cold flow buffer for fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS analysis as described previously Tan J. et al. Introduction of CD40 on human endothelial cells by Alzheimer s beta amyloid peptides. 50 142 148 1999 . Cells were washed resuspended in flow buffer and analyzed by a FACScan instrument Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. . A minimum of 10 000 cells were accepted for FACS analysis. Cells were gated based on morphological characteristics such that apoptotic and necrotic cells were not accepted for FACS analysis using CellQuest software Becton Dickinson . Percentages of positive cells CD40 expressing were calculated as follows for each treatment the mean fluorescence value for the isotype matched control antibody was subtracted from the mean fluorescence value for the CD4O specific antibody.

For Western blot of brain CD40 expression mouse brain homogenates were prepared from HUCBC I and PBS infused PSAPP mice as previously described Tan J. et al. Role of cD40 ligand in transgenic Alzheimer s mice. 5 1288 1293 2002 . 100 g of total protein of each sample was separated by SDS PAGE and transferred electrophoretically to immunoblotting PVDF membranes. The membranes were hybridized with rabbit anti CD40 antibody 1 1 500 dilution StressGen Victoria Canada for 2 hrs and immunoblotted using anti rabbit HRP conjugated IgG secondary antibody as a tracer and incubated in luminol reagent. To demonstrate equal loading the membranes were stripped with mercaptoethanol stripping solution and re probed with anti actin mouse monoclonal antibody. Densitometric analysis was done as previously described using a FluorS Multiimager with Quantity One software BioRad Hercules Calif. Tan J. et al. 2002 .

Mouse brains were isolated under sterile conditions on ice and placed in ice cold lysis buffer as previously described Tan J. et al. 2002 . Brains were then sonicated on ice for approximately 3 minutes allowed to stand for 15 minutes at 4 C. and centrifuged at 15 000 rpm for 15 minutes. This fraction represented the detergent soluble fraction. A species were further subjected to acid extraction of brain homogenates in 5 M guanidine buffer followed by a 1 5 dilution in lysis buffer. Soluble A were directly detected in plasma and brain homogenates prepared with lysis buffer described above at a 1 5 or 1 10 dilution in dilution buffer PBS 1 BSA PMSF respectively. A was quantified in these samples using the A ELISA kits IBL America Minneapolis Minn. in accordance with the manufacturer s instructions except that standards included 0.5 M guanidine buffer in some cases. A were represented as pg mL of plasma and pg mg of total protein mean SD .

Cell suspensions of splenocytes from individual mice were prepared as previously described Town T. et al. Reduced Th1 and enhanced Th2 immunity after immunization with Alzheimer s beta amyloid 1 41 . 132 49 59 2002 and passed in 0.5 mL aliquots into 24 well plates at 3 10 mL. These cells were treated for 48 hrs with ConA 5 g mL . Supernatants were then collected and assayed by IL 10 TNF and IL 12 p70 cytokine ELISA kits in strict accordance with the manufacturer s instruction R D Systems . The Bio Rad protein assay Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. was performed to measure total cellular protein from each of the cell groups under consideration just prior to quantification of cytokine release by ELISA and cytokine secretion is expressed in pg mg total cellular protein mean SD . To verify whether stimulation of splenocytes produced any between groups differences on cell death that might account for altered cytokine profiles LDH release assay was carried out as described Town T. et al. Reduced Th1 and enhanced Th2 immunity after immunization with Alzheimer s beta amyloid 1 42 . 132 49 59 2002 and LDH was not detected in any of the wells studied. ELISA for IgM and IgG were performed as previously described Nikolic W. et al. Transcutaneous beta amyloid deposits without T cell infiltration and microhemmorhage. 104 2507 2512 2007 and optical densities determined by microplate reader at 450 nm. The ratio of IgM to IgG was calculated by optical density. Brain tissue derived supernatants from the brain homogenates and serum derived plasma samples were analyzed for IL 4 IL 10 IL 2 IFN TNF IL1 IL 12 p70 and TGF cytokines by Bioplex assays Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. USA according to the manufacturers protocol.

Primary murine microglia cultures were seeded at 1 10cells well n 6 for each condition in RPMI 1640 as described previously Townsend K. et al. CD40 signaling regulates innate and adaptive activation of microglia in response to amyloid beta peptide. 35 901 910 2005 . These cells were treated for 60 min with aged A conjugated with FITC Biosource International Townsend K. 2005 . In the presence of FITC A microglia were co treated with sera 1 200 1 400 1 800 dilution derived from HUCBC or PBS infused PSAPP mice in the presence or absence of CD40L protein 2 g mL . Microglia were then rinsed 3 times in A free complete medium and the media were exchanged with fresh A free complete medium for 10 min both to allow for removal of non incorporated A and to promote concentration of the A into phagosomes. Extracellular and cell associated FITC A were quantified using a MSF SpectraMax Molecular Devices with an emission wavelength of 538 nm and an excitation wavelength of 485 nm. A standard curve from 0 nM to 500 nM of FITC A was run for each plate. Total cellular proteins were quantified using the Bio Rad protein assay and mean fluorescence values determined at 37 C. by fluorometic analysis. Relative fold change values were calculated as mean fluorescence value for each sample at 37 C. mean fluorescence value over control . LDH assay was performed on the supernatant to determine the extent to which cell death might have influenced the phagocytic activity in the various treatment groups. Data showed that there was no significant cell death occurring over the 3 hrs time frame in any of the treatment groups p 0.05 .

It is to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

