---

title: Intelligent refrigerator for storing pharmaceutical product containers
abstract: Intelligent refrigerator system for storing pharmaceutical product containers, such as vials, ampules, syringes, bottles, medication tubes, blister packs and cartons, at the point of dispensing. Embodiments of the invention use product identification technology, such as radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags and readers, to uniquely identify containers as they are added to or removed from the cold storage compartment of the refrigerator, and automatically retrieve from a local or remote database a variety of details associated with the containers and their contents, such as manufacturing data, expiration dates, time out of refrigeration, inventory levels, safety information, usage statistics, known contraindications and warnings, etc. If the details indicate that there is a problem with a particular pharmaceutical (e.g., that it is counterfeit, expired, suspect, spoiled, recalled or almost depleted), then a message or warning is automatically delivered to a human operator via an attached output device, such as a display screen, speaker or printer. Embodiments of the invention may also be configured to monitor and report temperature faults, power failures and other anomalies associated with the refrigerator or cold storage compartment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756122&OS=08756122&RS=08756122
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 08756122
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100708
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 913 096 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 775 056 granted Aug. 17 2010 filed on Oct. 30 2007 which is a national stage entry under 35 USC 371 c of International Application No. PCT US2007 60524 filed on Jan. 12 2007 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 60 759 738 filed on Jan. 18 2006 all of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

The present invention relates generally to cold storage systems for pharmaceutical product containers.

Refrigerated pharmaceutical products such as vaccines are very sensitive to rises in temperature and the passage of time. Professionals who dispense these products know that their quality effectiveness and safety depends to a very large extent on the temperature conditions at the location where they are stored the length of time they are stored at the location before being used as well as the total amount of time the products have been outside of refrigeration since they were manufactured.

Generally speaking refrigerated pharmaceutical products are also valuable and expensive which attracts a large number of companies and individuals interested in marketing and distributing generic and counterfeit versions of high demand pharmaceutical products for financial gain. Therefore for health safety and liability reasons professionals who dispense branded pharmaceutical products must also be very concerned with maintaining the appropriate level of inventory on hand acquiring additional products only from authorized sources verifying the authenticity of the products received from authorized sources and keeping track of the location or dispensing of every authorized product container.

Pharmaceutical product containers are usually marked with a product s name manufacturer and expiration date. But these details are usually checked manually and only by visual inspection which can lead to mistakes. These mistakes can have severe long lasting or permanent consequences. Moreover the product s name manufacturer and expiration date are only three of potentially dozens of very significant details associated with a particular pharmaceutical product container which details the dispensing professional may need to take into account at the point of dispensing the product.

For instance in addition to knowing the product s name and expiration date a dispensing professional often needs or wants to know how long the particular product can stay outside of refrigeration without spoiling or losing its effectiveness. She may also want or need to know how long the product actually has been outside of refrigeration either because the product was temporarily removed from the refrigerator or because the refrigerator in which it was kept temporarily lost power. She may also wish to know whether the pharmaceutical product has been recalled whether it is authentic or counterfeit whether the refrigerator where the product is kept is working properly as well as a variety of other significant details too numerous to track manually.

Unfortunately the conventional refrigerators for pharmaceutical product containers provide no way for physicians and other health care professionals to accurately and precisely ascertain these additional product details. Therefore there is considerable need in the healthcare industry for a refrigerator for pharmaceutical product containers which provides a variety of pertinent details about the individual product containers that are inside the refrigerator or that are being added or removed from the refrigerator as well as a variety of significant details concerning the status and operation of the refrigerator itself.

The present invention addresses the above described needs as well as other shortcomings associated with the conventional pharmaceutical product refrigerators by providing an intelligent refrigerator for storing pharmaceutical product containers such as vials ampules syringes bottles jars medication tubes blister packs and cartons which among other things uniquely identifies pharmaceutical product containers as they are added to or removed from the cold storage compartment and reports to a human operator a variety of informative details and or warnings associated with the uniquely identified pharmaceutical product containers. Embodiments of the invention may also be configured to monitor and report to the human operator status anomalies associated with the cold storage compartment and to perform certain functions necessitated by of the occurrence of such anomalies.

More specifically embodiments of the invention automatically retrieve from a local or remote database a variety of details associated with the pharmaceutical product containers and their contents such as manufacturing data expiration dates time out of refrigeration inventory levels safety information usage statistics and known contraindications and warnings. If the set of details indicates that there is a problem with a particular pharmaceutical e.g. that it is counterfeit expired suspect spoiled recalled or almost depleted then a message or warning may be automatically delivered to a human operator via an attached output device such as a display screen speaker or printer. Embodiments of the invention may also be configured to monitor and report temperature faults power failures and other anomalies associated with the refrigerator or cold storage compartment. Embodiments of the invention may include one or more input devices such as a touchpad keyboard or mouse which the human operator may use to provide operational instructions or print reports. Some embodiments also may be configured to automatically reorder pharmaceuticals when the product details indicate that a current inventory of any particular pharmaceutical has fallen below a specified level.

In general embodiments of the invention comprise a cold storage compartment a product identifier a local database an interface to a pharmaceutical product database and one or more processors configured to monitor and manage certain events related to the pharmaceutical product containers. An event occurs for example when a pharmaceutical product container is added to or removed from the refrigerator s cold storage compartment or when sensors indicate that there has been a power failure or an adverse temperature change.

The local database and the pharmaceutical product database are both configured to store a set of pertinent details associated with the pharmaceutical product container such as the name of the vaccine biologic antitoxin or other compound it contains the name of the manufacturer the lot number the date of manufacture an expiration date storage and refrigeration requirements warnings dosage use instructions etc. The pharmaceutical product database which is typically pre populated and provided by the manufacturer of the pharmaceutical may reside on a remote computer system connected to an interconnected data communications network such as the Internet or a corporate intranet or on a permanent or removable memory storage area located within or attached to the refrigerator. If the pharmaceutical product database resides on a remote computer system attached to a data communications network then the interface comprises a network interface to the data communications network. If the pharmaceutical product database resides in a local memory storage area such as a CDROM or flash memory device then the interface will typically comprise a bus and bus adaptor configured to provide a communications path between the memory storage area and one or more microprocessors executing the instructions provided by the one or more event monitoring and event managing processors.

The product identifier can be implemented using a variety of different product identification technologies including but not limited to radio frequency identification RFID tags and readers barcode labels and readers and magnetic stripes and magnetic stripe readers. In some embodiments of the invention for instance an RFID reader and antenna are used to detect and decode a unique identifier called a tag transmitted from a transponder embedded in the pharmaceutical product container. When the pharmaceutical product container with the transponder enters or leaves the antenna s read zone i.e. its reception range the RFID reader decodes the transponder signal produced by the pharmaceutical product container to determine the unique identifier associated with the container. Then the one or more event processors use the unique identifier to perform a variety of actions such as determining whether the container has exceeded a time out of refrigeration limit updating the location information for the container in the local database sending an alert to the human operator of the refrigerator and the like. Depending on the unique identifier received and the set of details associated with the unique identifier the event processor may in some cases do nothing in response to the event for example if a duplicate read of the same container has occurred .

The event monitoring and event managing processor s may be embodied for example in one or more software application programs routines or modules configured to be executed by a general purpose microprocessor in one or more hardware devices such as a programmable logic controller PLC in one or more firmware devices or in some combination of software application programs hardware and or firmware devices. Typically although not necessarily the event monitoring processor hereinafter referred to as the event monitor is configured to monitor and detect new events associated with pharmaceutical product containers placed in or near the refrigerator as well as to monitor and detect new events associated with the refrigerator itself. In some embodiments the event monitor will generate event codes indicating what type of event has occurred. The event managing processor hereinafter referred to as the event manager typically carries out a series of instructions that are appropriate for the particular event that has just occurred. Notably alternative embodiments of the invention may use fewer or more PLCs computer software programs modules or routines to perform the same functions as the event monitor and event manager. In some embodiments for example the functions of the event monitor and the event manager may be performed by the same hardware or software processor.

The product identifier and the event monitor will together determine the unique identifier for the container and what event has just occurred such as whether the product container has been added or removed from the refrigerator. If event codes are used then the event monitor will then generate an appropriate event code. The event manager receives the event code and the unique identifier from the event monitor and depending on which event code was received performs the appropriate action and or transmits the appropriate message or warning to the human operator via an output device attached to the refrigerator.

For example when a human operator places a pharmaceutical product container onto a shelf in the cold storage compartment the container will necessarily pass into the read zone of an antenna located on in or near the shelf. The antenna picks up a self identifying signal transmitted from the transponder embedded in the container and sends the signal to the RFID reader. The RFID reader decodes the self identifying signal to determine the unique identifier tag for the container and passes this information to the event monitor. The event monitor generates an added item event code signifying the fact that a product container has been added to the refrigerator as opposed to being removed and passes this information to the event manager which then executes a series of checks and or other actions associated with adding items to the refrigerator.

For instance in response to receiving the added item event code the event manager will first determine whether the local database already contains the unique identifier and a set of details e.g. product name expiration date time out of refrigeration etc. associated with that unique identifier. If the unique identifier and set of details do not exist in the local database then the event manager knows that this is the first time the container has been put into the refrigerator i.e. it was not put in the refrigerator at some previous time and then temporarily removed . In this case the event manager will access the pharmaceutical product database via the interface and search for the unique identifier. If the unique identifier is found in the pharmaceutical product database then the event manager will copy the set of details associated with the unique identifier from the pharmaceutical product database to the local database via the interface.

If the unique identifier is not found in the local database or the pharmaceutical product database or if the system cannot access the pharmaceutical database for any reason such as a network connection being down then the system will store a record in the local database indicating that there is a pharmaceutical product container in the cold storage compartment with a status that is unknown or suspect i.e. not verified . Some embodiments of the invention will also send a message to this effect to an output device such as a display screen speaker or printer. Preferably the event manager is also configured to periodically attempt to re check the pharmaceutical product database to identify and or verify containers that have been marked as unknown or suspect.

On the other hand if the event manager determines that the local database already contains the unique identifier and a set of details associated with the unique identifier then the system knows that the container was placed in the refrigerator previously and was temporarily removed. In this case the event manager will record the current time the pharmaceutical product container was added to the refrigerator calculate a time out of refrigeration value for the pharmaceutical product container based on the current time and a removal time value stored in the local database and increment a counter or database item configured to track the total accumulated time out of refrigeration for the container.

One of the items in the set of details in the local database contains a maximum time out of refrigeration value for the pharmaceutical product container. Typically this maximum time out of refrigeration value will be supplied by the manufacturer. If the total accumulated time out of refrigeration counter exceeds the specified maximum time out of refrigeration then the event manager will transmit a warning message to the human operator via the output device indicating this fact. Preferably the event manager is also configured to transmit instructions informing the human operator how to properly dispose of the product container.

If the human operator removes a pharmaceutical product container from the read zone of the antenna the RFID reader will detect the removal and determine the unique identifier for the container removed. The event monitor will then generate and pass to the event manager a removed item event code. In response to receiving the removed item event code the event manager looks up the unique identifier in the local database records the time that the pharmaceutical product container with the unique identifier was removed from the read zone of the antenna and sends a message to the output device containing pertinent details about the container just removed such as the product name the time of removal dosing or usage instructions authenticity status etc.

In some embodiments of the invention the cold storage compartment includes one or more temperature sensors that monitor the temperature in the vicinity of the pharmaceutical product containers stored therein. If the temperature rises above or falls below a specified level e.g. rises or falls to a level that will negatively affect the quality and efficacy of the compound in one or more pharmaceutical product containers then the event monitor will generate and pass to the event manager a temperature event code indicating that there is a temperature fault. In response to receiving the temperature event code the event manager will transmit a message and or warning concerning the temperature fault to the human operator via the output device. Such a message or warning may comprise for example warning beeps or a recorded voice message emanating from an attached speaker a text message flashing on an attached display screen or some combination of warning beeps voice recordings and flashing text. Some embodiments also may be configured to send an email message concerning the fault to a human operator via the network interface.

As previously noted the product identifier may be implemented using a variety of different product identification technologies. Some embodiments use one or more antennas located within the cold storage compartment and a radio frequency identification reader. The antenna is configured to convert a radio frequency field produced by a transponder affixed to the pharmaceutical product container into alternating current and the radio frequency identification reader is configured to decode the alternating current to determine the unique identifier. In another embodiment the product identifier comprises a barcode reader that determines the unique identifier by decoding a light energy signal reflected from a barcode label affixed to the pharmaceutical product container. In yet another embodiment the product identifier comprises a magnetic stripe reader that detects changes in a magnetic field produced by a magnetic stripe affixed to the pharmaceutical product container. In this case the changes in the magnetic field represent the unique identifier.

Some embodiments of the refrigerator also include one or more input devices e.g. keyboard keypad mouse touch screen etc. that can be activated by a human operator to provide operational instructions. Such operational instructions may include for example instructions to print certain reports to change the temperature of the cold storage compartment to revise or delete certain items from the local database or to retry an attempt to connect to a particular manufacturer s pharmaceutical product database. The input devices may also include one or more biometric sensors e.g. fingerprint or retina scanners configured to verify the identity and authorization level of the human operator.

If the human operator strikes keys on the keyboard or touches the touch screen for example the event monitor will generate and pass to the event manager an input event code which will cause the event manager to display a prompt and or a menu on the display screen. The human operator can activate buttons on a keypad keyboard mouse or touch sensitive display screen to specify what action she wishes to be performed. The event manager is configured to receive the human operator s instructions via the input device execute the instructions and then transmit an appropriate message or response to the operator via the output device.

In some embodiments of the invention the event monitor is also coupled to a power fail circuit which is configured to detect a power failure condition such as a power outage. When this happens the event monitor will generate and pass to the event manager a power failure event code which causes the event manager to determine the starting time of the power outage and then store the power failure event code and the starting time of the power outage in a status log. Preferably the system is configured to accomplish these tasks on a high priority basis as soon as a drop in power is detected but before the power is depleted. Alternatively the system may be configured to accomplish these tasks while the system is operating under the support of an emergency temporary power source such as a battery or uninterruptible power supply UPS . Such an emergency power source may also be used by the system to power an internal clock designed to keep track of the current time so long as the power failure condition persists.

When the regular power is restored the event manager is configured to warn the human operator that there has been a power failure and also check the time out of refrigeration status of each pharmaceutical product container inside the refrigerator. In particular the event manager will search the status log for the power failure event code. If the power failure event code is found in the status log then the event manager will transmit the message concerning the power outage to an output device and then perform the following actions i determine the duration of the power outage based on the current time and the recorded starting time of the power outage ii cause the product identifier to read the signals produced by each pharmaceutical product container in the cold storage compartment to determine their unique identifiers iii search the local database for the time out of refrigeration counters associated with each unique identifier and iv if the sum of the duration and the time out of refrigeration counter for a unique identifier exceeds a specified maximum then transmit a message concerning the unique identifier to an output device. In alternative embodiments the event manager may be configured to simply update the time out of refrigeration counter in the local database for each pharmaceutical product container and then check this counter at a later time as part of a periodic routine.

As will be discussed in more detail below embodiments of the invention also may include one or more external product identifiers for detecting and reading unique identifiers transmitted from transponders affixed to pharmaceutical product containers located near the refrigerator but not actually placed inside the refrigerator s cold storage compartment. As will be discussed below a human operator may use the external product identifiers for example to acquire details pertaining to individual pharmaceutical product containers without having to put those containers into the cold storage compartment. Such external product identifiers may also be configured to detect and decode the presence of other self identifying items such as transponder embedded employee badges or access keys which may be required to operate embodiments of the invention in secure environments.

With reference to the figures a detailed discussion of exemplary embodiments of the invention will now be presented. Notably the invention may be implemented using software hardware firmware or any combination thereof as would be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure.

Cold storage compartment also includes a temperature sensor such as a thermometer which is positioned to monitor the temperature in the vicinity of shelves A and B and vials A and B. Although illustrates only two shelf supports two vaccine vials and one temperature sensor it is noted that embodiments of the invention may utilize a multiplicity of shelves capable of holding a multiplicity of vaccine vials as well as a multiplicity of temperature sensors. Some embodiments may even be configured to separately measure the temperatures adjacent to each shelf in the refrigerator. Cold storage compartments having interior supports shelves and thermometers suitable for these purposes are supplied for example by GEM Scientific Refrigerator Company www.gem scientific.com located in Philadelphia Pa.

Processor compartment comprises a reader event monitor event manager local database re ordering file and network interface . Reader is an event driven RFID reader whose primary function is to collect decode and pass on information transmitted to the antennas A and B by the transponders embedded in vials A and B. RFID readers and antennas suitable for these purposes may be obtained for example from Tagsys USA www.tagsysrfid.com located in Doylestown Pa.

Reader typically passes the unique identifier encoded in the self identifying signals detected by antennas A and B to event monitor . Event monitor comprises a decision making software program or programmable logic controller configured to react to the presence absence addition or removal of the self identifying signals from the read zone of the antennas tied to the reader. Thus in some embodiments of the present invention event monitor will generate an event identifying code in response to the reader detecting that a tagged pharmaceutical product container such as vial A is currently located inside or has been added to or removed from cold storage compartment . Temperature sensor is also tied to event monitor so that event monitor can also generate a temperature change related event code in response to temperature changes in cold storage compartment .

While event monitor determines what kind of event has occurred event manager selects the course of action to take and carries out the selected course of action. It is event manager for instance which checks and updates local database whenever a pharmaceutical product container is added to or removed from cold storage compartment . When the local database does not contain details associated with the unique identifier acquired from the pharmaceutical product container then event manager utilizes network interface to gain access to a remote pharmaceutical product database not shown in via data communications network . Although shows event monitor and event manager as two distinct components those skilled in the computer arts will recognize that a single hardware software or firmware component or alternatively a multiplicity of distinct hardware software and firmware components may be utilized to implement the functions performed by event monitor and event manager as described herein without departing from the spirit or the scope of the present invention.

Network interface comprises wired and or wireless network adapter cards adapter card drivers network cables application programming interfaces or modems and routers as well as other networking software and hardware typically used to connect a personal computer to an online data communications network. The online data communications network such as data communications network in may comprise for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a dedicated WAN a corporate intranet a virtual private network or the Internet. Data communications network may also include other pharmaceutical product refrigerators similar to refrigerator which allows users to set up and manage a network of pharmaceutical product container refrigerators operating according to the present invention.

As shown in the box labeled input output devices in embodiments of the invention also may include one or more attached output devices which event manager uses to transmit messages and or warnings to a human operator as well as one or more attached input devices which the human operator can activate to supply commands and instructions to the refrigerator. In particular messages and warnings generated by event manager can be displayed on touchpad display printed on printer and or announced on speaker . Alternatively embodiments of the invention can be configured to store information error messages and warning messages in a local or remote log file not shown in which may be accessed by a human operator via the one or more attached input devices or distributed to human operators via e mail web page servers or online information publication services accessible through network interface and data communications link . Printer operating under the control of event manager can also print status inventory product usage and new information reports as well as self adhesive customized pharmaceutical product labels and customized dosing instructions that can be affixed to the pharmaceutical product containers as they are placed into or removed from cold storage compartment . The input devices may include a keyboard or mouse neither of which are shown in a keypad a microphone a biometric sensor such as a retina or fingerprint scanner or some combination of two or more of these devices. As indicated by the box in labeled authentication devices keypad microphone and biometric sensor also may be configured to receive and verify security and authorization data such as user identifications and passwords. The system may also be configured for example to receive security and authorization data through touch operated menus displayed on the touch pad display .

As will be described in more detail below some embodiments of the invention may be configured to notify operators when particular pharmaceutical product inventories fall below certain levels and optionally prompt the human operator to provide an authorization for the system to create and submit a new order to a pharmaceutical manufacturer via network interface and data communications network . Therefore some embodiments of the invention may include a user configurable re ordering file which stores a set of user preferences associated with certain pharmaceutical products. Event manager can utilize the data in re ordering file to automatically create and submit orders. Alternatively the re ordering information for pharmaceutical products can be stored in the local database along with the other details and attributes of those pharmaceutical products. In the case of a data communications network such as a corporate LAN comprising multiple pharmaceutical product refrigerators inventory and re ordering information for the multiple refrigerators may be consolidated and stored in a centralized database so that purchasing decisions and new orders can be based on the consolidated inventory information for all of the refrigerators in a company or organization rather than just a single refrigerator in the network. Preferably the human operator can create and edit the re ordering file by using a keyboard a mouse or both not shown in or by activating and using touch enabled menu screens displayed on touchpad display .

The embodiment of the invention shown in also includes an external reader external antennas and and disposal . External reader and antenna will detect and read self identifying signals produced by transponders attached to pharmaceutical product containers that are located outside of cold storage compartment but which are still within the read zone of antenna . External reader and external antenna are provided so that a human operator can easily obtain pertinent details concerning individual product containers without putting those individual product containers into cold storage compartment .

Suppose for example that the refrigerator is configured so that pharmaceutical product containers are stored inside cold storage compartment in trays and that each tray is capable of holding a large number of pharmaceutical product containers say twenty or thirty individual containers per tray . Suppose further that a human operator removes an entire tray from cold storage compartment which causes the internal antennas A and B reader event monitor and event manager to cooperate to produce a warning message on touchpad display printer speaker or all of them. The warning message indicates that according to the details stored in local database one or more of the pharmaceutical product containers in the removed tray should be destroyed or returned because it has expired or been recalled by the manufacturer.

At this point however the human operator may be holding a tray containing perhaps twenty or thirty containers. Therefore it may not be immediately obvious depending on the warning message and or the number of containers in the tray which containers are bad. One method the human operator can use to determine which containers are bad is to remove individual containers from the tray and return each of them to cold storage compartment one at a time keeping track of the individual containers that trigger additional warning messages. It is far safer as well as far less cumbersome and time consuming however for the human operator to separately move each of the individual containers into the read zone of the external antenna so that external reader which like reader is also coupled to event monitor and event manager can determine and indicate via subsequent status and warning messages which containers are bad. Thus there will be no need to put expired and or recalled pharmaceutical product containers back into cold storage compartment .

Preferably the human operator can place the bad pharmaceutical product containers in an attached receptacle for disposal disposal in having another antenna antenna in which is also attached to external reader as shown in or alternatively attached to reader . When antenna detects a self identifying signal produced by a pharmaceutical product container placed in disposal event monitor is configured to generate a discarded product event code indicating that the identified pharmaceutical product container has been discarded by the human operator. Upon receiving the discarded product event code event manager is configured to update the local database to reflect this fact and print display or announce an appropriate message for the human operator via one or more of the output devices.

Disposal can also be used to discard empty pharmaceutical product containers that is containers for pharmaceutical products that have already been dispensed. The fact that the product has already been dispensed could then be stored in the local database by event manager and optionally uploaded to the manufacturer s pharmaceutical product database. Thereafter if a pharmaceutical product container having the same unique identifier appears in this or another refrigerator users and manufacturers could be warned that the container may in fact be counterfeit. The event manager may also be configured to ask the user via touchpad display for example whether the discarded pharmaceutical product should be automatically re ordered based on data stored in re ordering file .

Although not shown in embodiments of the present invention also include an emergency power supply such as a battery and or uninterruptible power supply UPS which will be activated in case of a power failure thereby reducing the risk that a significant number of pharmaceutical product containers would have to be discarded due to a loss of power and also providing the system with sufficient power during a power failure to carry out a predetermined power failure routine.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practically applied in a variety of different settings where refrigerated pharmaceutical products are usually stored dispensed and or administered including for example physicians offices hospitals and pharmacies. But the invention may also provide significant advantages outside of the usual settings such as in homes and mobile clinics which increasingly have constant high speed wired and wireless connections to data communications networks such as the Internet. Diabetes patients for instance frequently need to store insulin in home refrigeration units for significant periods of time. Physicians combating the spread of viruses and disease in the field often have to work out of mobile clinics such as vans that house among other things refrigeration units containing refrigerated vaccines. In these situations embodiments of the present invention may be used either as stand alone units or alternatively as part of an upgrade kit for a conventional refrigerator to provide potentially critical details about the authenticity quality and status of pharmaceutical products at the time and place where they will be used.

To facilitate the communication and download functions between refrigerators and on the one hand and pharmaceutical product databases on the other data communications network comprises one or more object naming servers shown in as ONS and ONS which provide object naming services ONS for RFID tags. Similar to the role played by directory naming service DNS which provides root directory naming services on the Internet ONS servers store and provide directory information for registered electronic product codes EPCs assigned to individual objects that carry RFID transponders. Each EPC is a unique identification number like a serial number that enables manufacturers retailers wholesalers and end users to track goods as they move through their inventories and throughout the world. Pharmaceutical manufacturers register their EPCs with ONS server operators who program the ONS servers to provide Internet protocol addresses for the manufacturers online pharmaceutical product databases. The online pharmaceutical product databases supply pharmaceutical product container details to client computer systems according to an industry standard known as the EPC information service EPCIS . Currently Verisign Inc. www.verisign.com of Mountain View Calif. manages and operates Internet based ONS servers for use by the public in conjunction with EPCglobal Inc. www.epcglobaling.org a not for profit consortium of RFID industry leaders which provides industry driven standards and designs for a rapidly expanding Internet based EPCIS network. Thus as shown in each one of the pharmaceutical product databases and comprises an EPCIS enabled server shown in as EPCIS EPCIS and EPCIS which provides access to details contained in that pharmaceutical product database.

When a refrigerator of the present invention such as refrigerator connects to the data communications network and supplies an ONS server such as ONS or ONS with a registered unique identifier EPC embedded in a transponder attached to a pharmaceutical product container the ONS server responds by providing the refrigerator with the Internet protocol address for an EPCIS enabled pharmaceutical product database. Having obtained the appropriate Internet protocol address from the ONS server the refrigerator can then connect again via data communications network to the manufacturer s EPCIS enabled pharmaceutical product database and retrieve details associated with the unique identifier and hence the particular container . Where information security is a concern the information transmitted between the refrigerator and the manufacturer s EPCIS enabled pharmaceutical product database via the data communications network may be encrypted.

By utilizing ONS and EPCIS embodiments of the present invention may be configured to provide critical information concerning the distribution and status of refrigerated pharmaceutical product containers to other institutions which have an interest in tracking this kind of information. For instance institutions such as medical research firms and universities the National Institute of Health NIH and the Food and Drug Administration FDA which are represented in as research institution National Institute of Health and Food and Drug Administration can also be connected to a multiplicity of intelligent pharmaceutical product refrigerators via data communications network . Therefore if there were a sudden outbreak of a particular virus or disease the National Institute of Health or the Centers for Disease Control CDC for instance could rapidly determine through the invention and the data communications network the quantity and locations where the necessary vaccines are stockpiled and or stored. On the other hand the FDA which among other things monitors newly discovered adverse events associated with drugs and vaccines also may need to determine rather quickly where such drugs and vaccines are currently located throughout the country. Embodiments of the present invention make it possible for these organizations to quickly collect this kind of detailed information.

If it is determined at step that an event other than an input event occurred then the system next determines at step which type of event occurred. Embodiments of the invention are configured to determine when pharmaceutical product containers are added or removed from the cold storage compartment as well as when one of the external antennas has picked up a signal from a pharmaceutical product container located outside of the cold storage compartment. Thus if it is determined at step that a pharmaceutical product container has been added to the cold storage compartment then an added item event code is generated step and processing will continue at step of by way of flow chart connector FL. If it is determined at step that a pharmaceutical product container was removed from the cold storage compartment then a removed item event code is generated step and processing continues at step of by way of flow chart connector FL. 

Some embodiments of the invention are configured to determine on a periodic basis whether certain problems have occurred such as a temperature or database detail problem. These are referred to as timer events. Therefore if it is determined at step that a timer event has occurred then a timer event code is generated step and processing will continue at step of by way of flow chart connector FL. And finally if it is determined at step that a pharmaceutical product container was brought within the read zone of an external antenna then an external read event code will be generated step and processing will continue at step of by way of flow chart connector FL. The added item removed item timer event and external read event procedures are discussed in detail below with reference to and .

In some embodiments the system will at this point compare the updated total time out of refrigeration to a specified maximum time out of refrigeration for the container and if appropriate transmit a warning message to the operator. In other embodiments the procedure for comparing the updated total time out of refrigeration to the specified maximum will be performed as part of the timer event processing see steps and of discussed below .

If it is determined at step that the tag does not already exist in the local database then the container has probably never been inside the cold storage compartment. Therefore the system adds the new tag to the local database step and checks whether the system has access to preloaded manufacturer data residing in another memory storage location attached to the system such as on a permanent or removable disk drive CDROM tape device or flash memory device step . If the preloaded manufacturer data is not available then the system determines whether the Internet or another data communications network is available step . If the Internet is also not available then the system will store in the local database a marker indicating that the container associated with the new tag is suspect step and the added item processing then comes to an end.

But if the Internet is available then at step the system will look up the details for the tag and the container in a remote pharmaceutical product database using ONS and EPCIS for example . If the tag and the details exist in the remote pharmaceutical product database step then the system copies the details from the remote pharmaceutical product database to the local database step increments any inventory counters in the local database step and terminates processing. If the tag and details are not found in the remote pharmaceutical product database however then the system stores in the local database a marker indicating that the container associated with the new tag is suspect step and terminates processing. As will be discussed below and with reference to the system is preferably configured to automatically retrieve the suspect markers and attempt to verify and or authenticate the suspect product containers at a later time when for example access to the Internet or other data communications network or pharmaceutical product database has been reestablished or when the pharmaceutical product database may have been updated to include information concerning the suspect containers.

If it is determined at step that preloaded manufacturer data is available then the system searches the preloaded manufacturer data for the tag step . If the tag and associated details are found in the preloaded manufacturer data then the details associated with the new tag are copied from the preloaded manufacturer data to the local database step the inventory counters are incremented step and processing comes to an end. But if the tag and details are not found in the preloaded manufacturer data then processing will continue at step where the system looks for the tag and data on the Internet as described above .

If the details for the tag exist in the local database and have not been marked as suspect then the system decrements any inventory counters for the pharmaceutical product step and at step records the time the container was removed from the cold storage compartment and notes in the local database that the container has been removed. Some embodiments will also determine at this time whether the removed container has expired step exceeded its maximum time out of refrigeration step or been recalled step . If any of these conditions are true then the system again displays prints and or announces an appropriate error message or warning for the operator step . But if none of these conditions are true then the system displays prints and or announces that the container has been removed step and prints a label for the container if instructed to do so by the operator steps and .

At steps and of the system reads a tag for a pharmaceutical product container located inside the cold storage compartment and then determines at steps and whether the data can be found in the local database or in a product database located on the Internet. If the details for the tag are found only in the pharmaceutical product database and not in the local database then the system will copy the details from the pharmaceutical product database to the local database step and increment the appropriate inventory counters step . But if the details for the tag are not found in either database then the system marks the container as suspect step and loops back to step to begin processing the next tag. The system is configured to continue looping in this manner until all of the tags inside the cold storage compartment have been read see step .

Once the details have been copied into the local database the system next determines whether there is an inventory shortfall for the tag steps and . If so the system displays an inventory shortfall message step . In some embodiments the system automatically orders additional products from the manufacturer step . In other embodiments the system prompts the user to order additional products by manual methods or sends an inventory shortfall notification message to a centralized inventory database so that re ordering and purchasing decisions can be made using the inventory data from multiple refrigerators. Next the system determines at steps and whether the total time out of refrigeration for the tag exceeds a specified maximum. If so then the system displays a message to the operator indicating this fact step . Next the system determines whether the product has expired steps and and if so displays an appropriate message to that effect step . All of these checks are determined for each container in the cold storage compartment see step . When all of the containers and all of the temperature sensors have been checked timer event code processing comes to an end.

Although the exemplary embodiments uses and advantages of the invention have been disclosed above with a certain degree of particularity it will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of this specification and practice of the invention as disclosed herein that alterations and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention which are intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof. It should be recognized by those skilled in the art for instance that while one of the embodiments disclosed herein relies on the generation and use of event codes alternative embodiments of the invention may be implemented without generating and using such event codes and that such alternative embodiments fall within the scope of the claimed invention.

