---

title: System and method for providing collaborative master data processes
abstract: A system and method for providing collaborative master data process management. A master data store comprises data for at least one data domain. A master data management module is configured to provide access to the data to one or more applications. A master data management service module provides at least one service providing access to the data based on a service-oriented architecture. A business process management module is configured to generate, execute and manage at least one business process related to the data domain. The at least one business process uses at least one of the at least one service provided by the master data management service module. A master data process module is configured to generate at least one data process comprising a business process involving an operation on the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463755&OS=08463755&RS=08463755
owner: SAP AG
number: 08463755
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100630
---
The disclosure set forth herein pertains to the field of computer systems. More particularly but not by way of limitation one or more embodiments of the systems and methods described herein are configured to provide collaborative master data processes.

Master data management systems provide comprehensive data storage maintenance and promote data integrity. For example SAP s Master Data Management Environment system is an integrated system for master data management that uses a Structured Query Language SQL database management system but does not require designers to use SQL for searching sorting and retrieving of information. SAP NetWeaver Master Data Management MDM is a component is used as a platform to consolidate cleanse and synchronize master data within a heterogeneous application landscape. It has the ability to distribute internally and externally to SAP and non SAP applications.

Master data management systems also provide advanced functionality and efficiency. A standard SQL database management system does not support the types of advanced structures necessary for efficiently managing databases of master data. Generally speaking master data systems provide a thick shell of functionality on top of a SQL based DBMS to provide a scalable database where data is fully accessible to other SQL based applications and tools.

Business process management refers to describing organizing and managing business operations in terms of business processes. Technology is used to enhance business process management and to implement business processes. Although master data is an integral part of business operation the current integration of master data management systems and business process management systems is limited.

Increasingly companies and other organizations use multiple enterprise systems to handle business operations including business operations which require access to master data. Furthermore individual components of software and hardware within an organization are frequently changed modified and upgraded. Because of the use of heterogeneous IT landscapes organizations need a pervasive master data management strategy to avoid the rampant spread of inconsistent or redundant data across their systems. Flexible well governed processes for managing and maintaining master data are desirable.

To overcome the problems and limitations described above there is a need for systems and methods that provide collaborative master data processes.

Flexible well governed systems and methods are described for providing collaborative master data management processes for managing and maintaining master data. These systems and methods are capable of providing a multi domain solution for collaborative master data management. These systems and methods may be configured to take advantage of a fully service oriented architecture enable communication based on web services. Furthermore these systems and methods may be configured to allow an authorized user to generate modify and manage collaborative master data processes with almost no coding or configuration or minimal technical expertise required.

In one or more embodiments of the systems and methods set forth in this disclosure a master data management system functionality is exposed as web services and web based data governance user interfaces which are wrapped workflow steps and combined within a logical process flow to provide collaborative master data management processes. These systems and methods extend the native capabilities of SAP NetWeaver MDM and the modeling capabilities of SAP NetWeaver BPM.

One or more of the embodiments described enable a system for providing collaborative master data process management. The system for providing collaborative master data process management includes at least one processor.

The system for providing collaborative master data process management further includes a master data store comprising data for at least one data domain.

The system for providing collaborative master data process management further includes a master data management module configured to provide access to the data for the at least one data domain to one or more applications through an application programming interface.

The system for providing collaborative master data process management further includes a master data management service module. The at least one service provides access to the data for the at least one data domain based on a service oriented architecture.

The system for providing collaborative master data process management further includes a business process management module configured to generate execute and manage at least one business process related to the data domain. The at least one business process uses at least one of the services provided by the master data management service module.

The system for providing collaborative master data process management further includes a master data process module configured to generate at least one data process. The at least one data process involves an operation on the data for the at least one data domain. For example the operation may include verifying selected data belonging to the at least one data domain modifying selected data belonging to the at least one data domain and or adding data belonging to the at least one data domain or any other operation on data for the at least one data domain.

In one or more embodiments of the system for providing collaborative master data process management the at least one data process includes at least one request to a data steward user. The request may include an action to be performed by the data steward user. A next action of the at least one data process is based on an input provided by the data steward user in response to the at least one request to the data steward user.

In one or more embodiments of the system for providing collaborative master data process management the at least one data process includes at least one request to a business user. The request may include an action to be performed by the business user. A next action of the at least one data process is based on an input provided by the business user in response to the at least one request to the business user.

In one or more embodiments of the system for providing collaborative master data process management the master data process module is further configured to generate at least one follow up business process in response to an exception error state reached in the at least one data process. The at least one follow up business process may include a proposed change to the at least one data process in response to the exception error state reached in the at least one data process.

One or more embodiments of the system for providing collaborative master data process management further include a master data process display module configured to display a graphical representation of the at least one data process.

One or more embodiments of the system for providing collaborative master data process management further include process step user interface module configured to generate one or more user interfaces corresponding to one or more data process steps.

The master data process display module may be configured to display a graphical representation of at least one follow up business process in response to an exception error state reached in the at least one data process.

The master data process display module may also be configured to display a graphical representation of a proposed change to the at least one data process in response to an exception error state reached in the at least one data process.

In one or more embodiments the master data process module is further configured to provide a data process design user interface to an authorized user. The data process design user interface allows the authorized user to generate a custom data process template. The custom data process template includes a custom business process involving a custom operation on data belonging to the at least one data domain.

One or more embodiments described enable a computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management. Execution of the computer readable instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to carry out process steps detailed herein.

The process steps include generating a data process template. The data process template includes a business process to be invoked upon a triggering event type. The business process involves at least one operation on data belonging to at least one data domain. In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the process steps further include displaying a graphical representation of the data process template.

In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the at least one operation includes a verification operation for verifying data against the stored data based on the selected data.

In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the at least one operation includes a modification operation for modifying the stored data based on the selected data.

In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the at least one operation includes an addition operation for adding data based on the selected data to the stored data.

The process steps further include initiating a data process in accordance with the data process template based on selected data in response to a triggering event of the triggering event type.

The process steps further include requesting a business action to be performed by a business user involving the selected data receiving a response from the business user regarding the business action and determining a next action following the business action based on the response from the business user.

The process steps further include requesting a data action to be performed by a data steward user receiving a response from the data steward user regarding the data action and determining a next action following the data action based on the response from the data steward user.

The process steps further include using at least one service provided by a master data management system comprising stored data belonging to the at least one data domain to perform the at least one operation on the selected data. The service is provided by the master data management system based on a service oriented architecture.

In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the process steps further include generating at least one follow up business process in response to an exception error state reached in the data process.

The at least one follow up business process may include a proposed change to the data process template in response to the reaching of the exception error state in the at least one data process.

In one or more embodiments of the computer readable medium computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for providing collaborative master data process management the process steps further include displaying a graphical representation of the data process template including the proposed change to the data process template.

A system and method for providing collaborative master data process management will now be described. In the following exemplary description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of embodiments described in this disclosure. It will be apparent however to an artisan of ordinary skill that the present invention may be practiced without incorporating all aspects of the specific details described herein. In other instances specific features quantities or measurements well known to those of ordinary skill in the art have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention. Readers should note that although examples of the invention are set forth herein the claims and the full scope of any equivalents are what define the invention.

Main memory may provide a computer readable medium for accessing and executed stored data and applications. Display interface may communicate with display unit that may be utilized to display outputs to the user of the specially programmed computer system. Display unit may comprise one or more monitors that may visually depict aspects of the computer program to the user. Main memory and display interface may be coupled to communication infrastructure which may serve as the interface point to secondary memory and communication interface . Secondary memory may provide additional memory resources beyond main memory and may generally function as a storage location for computer programs to be executed by processor . Either fixed or removable computer readable media may serve as Secondary memory . Secondary memory may comprise for example hard disk and removable storage drive that may have an associated removable storage unit . There may be multiple sources of secondary memory and systems implementing the solutions described in this disclosure may be configured as needed to support the data storage requirements of the user and the methods described herein. Secondary memory may also comprise interface that serves as an interface point to additional storage such as removable storage unit . Numerous types of data storage devices may serve as repositories for data utilized by the specially programmed computer system. For example magnetic optical or magnetic optical storage systems or any other available mass storage technology that provides a repository for digital information may be used.

Communication interface may be coupled to communication infrastructure and may serve as a conduit for data destined for or received from communication path . A network interface card NIC is an example of the type of device that once coupled to communication infrastructure may provide a mechanism for transporting data to communication path . Computer networks such Local Area Networks LAN Wide Area Networks WAN Wireless networks optical networks distributed networks the Internet or any combination thereof are some examples of the type of communication paths that may be utilized by the specially program computer system. Communication path may comprise any type of telecommunication network or interconnection fabric that can transport data to and from communication interface .

To facilitate user interaction with the specially programmed computer system one or more human interface devices HID may be provided. Some examples of HIDs that enable users to input commands or data to the specially programmed computer may comprise a keyboard mouse touch screen devices microphones or other audio interface devices motion sensors or the like as well as any other device able to accept any kind of human input and in turn communicate that input to processor to trigger one or more responses from the specially programmed computer are within the scope of the system disclosed herein.

While depicts a physical device the scope of the system may also encompass a virtual device virtual machine or simulator embodied in one or more computer programs executing on a computer or computer system and acting or providing a computer system environment compatible with the methods and processes of this disclosure. In one or more embodiments the system may also encompass a cloud computing system or any other system where shared resources such as hardware applications data or any other resource are made available on demand over the Internet or any other network. Where a virtual machine process hardware device or otherwise performs substantially similarly to that of a physical computer system such a platform will also fall within the scope of disclosure provided herein notwithstanding the description herein of a physical system such as that in .

One or more embodiments are configured to enable the specially programmed computer to take the input data given and transform it into a web based UI by applying one or more of the methods and or processes described herein. Thus the methods described herein are able to transform a stored component into a web UI using the solution disclosed here to result in an output of the system as a web UI design support tool using the specially programmed computer as described herein.

Master data management system includes master data management module master data store and master data management service module . Master data management module master data store and master data management service module reside in at least one computer memory component on one or more computer systems.

Master data management module master data store and master data management service module may be configured to communicate directly via a communication interface such as communication infrastructure . Master data management module master data store and master data management service module may also be configured to communicate over one or more networks such as communication path . Communication path may include one or more networks such as Local Area Networks LAN Wide Area Networks WAN wireless networks optical networks distributed networks the Internet or any combination thereof.

Master data store is configured to store data such as master data. Master data store resides in at least one module of computer memory. Master data stored in master data store may be stored using a database schema associated with master data management system .

Master data store may be configured to store data belonging to at least one data domain. As used herein the term data domain refers to possible values for a set of data that may be stored in master data store using at least one attribute. For example data domains may include Customers Products Accounts Assets Materials Vendors Suppliers or any other set of data that may be described and stored in master data store using at least one attribute. One or more embodiments of master data management module provide a multi domain data solution for enterprise data thereby supporting multi domain collaborative master data process management.

Master data management module includes one or more programs or applications configured to access to master data store . Master data management module may access the master data stored in master data store using a database schema associated with master data management system .

Master data management module may be further configured to provide access to master data store to one or more applications . Applications include any executing computer program code configured to access master data store such as through an application programming interface API provided by master data management module . In one or more embodiments applications include one or more legacy applications integrated with master data management module to synchronize legacy systems with current data thereby achieving continued usability of legacy applications. Applications may access master data management system by communicating with master data management module . For example read and write access as well as database operations may be requested by applications through the API via master data management module in order to access master data in master data store .

Master data management service module also provides access to master data through services such as web based services. Master data management service module provides at least one service based on a service oriented architecture. The at least one service may be made available for access over a communication path . Communication path may include one or more networks such as Local Area Networks LAN Wide Area Networks WAN wireless networks optical networks distributed networks the Internet or any combination thereof. Communication path may also include a communication infrastructure within a computer system such as communication infrastructure .

System further includes business process management module . Business process management module is configured to generate execute and manage at least one business process. As used herein the term business process refers to any sequence of one or more tasks or activities to achieve a business purpose. The business process may include fully automated tasks partially automated tasks and fully manual tasks to be performed or supervised by a user.

A business process may be invoked upon the occurrence of a triggering event. A triggering event made include any event requiring action within the scope of business operation such as order placement customer acquisition marketing events audit events business changes customer contact receipt of information from an external source transfer of information within an organization system updates staffing changes or any other event requiring at least one action within the scope of business operation.

In one or more embodiments business process management module manages at least one business process related to at least one data domain stored in master data store . Business process management module may be configured to manage at least one business process related to multi domain data. At least one business process managed by business process management module may use at least one service provided by master data management service module .

Master data management module master data store and master data management service module may be configured to communicate over one or more networks such as communication path . Business process management module and master data management system may also be configured to communicate directly via a communication interface such as communication infrastructure . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that when business process management module communicates with master data management system many methods for connection are available which are within the scope and spirit of the invention. For example business process management module may access services provided by master data management service module through a service oriented architecture. Business process management module may also access master data management system through an application programming interface API via master data management module in order to access master data in master data store .

Business process management module includes master data process module . One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that master data process module may be implemented as an independent software module within business process management module an integrated feature of general business process management implemented in business process management module or any other degree of integration without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. Master data process module is configured to generate at least one data process involving an operation on data for at least one data domain managed by master data management system . As used herein the term data process refers to a business process involving an operation on data belonging to at least one data domain. The operation may be any operation related to the at least one data domain such as verifying selected data modifying selected data and adding additional data. One or more embodiments of master data process module are configured to generate business processes involving operations on multi domain data.

Business process management module is configured to manage data processes generated by master data process module . One or more embodiments of business process management module are configured to manage business processes involving operations on multi domain data.

The data process may be generated in accordance with a data process template. As used herein the term data process template refers to any set of information usable to describe a business process to be invoked upon a triggering event type specified by the data process template.

In one or more embodiments master data process module is configured to provide a data process design user interface to a user authorized to generate data process template. The data process design user interface allows the authorized user to generate a custom data process template. The custom data process template includes a custom business process involving a custom operation on data for at least one data domain.

A data process generated by master data process module may include at least one request to a user. The request may include an action to be performed by the user where a next action of the data process is based on an input provided by the user in response to the request. The requests are further detailed below with respect to two user types a data steward user and a business user. However a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that data processes may request actions from multiple users of any user type without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention.

A data process generated by master data process module may include at least one request to a data steward user. As used herein the term data steward user is broadly defined to include any user with some level of authorization to access master data management system . The request may include an action to be performed by the data steward user where a next action of the data process is based on an input provided by the data steward user in response to the request.

For example a data steward user may be requested to perform an action involving data such as verifying new or modified data with an internal data source or an external data source checking data integrity checking data accuracy checking data relationships before the removal or modification of data or any other action that the data steward user has authority to perform within the scope of his employment.

A data process generated by master data process module may include at least one request to a business user. In one or more embodiments the term business user may be broadly defined to include any user without administrative privileges in master data management system . Alternatively the term business user may be broadly defined to include any user with authority to approve an action related to the master data without excluding users with administrative privilege in master data management system . The request may include an action to be performed by the business user where a next action of the data process is based on an input provided by the business user in response to the request.

For example a business user may be requested to perform an action involving reviewing an action of another user confirming proposed changes acknowledgment of a notification initiating a business process in response to an error state or any other action that the business user has authority to perform within the scope of his employment.

In one or more embodiments master data process module is further configured to generate at least one follow up business process in response to an error state reached in a data process. In one or more embodiments master data process module is configured to recognize an error state when a type of error occurs for which follow up action is desirable. Follow up action may include verification of data with an internal data source or an external data source auditing data auditing software and hardware systems auditing employee actions auditing existing business processes and data processes or any other follow up action in response to an error of a type for which follow up action is desirable. For example the error state may be reached based on input from a business user in response to a request input from a data steward user in response to a request an error indicated by a hardware or software element of master data management system or business process management module or any other occurrence resulting in arrival at an error state. In one or more embodiments the error state is an exception error state that potentially requires a change of the data process. The follow up business process may include a proposed change to the data process template for the data process associated with the exception error state.

In one or more embodiments business process management module optionally includes master data process display module . Master data process display module is configured to display a graphical representation of one or more data processes generated by master data process module . In one or more embodiments the graphical representation includes a flowchart view of at least a portion of one or more data processes. Master data process display module may be further configured to display a graphical representation of at least one follow up business process in response to an exception error state associated with a data process that potentially requires a change of the data process. Master data process display module may be further configured to display a graphic or presentation of a proposed change to the data process template for the data process associated the exception error state.

In one or more embodiments business process management module optionally includes process step user interface module . Process step user interface module is configured to generate one or more user interfaces corresponding to one or more data process steps. The generation of the one or more user interfaces may be fully or partially automated and or fully or partially customizable. During execution of a data process step the corresponding user interface is provided to one or more users such as a business user and or a data steward user.

Processing continues to step where a data process is initiated. The data process may be initiated by a user a web service a request form a user interface or any other triggering event for the data process. The data process may require the performance of an operation involving any addition modification or deletion of master data related to one or more data domains managed by a master data management system in accordance with systems and methods for providing collaborative master data process management.

Processing continues to step where a request to perform a data operation is made to the data steward user. For example the data operation may include verifying selected data in the at least one data domain modifying selected data from the at least one data domain adding additional data to the at least one data domain and or any other operation on data for the at least one data domain.

Processing continues to decision step where the data steward user provides input indicating whether or not the data steward user successfully performed the data operation. If the data steward user indicates that the operation is successful processing continues to step . Otherwise processing continues to step where an error state is determined. From the determination of the error state at step processing continues to step .

Returning step a request is made to the business user to review the previous action of the data steward user at step . In one or more embodiments the request at step may be made to either a different business user or the same business user who initiated the data request of step .

Processing continues to decision step where the business user provides input indicating whether or not the business user confirms the action as previously requested in step . If the business user indicates confirmation processing continues to step . Otherwise if the business user does not confirm the activity processing continues to step where a roll back to the initial state is performed. From the roll back at step processing then continues to step .

At step a request is made to the data steward user to review the operation and to give final approval. In one or more embodiments the request at step may be made to either a different data steward user or the same data steward user requested to perform the data operation at step . In one or more embodiments step is an automated activity that occurs under the supervision of the data steward user such as a service call.

Processing continues to decision step where the data steward user provides input indicating whether or not the data steward user gives final approval. If the data steward user gives final approval processing continues to step . Otherwise if the data steward user does not give final approval processing continues back to step and the data process is repeated.

At step notifications of the actions results and any errors are sent. For example notifications may be sent to participant users such as the business user and data steward user nonparticipant users and or applications. Different notifications may be sent based on the actual result of the data process. Notifications may be provided through a custom application or by any traditional method of notification including electronic messaging systems such as e mail SMS message MMS message system notifications or any other electronic messaging service.

Processing continues to step where a first user initiates a data request. The data request may include any addition modification or deletion of data related to one or more data domains managed by a master data management system in accordance with systems and methods for providing collaborative master data process management.

Processing continues to step where a request to perform a data operation is made to a second user. For example the data operation may include verifying selected data in the at least one data domain modifying selected data from the at least one data domain adding additional data to the at least one data domain and or any other operation on data for the at least one data domain.

Processing continues to step where the second user provides input indicating whether or not the second user has successfully performed the data operation. If the second user indicates that the operation is successful processing continues to step . Otherwise processing continues to step where an error state is determined.

At step a request is made to the first user to review the previous action of the second user at step . In one or more embodiments the request at step is made to a third user.

Processing continues to decision step where the first user provides input indicating whether or not the first user has confirmed the action as previously requested in step . If the first user indicates confirmation processing continues to step . Otherwise if the first user does not confirm the activity processing continues to step where an error state is determined.

Processing continues to step where the request is sent to an n th user to give final confirmation. Processing continues to decision step where the n th user provides input indicating whether or not the paste n th user gives final approval. If the n th user gives final approval processing continues to step . In one or more embodiments steps are an automated activity that occurs under the supervision of the data steward user such as a service call.

Returning to step where an error state is determined. Processing continues to step where any changes made to the master data management system are rolled back such that the master data management system is in the initial state prior to the initiation of process . Processing continues to step .

At step notification of the actions results and any errors are sent. For example notifications may be sent to participant users nonparticipant users and or applications. Different notifications may be sent based on the actual result of the data process. Notifications may be provided through a custom application or by any traditional method of notification including electronic messaging systems such as e mail SMS message MMS message system notifications or any other electronic messaging service.

Processing continues to step where a data process template for a triggering event type is generated. For example a data process template may be generated for triggering event types such as order placement customer acquisition marketing events audit events business changes customer contact system updates staffing changes or any other event type requiring action within the scope of business operation.

In one or more embodiments a data process design user interface is provided to allow an authorized user to generate a custom data process template. The custom data process template includes a custom business process involving custom operation on data for at least one data domain. In one or more embodiments the custom business process involves a custom operation on multi domain data.

Processing continues to step where a data process for selected data is initiated upon a triggering event of the triggering event type. The data process is initiated in accordance with the data process template associated with the triggering event type. For example the triggering event types may be order placement customer acquisition marketing events audit events business changes customer contact system updates staffing changes or any other event type requiring action within the scope of operation for an organization.

Processing continues to step where a business action is requested from a business user. For example the business action may include at least one of verifying data with an external source approving a previous action by another user approving an automated action by a computer application coordinating with another user contacting another individual or company making a business decision or any other action the business user has authority to perform within the scope of his employment.

Processing continues to step where a response is received from the business user. The response includes input from the business user regarding the performance of the requested business action by the business user.

Processing continues to step where the next action of the data process is determined based on the response from the business user.

Processing continues to step where a data action is requested from a data steward user. For example the data action may include at least one of verifying data with an external source approving a previous action by another user approving an automated action by a computer application interacting with a master data management system interacting with another software application modifying a master data management system modifying another software application modifying one or more hardware or software configurations coordinating with another user contacting another individual or company or any other action the data steward user has authority to perform within the scope of his employment.

Processing continues to step where a response is received from the data steward user. The response includes input from the data steward user regarding the performance of the requested data action by the data steward user.

Processing continues to step where the next action of the data process is determined based on the response from the data steward user.

Processing continues to step where a data process template for triggering event type is generated. For example the triggering event types may be order placement customer acquisition marketing events audit events business changes customer contact system updates staffing changes or any other event type requiring action within the scope of operation for an organization.

In one or more embodiments a data process design user interface is provided to allow an authorized user to generate a custom data process template. The custom data process template includes a custom business process involving a custom operation on data for at least one data domain. In one or more embodiments the custom business process involves a custom operation on multi domain data.

Processing continues to step where a data process for selected data is initiated upon a triggering event of the triggering event type. The data process is initiated in accordance with the data process template associated with the triggering event type.

Processing continues to step where a response is received from the user. The response includes input from the user regarding the performance of the requested action by the user.

Processing continues to step where it is determined whether an exception error state has been reached based on the response received from the user. In one or more embodiments master data process module is configured to reach an exception error state when a type of error occurs that potentially requires a change of the data process. Multiple error types may be considered in which case step differentiates between an error type which the data process is designed to handle and an exception error state that potentially requires a change of the data process. The exception error state may be reached when a sitation arises that the data process is not designed to handle. In one or more embodiments when a frequency of occurrence of errors of a type the data process is designed to handle becomes high is determined that an exception error state is reached and to be appropriate to consider a change in the data process. One or more embodiments include multiple types of exception error states.

Processing continues to step where a business process is generated in response to the exception error state. In one or more embodiments the business process generated in response to the exception error state is directed to changing the data process template that the data process generating the exception error state is based on. For example the business process may involve a review of the data process template in view of the triggering event and selected data.

Processing continues to step where an action is requested from an authorized user. The authorized user includes any user with authority to approve changes to a data process template.

Processing continues to step where the data process template for the triggering event type is successfully changed through the business process generated in response to the exception error state reached in the data process.

One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that systems and methods for providing collaborative master data process management may include steps to be performed in parallel without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. is a diagram outlining a parallel data process in accordance with one or more systems and methods for providing collaborative master data process management.

Process begins at step and continues to step where a data operation is initiated. Processing continues to steps where requests are sent to multiple users to perform multiple actions associated with the data operation initiated in step . Processing continues to step where the process awaits input from the multiple users in response to the multiple actions.

Processing continues to decision step where it is determined whether or not all required input is received. If the required input is not yet received processing continues to step where reminder notifications are sent regarding the missing input. In one or more embodiments reminder notifications are sent to users who have not provided input within a predetermined period of time. A reminder notification may be sent to an administrative user after a prolonged period such as after multiple reminders not shown . Notifications may be provided through a custom application or by any traditional method of notification including electronic messaging systems such as e mail SMS message MMS message system notifications or any other electronic messaging service.

Returning to decision step after the required input is received processing continues to step where a next action is determined based on input received. For example if all users indicate the successful performance of their assigned actions the next action may include review and confirmation steps. If any user indicates failure the next action may include a rollback error handling reevaluating a data process template associated with the data process an action by another user to address a condition causing the failure or any other appropriate action based on the input received from the multiple users.

While the invention herein disclosed has been described by means of specific embodiments and applications thereof numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention set forth in the claims.

