---

title: Scalably imaging clients over a network
abstract: Techniques exist for imaging clients over a network, such as the preboot execution environment (PXE) protocol. However, such techniques may not scale well (e.g., using broadcast messages and having few facilities for distributing the imaging service over several servers) and limited capacity to choose a particular image for a particular client. Instead, a set of servers may be configured such that each server is assigned a set of clients, and when a client sends an imaging query, only the server to which the client is assigned sends a reply. For example, a PXE server also comprising a DHCP server may reply to queries only for clients having a DHCP reservation on the server. The servers may also be configured to refer to a network map (e.g., a manageability data store) in order to identify the role of the client and the appropriate image to direct the client to apply.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412769&OS=08412769&RS=08412769
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08412769
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
Within the field of computing many scenarios involve the use of a computer network wherein computers connecting to the network are assigned a network address. In a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP scenario a computer may while joining a network issue a request to have a network address assigned to a particular network adapter and a server that is tasked with managing the assignment of network addresses for the network e.g. a DHCP server may choose a previously unassigned network address and transmit it to the computer. Moreover the DHCP server may comprise one or more reservations that associate a particular computer identified e.g. according to a Media Access Control MAC address assigned to the hardware of a network adapter of the computer with a particular network address such that the computer is consistently assigned the same network address upon connecting to the network.

Additionally each computer generates a computing environment such as an operating system a set of drivers configured to operate various components of the computer and a set of running processes by storing instructions in one or more locations in memory e.g. system memory a hard disk drive a solid state storage component and a magnetic or optical disc . It may be desirable to permit one or more computers of the network to receive and apply an image comprising a set of instructions that if written in particular locations in the memory of the computer configure the computing environment in a particular manner. For example an administrator may create a set of images each representing the memory contents of a computer operating a particular set of hardware components via a particular set of drivers and having a particular operating system and set of applications or processes. In order to configure a particular computer instead of configuring the computer in an ad hoc manner e.g. by wiping the contents of a hard disk drive installing an operating system and a set of drivers corresponding to the hardware components of the computer and installing and configuring a set of applications the administrator may simply select the appropriate image for application to the computer to achieve the same configuration thereby reducing the involvement of the administrator in the configuration of the computer. Such techniques may be particularly advantageous e.g. where the administrator is responsible for managing a large set of computers having a small set of configurations such as a server farm comprising many computers having a similar set of hardware components and configured in a similar manner such that an image may be applied to many computers to produce a consistent and easily achieved configuration of each computer.

Where a large set of computers is connected over a network it may be advantageous to permit computers to discover and retrieve images over the network for local application. A particular technology identified as a preboot execution environment PXE is provided to permit a computer upon booting to broadcast a request over the network for a PXE server to identify the location of an image to be retrieved and applied by the computer. A PXE server located on the same network may respond to the request by identifying the location of a particular image on the network to be used by the computer and the computer may proceed to retrieve the image and apply it as part of the boot cycle.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While various techniques exist for imaging a computer over a network these techniques often exhibit some disadvantages. As a first example in a large network it may be undesirable for a computer to broadcast messages over the network since the broadcast message is often received and processed by every other computer on the network. As a second example in a large network it may be disadvantageous to configure a single server to retrieve and identify requests from a large set of computers since the use of a single server process may reduce the scalability of the network e.g. the server may be unable to handle requests from a large number of computers such as a large number of concurrently booting computers may degrade the performance of the network may result in significant duplication of messages and may represent a single point of failure that may jeopardize the operation of the entire network. As a third example while multiple servers may be configured to handle requests to direct booting clients to images a request from a booting computer may be handled by several servers thereby unnecessarily increasing network traffic and potentially causing consistency problems or race conditions e.g. if two servers direct a client to apply two different images . As a fourth example it may be difficult for a server to identify which image is to be applied by a particular client.

Presented herein are techniques for providing for the imaging of computers over a network in a scalable and efficient manner. These techniques involve configuring respective servers on the network to manage a particular set of clients such as a set of computers assigned to a particular role. Upon booting a client may issue an imaging query to have an image identified for receipt and application e.g. a PXE query . A server that receives the imaging query may determine whether or not the server is responsible for managing the client. For example the client may issue the PXE query as part of a DHCP query while joining the network and the server also configured as a DHCP server may determine its responsibility for administrating the client by determining whether it comprises a DHCP reservation for the client. If the server is responsible for administrating the client the server may determine whether the client is directed to apply an image during the current boot cycle. For example the server may have access to a network map that indicates a target image version that the client is directed to use and may determine whether the client is currently using the target image version or is using a different image version. If the server determines that the client is directed to use a different image the server may provide the image or may identify the location of the image on the network e.g. as part of a PXE command . In other circumstances e.g. where the server is not responsible for administrating the client or where the server determines that the image version of the client is up to date the server may withhold a response. In this manner servers and clients may be configured to communicate efficiently over the network with a reduced amount of chatter and fewer broadcast packets.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a network connecting a set of computers each having a network address. Various servers may be positioned on the network to provide administrative services for the computers of the network. As one example in order to avoid network address collisions where two or more computers attempt to use the same network address a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP server may be provided on the network to allocate network addresses to computers. For example when a computer first requests to connect to the network a DHCP server may receive the request to connect allocate a previously unallocated network address for the computer and send the network address to the computer during the handshake or connection process. Additionally the DHCP server may reserve one or more network addresses for particular computers. For example when a computer requests to connect to the network it may transmit an identifier such as a Media Access Control MAC address assigned to a network card. The DHCP server may examine a list of reservations mapping identifiers to reserved network addresses and upon identifying a reservation specifying the identifier of the computer may allocate and transmit to the computer the reserved network address. In many implementations the reservations of the DHCP server are manually configured by an administrator based on knowledge of the details of the network. In this way the DHCP server may consistently assign particular network addresses to particular known computers while allocating for other computers a network address from among the pool of unreserved and dynamically assigned network addresses.

Another aspect of such networking scenarios involves the configuration of the computers of the network. In a managed network for computers having similar sets of hardware components and or similar roles or responsibilities in the networking scenario an administrator may endeavor to implement a similar software configuration for computers having similar characteristics. Therefore instead of configuring each computer manually e.g. by formatting the hard disk drive and then installing and configuring an operating system a set of software drivers corresponding to the hardware components of the computer and a set of software applications or running processes an administrator may prepare an image to be used as a configuration template for the similar set of computers. For example the administrator may configure one computer as desired may capture a snapshot of the configuration e.g. a representation of the contents of memory components of the computer such as system memory and one or more hard disk drives and may overwrite the contents of memory components of computers having similar characteristics with the contents of the image thereby achieving a similar configuration of such computers with a reduced degree of user interaction of the administrator. Such configuration techniques may promote the easy and consistent configuration of computers including brand new computers that have similar characteristics to established computers on the network and remediation of configuration data on one or more computers that has become corrupted or faulty.

Imaging techniques may be advantageous for facilitating the administration of a large set of computers. As a first example an organization such as a university may regularly purchase batches of computers for deployment in various contexts e.g. a low powered set of computers to be deployed as library terminals a medium powered set of computers to be deployed for office productivity and a high powered set of computers to be deployed for use in academic research . As a second example an organization such as a search engine or an e commerce provider may utilize a server farm in various contexts where the requests of all users may not be adequately fulfilled by a single server but may involve a multitude of servers that operate in the same role in order to distribute the computational burden of the requests. In both such scenarios the administration thereof may be facilitated by developing one image for each batch of similarly equipped computers such that an administrator may quickly and easily address the corruption of the configuration of a computer the replacement of a faulty computer with a new computer or the scaling of the network tasks to handle additional requests by adding new computers and by using corresponding images to configure a computer according to its characteristics.

However earlier imaging technologies relied on a portable medium e.g. a CD ROM or DVD ROM optical disc that contained the image and that was inserted into a removable medium device. Such techniques may be undesirable for networks deployed over a large area such as a large Ethernet deployment spanning several levels of a large building or a wireless network covering several buildings or even a large geographic area. In these scenarios physically accessing each computer to be imaged may be inefficient. Accordingly further techniques have been developed to achieve the imaging of a computer over the network based on an object such as a file comprising an image that may be transmitted over the network to the computer and applied thereby. One such technique involves a preboot execution environment PXE configuration wherein a computer is configured as part of the boot cycle to broadcast an imaging query over a network. A PXE server that receives the broadcast query may reply with an image location e.g. a network path indicating where the computer may locate an image to be applied during the boot cycle. The computer may then retrieve the image over the network and apply it to achieve a configuration over the network without involving physical access to the computer.

While the techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of present some advantages some aspects may be inefficient or limited. As a first example in some implementations of PXE some messages are communicated via broadcast resulting in the delivery of a message to all computers on the network accordingly such techniques may be difficult to scale to a network featuring thousands of computers because network traffic from broadcast messages may deplete network capacity and increase latency. As a second example the exemplary scenario of features a single server and a single image server which may be inadequate for servicing requests from a large number of clients in a large network . Such problems may be exacerbated e.g. if many clients are rebooted in a short time frame or are directed to check for and install an image such as following a restoration of power after a power failure or a network rejoining following a partitioning. As an alternative an administrator may endeavor to deploy several servers but in many implementations such efforts may create additional complications. For example broadcast messages sent from booting clients may be intercepted by several servers such that the computational load of handling PXE requests placed on the single server in the exemplary scenario of is simply multiplied across several PXE servers . An even more significant problem may arise if due to inadequate interoperation among the servers or synchronization delays several servers respond to the imaging query with imaging commands directing the client to use different images . In this case the client may arbitrarily choose one imaging command and may ignore the others or may attempt to fulfill all imaging commands by applying several images in an arbitrary order thereby resulting in race conditions and unintended variations in the configuration of clients . As a third example some implementations of network imaging systems cannot easily that particular clients are to apply particular images e.g. it may be difficult to configure the network imaging system to deploy a set of images to a heterogeneous set of computers .

In view of these complications techniques may be devised that promote the imaging of clients over a network in a manner that promotes the scalability of a network imaging system for deployment in a large network featuring a large number of clients such as by a cooperative deployment of servers that may efficiently allocate the servicing of imaging requests received from many clients . These techniques may also be devised to promote the selection of particular images for particular clients such that a heterogeneous body of clients may be managed in this manner. Additionally such techniques may be devised to utilize some existing technologies e.g. the current configuration of clients with PXE client implementations embedded in the boot cycle such as system BIOS in order to promote easy deployment of the improved techniques.

These techniques involve the configuration of one or more servers to facilitate the directing of clients to accept and apply images e.g. a particular configuration of PXE servers in the following manner. As a first example respective clients of the network may be assigned to a particular server that is responsible for handling imaging queries e.g. PXE boot queries received from the client . A server receiving an imaging query from a client that is not assigned to the server may be configured not to respond to the imaging query . In this manner many clients may issue imaging queries and may even do so in a broadcast or multicast manner e.g. the client may be able to broadcast the imaging query without knowledge of the potentially complicated and dynamic set of servers that may respond to the imaging query but such imaging queries are only evaluated and replied to by the server to which the client is assigned thereby reducing the redundant evaluation of the imaging query the redundant delivery of imaging commands from multiple servers and the potential inconsistency of multiple imaging commands .

As a second example the servers may have access to a network map such as a manageability data store MDS which stores information about the computers on the network and the configuration thereof. For example the network map may contain an entry for each client authorized to access the network possibly including the Media Access Control MAC address of a network adapter for each client and or a network address reserved for the client and also including a current image version of the image of the client as well as a target image version of the image that is currently applied to the client e.g. one or more indicators of which images have been applied to the client . Upon receiving an imaging query from the client a server may consult the network map to identify whether the client is directed to apply an image e.g. whether the current image version of the client matches the target image version of the client and may accordingly issue to the client an imaging command containing an image reference to an image to be applied by the client e.g. a network path of the image . The client may then retrieve the image using the image reference in the imaging command e.g. from an image server and may apply the image to achieve a local deployment of the target image version. In this manner these techniques presented herein may permit the servers to direct the imaging of the clients by refining the implementation of existing techniques such as PXE in order to promote the efficient use of the network and server resources and the selectivity of the imaging commands given to respective clients while also utilizing existing technologies e.g. the clients may utilize existing PXE client implementations embedded in the BIOS boot routines thereof .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of configuring a server to image clients using a network such as the exemplary method of . In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system for configuring a server to image clients using a network such as the exemplary system of . Some embodiments of this computer readable medium may comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk drive an optical disc or a flash memory device that is configured to store processor executable instructions configured in this manner. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein such techniques may be utilized. As a first example the techniques may be applied to manage computers on many types of wired and or wireless networks such as a wide area network e.g. the internet a regional area network e.g. a cellular network a local area network and a personal area network. The network may also be created and maintained in many contexts such as a centrally managed corporate network an academic or municipal network or a network of devices managed by a particular service e.g. a cellular network managed by a cellular carrier . As a second example of this first aspect these techniques may be used to manage the imaging of many types of computers such as personal computers workstations servers remotely deployed devices e.g. sensors distributed in a sensor network and portable devices e.g. mobile phones and personal data assistants PDAs of a cellular network . The devices may also be stateful e.g. comprising a persistent memory component storing a set of software instructions over which the instructions of the image are applied and or stateless e.g. lacking a persistent memory component but having a volatile memory component into which an image is loaded such as in a thin client configuration . As a third example of this first aspect the images may comprise many types of software such as an operating system a driver for a hardware or software component or an application that may be executed on the client . The images may also be applied integrally e.g. completely overwriting all of the instructions currently stored on the computer and or differentially e.g. adding instructions to the software of the computer or replacing selective instructions stored by the computer .

One scenario where the techniques provided herein may be particularly advantageous involves a server farm wherein a potentially large set of computers interoperate to distribute the computing processes involved in a service such as the service of web pages comprising a large and complex e commerce website. In such contexts it may be desirable to assign clients to various dedicated roles comprising different architectural layers of the service such as a web page preparing role a business logic role an order processing role and a data managing role. Additional capacity may be added to any of these architectural layers by adding clients configured to operate in the corresponding role thereby increasing the number of clients over which the processing tasks of the role may be distributed. Accordingly it may be desirable to select computers for each role that have similar sets of hardware components and to configure all of the clients in a particular role with the same image thereby promoting consistent operation of all clients within the role. Changes to the clients within a role may therefore be achieved by generating a new image and directing all of the clients within the role to obtain the image over the network and to apply the image over the existing configuration. In accordance with this scenario the techniques provided herein may be particularly suitable to promote the imaging of the clients over the network in a manner that both promotes the scalability of the imaging service e.g. by distributing the processing tasks over several servers and by reducing inefficient network communication and by promoting the centralized declaration of images to be applied to particular clients e.g. the clients within a particular role . Some of the variations of the aspects discussed herein may be particularly suitable for this scenario. However those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many scenarios wherein the general techniques and variations discussed herein may be suitable and advantageous.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the determination by a server of whether or not a particular client is assigned to the server . As a first example a server may determine such assignments by examining the network map . As a second example the server may determine such assignments by querying another server that is configured to make such determinations and provide responses in order to direct the actions of the servers in interacting with clients . As a third example the server may comprise an application such as a dynamic link library DLL configured to determine whether a particular client is managed by the server . For example a DLL comprising a programmatic determination of assignments for any client to any server may be centrally generated and distributed to the servers of the network . This example may be advantageous e.g. for promoting rapid determinations of assignments particularly in scenarios where the number of imaging queries is comparatively high e.g. where a large number of clients operate and are frequently rebooted thereby causing the servers to handle a high volume of imaging queries .

As a fourth example of this second aspect the server may store a set of records such as a set of assignments comprising an assignment set e.g. a set of records in a table of a database a set of entities in an extensible markup language XML document or a set of objects in an object set where respective assignments specify a client assigned to the server and the server may perform this determination for a particular client by determining whether the assignment set comprises at least one assignment specifying the client . The server may specify assignments in the assignment set in many ways. In one such set of embodiments various clients may be associated with a particular role e.g. a web page preparing role a business logic role an order processing role or a data managing role and a server may be assigned to manage the clients associated with a particular role. Accordingly the server may store in the assignment set one or more assignments for each client associated with the roles assigned to the server.

In a first variation of this fourth example of this second aspect the network map may specify the roles associated with various clients accordingly the server may be configured to determine the assignment of a particular client by identifying the roles assigned to the server using the network map to identify the role associated with the client and determining whether the role associated with the client is one of the roles assigned to the server . This variation may be advantageous e.g. for promoting a centralized administration of the roles of the clients simply by updating the network map and these administrative selections may be achieved for a particular client simply by directing the client to perform an imaging query e.g. by simply rebooting a client having imaging querying capabilities included in the boot cycle such as a PXE based BIOS . When the client performs the imaging query the server assigned to the client based on its current role according to the network map may direct the client to apply the image s that fully configure the client to operate in the specified role.

In a second variation of this fourth example of this second aspect the network map may more directly specify the assignments of clients to servers . In such embodiments each server may maintain a fresh set of assignments by synchronizing the assignments of the network map with the assignments of the assignment set stored by the server . For example the server may monitor the network map for updates to the assignments e.g. by polling the network map for updates and or may accept a notification from the network map e.g. from a server storing the network map that one or more updates to the network map have been made.

Some embodiments configured according to this second variation involve the dual configuration of respective servers as dynamic host configuration protocol servers DHCP servers . In such embodiments the assignment set may comprise a dynamic host configuration protocol table which specifies as assignments one or more reservations of a client with a reserved network address such that the client may be consistently assigned the same network address upon connecting to the network . Additionally the imaging query of the client may comprise a dynamic host configuration protocol query a DHCP query comprising a request for allocation of a network address upon connecting to the network e.g. as part of the boot cycle of the client . The network map may specify the network addresses reserved for various clients and the server may synchronize the network addresses stored in the DHCP table with the network addresses specified in the network map . Additionally the DHCP table may be used to indicate the assignment of clients to servers such that for each client assigned to the server the server contains a reservation in the DHCP table. The server may therefore store reservations only for the clients managed by the server and may determine whether the server manages the client by determining whether the DHCP table comprises at least one reservation associating the client with a network address. Any such reservation may cause the server to reply to imaging queries possibly concurrently with fulfilling a DHCP request received from the client e.g. during a boot cycle . Such embodiments may be advantageous e.g. for coupling the DHCP service of the client with the imaging service of the client to be handled by the same server .

A DHCP server configured to handle imaging queries may be configured to synchronize the DHCP reservations with the network map in the following manner. First if respective clients are associated with a role the network map may be designed to group the clients associated with a particular role together in the reservation of network addresses e.g. as a set of contiguous network addresses spanning a numeric range. Accordingly the DHCP server may be configured to identify a scope associated with the range of contiguous reservations for the clients associated with the role assigned to the server . For example the DHCP server may for all clients assigned to the server e.g. for all clients associated with a role assigned to the server the server may examine the network addresses of the clients in one role to identify one or more range of contiguous addresses assigned by the network map and for each such range may create a scope in the DHCP table. The scope may be created e.g. by storing the scope in the DHCP table and also by storing in the DHCP table an assignment exclusion range covering the contiguous addresses. In this manner the server may recognize the scope but may also exclude the entire set of addresses within the scope from dynamic allocation of network addresses e.g. to avoid allocating such a network address to a different client as part of the ordinary DHCP address allocation process . The server may then create a reservation in the DHCP table for each client in the range. Because the reservations override the assignment exclusion range the clients may be assigned addresses within the scope according to the reservations. In this manner the server may generate a DHCP scope for the range of clients associated with the role assigned to the server . Additionally while synchronizing the DHCP table with the network map the server may also delete any scope from the DHCP table upon failing to detect any clients associated with the role of the scope and may also update the reservations within the scope to reflect the network addresses assigned to the clients in the network map . These actions together cause the server to synchronize the assignments of the network map with the reservations and scopes of the DHCP table. Such embodiments may also be advantageous e.g. for providing an automated synchronization of the reservations of the DHCP server with the network map which may alleviate the involvement of administrators in manually configuring the reservations of the DHCP server.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the configuration of a server to determine whether a client is directed to apply an image . For example the server may compare a current client image version of the client with a target client image version of the client e.g. the image that the client is intended to use as compared with the image that the client is currently using . Such versions may be identified e.g. by querying the client or by examining a record of the images that the client has previously been directed to apply. In one such variation the network map may store the current client image version e.g. which may be updated by a server or a client upon applying an image to the client and or the target client image version e.g. which may be selectively set by an administrator to indicate that a particular client is directed to apply a particular image . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of determining whether an image is to be applied to a client while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of configuring the server to direct the client to apply an image by sending an image reference of the image to the client . As a first example the server may be configured as a preboot execution environment boot server a PXE boot server and the imaging query of the client may comprise a preboot execution environment boot query to which the server may respond by sending a preboot execution environment boot command to the client specifying the image reference of the image . Alternatively if the server determines that the client is not currently directed to apply an image the server may send a preboot execution environment abort command directing the client to abort the PXE portion of the boot cycle and to boot using the currently applied image .

As a second example of this fourth aspect the server may comprise an imaging log comprising records indicating the imaging of clients with images . Accordingly upon directing a client to apply an image e.g. upon sending an image reference to a client or upon receiving a message from the client indicating the successful application of an image the server may log the imaging of the client with the image in the imaging log. Other actions may also be recorded in the imaging log e.g. a failure error or exception in the applying of an image and the imaging log may be used in various ways e.g. to identify the current client image version of a client based on the logged history of applied images . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of configuring the server to direct a client to apply an image while implementing the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

