---

title: Vertical plasmonic Mach-Zehnder interferometer
abstract: An optical device includes first and second optical branches. The first optical branch is formed at an interface between a first substrate and a second substrate, and the second optical branch is formed at an interface between the second substrate and an ambient medium. The second substrate defines first and second spaced apart slits that are each coupled to the first and second optical branches. The first slit is configured to receive at least partially coherent light from a light source and in response excite at least one surface plasmon polariton mode in each of the first and second optical branches. The second slit is configured to combine the surface plasmon polariton modes received from the first and second optical branches and emit scattered light into at least one of the first substrate and the ambient medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649014&OS=08649014&RS=08649014
owner: 
number: 08649014
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100930
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 248 114 which was filed on Oct. 2 2009 and the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support from the National Science Foundation Bioengineering Environmental Systems under award 0608742 the National Science Foundation Electrical Communications and Cyber Systems under award 0901324 and from the Department of Defense Army Research Laboratories Army Optics V and VI. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The disclosed system and method relate to interferometry. More specifically the disclosed system and method relate to interferometry utilizing a vertical plasmonic Mach Zehnder interferometer.

Interferometry is one of the most sensitive optical interrogation methods and has been used in a wide array of technologies including astronomy fiber optics engineering metrology quantum mechanics plasma physics remote sensing and biomolecular interactions such as screening molecular interactions in surface binding modes. Several types of interferometry have been developed such as fluorescence interferometry for high resolution microscopy or nanoscopy label free sensing based on a Mach Zehnder Interferometer a Young Interferometer a dual polarization interferometer back scattering interferometry and spectral reflectance interferometry to name a few.

Surface Plasmons SPs are coherent oscillations of conduction electrons on a metal surface excited by electromagnetic radiation at a metal dielectric interface. The sensitivity of the Surface Plasmon Resonance SPR to the refractive index change at a flat metal interface has led to the development of SPR sensing systems based on interferometry and that use prisms to couple light into a single surface plasmon mode on a flat continuous metal film e.g. gold . However the relatively large size of these experimental systems is a disadvantage for applications requiring integrated low cost compact image based devices for portable rapid bio analytical measurements.

Nanoplasmonic biosensors employing nanoscale metal particles provide an attractive miniaturized platform for sensitive label free monitoring of cellular processes. When receptor molecules are immobilized on the nanostructured metal surface the binding of target biomolecules changes the local refractive index which affects the optical properties of the SP modes and permits optical detection. Recent advances in nanofabrication nanomaterial synthesis and nanocharacterization permit significant advances over conventional SPR evanescent wave based biosensors whose large size limits their effectiveness for probing nanovolumes and single cells and for integration into microfluidic platforms. However the sensitivities for these nanoplasmonic structures are much lower two to three orders of magnitude than other sensitive optical sensing technologies.

An optical device is disclosed that includes first and second optical branches. The first optical branch is formed at an interface between a first substrate and a second substrate and the second optical branch is formed at an interface between the second substrate and an ambient medium. The second substrate defines first and second spaced apart slits that are each coupled to the first and second optical branches. The first slit is configured to receive at least partially coherent light from a light source and in response excite at least one surface plasmon polariton mode in each of the first and second optical branches. The second slit is configured to combine the surface plasmon polariton modes received from the first and second optical branches and emit scattered light into at least one of the first substrate and the ambient medium.

Also disclosed is an optical device that includes a first substrate having opposed first and second surfaces. The first substrate is configured to transmit light received at the first surface to the second surface. A second substrate has opposed third and fourth surfaces with the third surface of the second substrate disposed on the second surface of the first substrate to define a first interface. The fourth surface of the second substrate defines a second interface with an ambient medium and the second substrate defines spaced apart first and second slits that extend from the third surface to the fourth surface. The first slit is configured to excite at least one first surface plasmon polariton mode along a first optical transmission path defined by the first interface and at least one second surface plasmon polariton mode along a second optical transmission path defined by the second interface in response to receiving the light through the first substrate. The second slit is configured to combine the at least one first and second surface plasmon polariton modes received from the first slit and emit scattered light into one of the first substrate and the ambient medium.

A method is also disclosed in which at least partially coherent light is received at a first surface of a first substrate and the at least partially coherent light is transmitted from the first surface of the first substrate to a second surface of the first substrate. At least one first surface plasmon polariton mode is excited along a first optical transmission path defined by an interface of the first substrate and a second substrate in response to receiving the partially coherent light at a first slit defined by the second substrate and at least one second surface plasmon polariton mode is excited along a second optical transmission path defined by an interface of the second substrate and a surrounding medium in response to receiving the partially coherent light at the first slit. The at least one first and second surface plasmon polariton modes are combined at a second slit defined by the second substrate and light is scattered into at least one of the first substrate and the ambient medium.

This description is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description. The drawing figures are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be shown exaggerated in scale or in somewhat schematic form in the interest of clarity and conciseness. In the description relative terms such as horizontal vertical up down top and bottom as well as derivatives thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing figure under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and normally are not intended to require a particular orientation. Terms including inwardly versus outwardly longitudinal versus lateral and the like are to be interpreted relative to one another or relative to an axis of elongation or an axis or center of rotation as appropriate. Terms concerning attachments coupling and the like such as connected and interconnected refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise. When only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The term operatively connected is such an attachment coupling or connection that allows the pertinent structures to operate as intended by virtue of that relationship. In the claims means plus function clauses if used are intended to cover the structures described suggested or rendered obvious by the written description or drawings for performing the recited function including not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

A vertical plasmonic Mach Zehnder interferometer VPMZI is disclosed that provides high sensitivity optical sensing. The VPMZIs disclosed herein enable optical microscopes to perform Surface Plasmon Resonance SPR sensing thereby eliminating the need for the conventional bulky and expensive angular tunable systems. The flexibility provided by the VPMZIs advantageously enables future microscopes to integrate SPR sensing functionality which should have significant commercial potential. Additionally the compact package of the VPMZIs disclosed herein may be integrated into sensitive biosensing platforms and subwavelength optics on a chip.

The VPMZI illustrated in includes a first substrate on which a second substrate is disposed. A first interface is defined between substrate and substrate and a second interface is defined by substrate and ambient medium . Second substrate defines first and second slits which are horizontally spaced apart from one another. A light source may be configured to direct light towards first slit and a detection device may be configured to receive light from second slit .

Substrate is fabricated from glass and may have a variety of thicknesses and widths. Examples of substrate include but are not limited to glass Quartz and other transparent semiconductor substrates.

Substrate is a metal containing layer having a thickness approximately on the order of tens or hundreds of nanometers depending on the material from which substrate is fabricated. Such materials include but are not limited to gold silver copper and aluminum to name only a few possible materials. Substrate may be deposited on substrate in a variety of methods including but not limited to chemical vapor deposition CVD atomic layer deposition ALD electroless plating and sputtering and evaporation.

Slits and may be formed in substrate by utilizing a wide variety of methods such as focused ion beam FIB milling electron beam e beam lithography and nano imprint lithography. The thicknesses of slits and are on the order of one to several hundreds of nanometers and may vary depending on the material used for substrate in order to couple visible and near visible infrared light. For example if substrate is a 200 nm thick silver film deposited on a glass substrate and includes two parallel slits and that are separated from each other by approximately 97 m then slits and may be approximately 100 nm wide and 40 m long for use with wavelengths between 800 and 900 nm. Slits and may also be disposed from one another at various distances on the order of several microns to tens of microns and beyond.

Interface between substrate and substrate defines a first optical branch or optical transmission path capable of supporting at least one surface plasmonic polariton SPP mode. Similarly interface between substrate and ambient medium defines a second optical branch capable of supporting at least one SPP mode having a different phase than the SPP mode of interface . Medium may be a dielectric material in the form of a solid liquid or gas. In some embodiments in which VMZI is integrated into a biologic sensing device medium is a liquid such as water that includes a sample of biologic material to be tested and in some embodiments medium is air. However one skilled in the art will understand that VPMZI may be disposed within a variety of different mediums for testing.

Light source may be any light source that provides light that is at least partially coherent. For example light source may be a halogen lamp light emitting diode LED or a laser to name a few possible partially coherent light sources. Light source may be disposed adjacent to substrate such that light emitted by light source contacts a surface of substrate which is on the opposite side of substrate as interface . Light may be emitted from light source such that it is parallel to a plane defined by surface of substrate and is approximately aligned with an axis defined by slit defined by substrate . In some embodiments light source emits light at an angle other than a right angle with respect to a plane defined by surface of substrate . Additionally a polarizer not shown may be coupled to the light source to polarize the at least partially coherent light emitted by light source . For example the polarizer may polarize light such that light is perpendicular to slits and .

Detection device may be any device configured to detect optical signals emitted from slit either through ambient medium shown in as solid rectangle or through substrate shown in as dotted rectangle . Examples of detection devices include but are not limited to spectrometers monochromators charged coupled device CCD or complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensors. In some embodiments detection device may be a spectrum analyzer configured to receive and perform spectral analysis on the optical signals emitted from slit .

In operation light source emits at least partially coherent light towards surface of substrate . As described above light may be transmitted by light source such that light is emitted at an angle that is orthogonal to a plane defined by surface or light may be transmitted by light source at an angle other than ninety degrees with respect to a plane defined by surface . Regardless of the angle at which light is emitted with respect to the plane defined by surface light is directed towards one of the slits defined by substrate .

The light received at surface of substrate is transmitted through substrate to interfaces and of substrate at or near a location of one of the slits in this example at slit . One or more SPP modes and are excited in each of the optical transmission paths defined by interfaces and in response to receiving light from light source . SPP modes and propagate towards slit where they constructively and destructively interfere with one another.

The interference of SPP modes and at slit results in scattered light being emitted from slit toward ambient medium and back into substrate . Detection device may be positioned adjacent to substrate or substrate such that it receives scattered light . The interference pattern of the far field scattering of SPP modes and includes the following term 

Notably the two optical branches defined by interfaces and of VPMZI may be separated by a gap that is only several hundred nanometers wide i.e. the thickness of substrate may be on the order of hundreds of nanometers which is appreciably smaller than for silicon based planar MZIs.

The phase modulation properties of VPMZI are sensitive to changes in the refractive index in the sensing transmission path relative to the refractive index in the reference transmission path . When the refractive index of the sensing transmission path which is determined by the refractive index of ambient medium n is changed to n n the phase change is given by the following equation 

Equation 2 can be used to analyze the relation between the phase change and the refractive index change. In this calculation an incident wavelength of 1033 nm is employed for which the permittivity of silver 48.81 i3.16 is used as substrate . Assuming that the ambient medium is water n 1.33 and the distance between slits and a refractive index change of 0.1 may introduce a phase change of about 7.2 2 as shown in which is in a good agreement with the two dimensional 2D finite difference time domain FDTD modeling result shown in . Based on the FDTD modeling result more than seven periods of interference pattern can be observed in the far field scattering signal which can be utilized in optical sensing applications. The length of the sensing transmission path is kept relatively short to minimize the intrinsic loss of metals. For example transmission paths and may be on the order of tens of microns to hundreds of microns although one skilled in the art will understand that transmission paths and may have other lengths. Consequently the phase change sensitivity of this metallic VPMZI approximately 72 2 refractive index unit RIU is much lower than Si based MZIs with long sensing arms. For example the phase change sensitivity of a Si based MZI with a 5 mm sensing arm is reported to be about 1400 2 RIU.

The double slit or slit groove metal VPMZI device can also support spectral interference when the input is a broad band light source. Spectral interference is supported by the proposed VPMZI which provides an ultrahigh sensitivity that is significantly better than has been reported for other nanoplasmonic architectures. For example when the refractive index or the ambient medium is changed the peaks and valleys in the interference pattern will shift. The sensitivity may be derived by setting the right side of Equation 2 to a constant value which yields the following equation 

From Equation 3 it is seen that when nn then the sensitivity value is positive indicating that the interference pattern will shift to longer wavelengths. Equation 3 also provides that the sensitivity increases if the two terms in the denominator are close in value. illustrates the sensitivities that could potentially be achieved by varying the refractive index of the material of substrate . In this calculation substrate is gold and ambient medium is water n 1.33 .

As an example when n 1.51 the relation between the sensitivity and the operating wavelength is shown by the lowest curve in . The sensitivity cannot be enhanced by orders or magnitude by employing longer wavelengths. However when the refractive index of substrate n is decreased and approaches that of ambient medium n the sensitivity can increase significantly as illustrated by the series of curves in .

Matching the ERI at of substrate and ambient medium increases the sensitivity of VPMZI . In one embodiment the ERI matching condition is where the dispersion curve at the interface is approximately equal to the dispersion curve at interface which indicates that the ERI match condition could be met over a broad range of wavelengths. This can in principle be accomplished by providing a substrate having a refractive index that is close to the refractive index of ambient medium . For example fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer FEr may be implemented as substrate because it is chemically inert thermoplastic transparent in the visible region and has a refractive index of 1.341 at the of 590 nm.

A 2D FDTD method was used to simulate the sensitivity for a gold substrate disposed on substrates having various refractive index values for a VPMZI in accordance with in which slits and were separated by approximately 70 m and only slit was illuminated by the incident light. The sensitivity from the shift in the peak or valley wavelength was calculated for a variety of different refractive indices. For example if n 1.46 then when nchanges from 1.33 to 1.331 the peak of the interference pattern at 970 nm will shift to 964 nm which indicates that the sensitivity is 0.6 104 nm RIU see the upper panel in . If nis set to 1.36 then the valley of the interference pattern at 940 nm shifts to 908 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 3.2 104 nm RIU. Similarly the peak at 1168 nm shifts to 1132 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 3.6 104 nm RIU as shown in the upper panel of . Further decreasing nto 1.35 provides a shift in the valley position from 1076 nm to 1034 nm which indicates a sensitivity of 4.2 104 nm RIU. At the same time the peak at 1582 nm shifts to 1486 nm which indicates a sensitivity of about 9.2 104 nm RIU as shown in the upper panel of . In accordance with the expression on the right side of Equation 2 the theoretical spectral interference pattern of this structure was calculated and plotted in the lower panels in which is in accordance with the FDTD modeling result. Remarkably the sensitivities shown in and are between one and two orders of magnitude larger than the best sensitivity previously reported for nanohole arrays approximately 1500 nm RIU .

If a low refractive index substrate is unavailable then the ERI matching condition can also be met by various surface dispersion engineering approaches. For example one can introduce a thin film of dielectric material with a higher refractive index on substrate at interface between substrate and ambient medium to tune the ERI of this interface. Various nanopatterned structures such as periodic metal dielectric air grooves and surface grating structures can be employed to finely tune the shape of the dispersion curve and approach to the ERI match condition.

An experiment was performed to determine if spectral interference of light emitted from slot is observable. The optical transmission measurements were performed on an IX81 inverted microscope available from Olympus America Inc. of Center Valley Pa. using a white light beam from a 100 W halogen lamp that was focused at nominal incidence onto surface of substrate which was a glass substrate through the microscope condenser with a linear polarizer. The polarization of the incident light was transverse magnetic TM with respect to the longitudinal axis of slit . The transmission light was collected by an X40 microscope objective with a numerical aperture of 0.6 coupled into a multimode fiber bundle connected with a fiber based compact spectrometer which was a USB4000 fiber optic spectrometer available from Ocean Optics Inc. of Dunedin Fla.

A charge coupled device CCD camera was employed to align the position of the double slits. Consequently the collection condition of the transmitted light from all the samples is almost identical. A diaphragm in the condenser was employed to minimize the intensity of the light beam illuminating the other slit . Several VPMZIs in accordance with were fabricated using by creating slits and at various distances in 300 nm thick layers of gold and silver substrate that were evaporated onto a flat fused silica microscope slide substrate . Slits and which had a thickness of approximately 220 nm were formed by FIB milling substrate with a DualBeam available from FEI Company of Hillsboro. Four samples on a silver film with slit slit separation distances of 10.50 13.12 15.73 and 20.98 m were observed and studied. A scanning electron microscope image of a VPMZI having a slit slit separation distance of 15.73 m with slits and having widths of approximately 220 nm is shown in .

The measurement results are shown by bold solid lines and in in which spectral interference patterns can be observed under the TM illumination. The low frequency background and high frequency noise have been numerically filtered by Fast Fourier Transform FFT the low frequency cutoff was set at 2.896 mand the high frequency cutoff was set at 217.1 96 m . Theoretical interference patterns were calculated in accordance with Equation 1 and are identified in as reference numerals and . Specifically reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 20.98 m reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 15.73 m reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 13.12 m and reference numerals and respectively correspond to the observed and simulated measurements for a slit slit separation distance of 10.50 m.

As shown in the theoretical predictions are in accordance with the measurement thereby confirming the occurrence of SPP mediated spectral interference from interfaces and . Consequently demonstrates that air Ag glass interfaces are able to support several different interference patterns including but not limited to the SPP modes on interface or interface which can both interfere with free space light and introduce interference patterns with higher modulation frequencies. High frequency interference patterns were also observed in the wavelength region between 700 nm and 800 nm. The amplitude of the interference signal is optimized by balancing the intensity of the two SPP modes which are related to the coupling efficiencies for the two SPP modes at interfaces and in VPMZI .

The VPMZI disclosed herein advantageously provides a high sensitivity for optical sensing that has the potential for a one to two order of magnitude improvement over conventional nanoaperture arrays. Additionally the VPMZI provides a compact sensing package that may be integrated into sensitive biosensing platforms and subwavelength optics on a chip. For example a VPMZI may be integrated into a microfluidic channel to observe SPP interference in a liquid environment. The VPMZI disclosed herein advantageously enable sensitive SPR sensing applications to be performed with simple optical microscope systems compared to the complex conventional instrumentation that utilizes near field scanning microscopes leakage radiation microscopes and prism based SPR setups.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

