---

title: Restraint system buckle components having tactile surfaces, and associated methods of use and manufacture
abstract: Buckle assemblies for use with child seats and other personal restraint systems in vehicles are disclosed herein. A buckle assembly configured in accordance with one embodiment of the disclosure includes a housing assembly that receives at least a portion of a web connector. The housing assembly includes a coating having a generally soft or tactile surface finish. For example, the coating can be at least partially elastically compressible.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08683666&OS=08683666&RS=08683666
owner: AmSafe Commercial Products, Inc.
number: 08683666
owner_city: Elkhart
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101104
---
The present application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 258 110 filed Nov. 4 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure relates generally to personal restraint systems for use in vehicles and more particularly to buckle assemblies and associated components having tactile surfaces for use with child seats and other restraint systems.

There are many types of personal restraint systems for use in automobiles aircraft all terrain vehicles and other vehicles. Such systems include for example seat belts for use by adults and children of sufficient size and child seats with associated restraints for use by toddlers and small children.

One method of securing the seat belts or webs around an occupant includes releasably attaching an end portion of each of the webs to a buckle assembly. The buckle assembly retains the webs around the occupant during use and also enables the occupant to release or separate the webs after use. Conventional buckle assemblies can be positioned to the side of an occupant or in front of an occupant. For example a three point harness system as typically found in conventional automobiles can include a shoulder web and a lap web that are releasably secured to a buckle assembly positioned proximate to the occupant s hip. A five point harness system can include a crotch web first and second shoulder webs and first and second lap webs that are releasably secured to a buckle assembly positioned proximate to the occupant s mid section.

The following disclosure describes surface finishes for buckle assemblies and associated components for use with child seats and other personal restraint systems in vehicles. As described in greater detail below a surface finish for a component of a buckle assembly configured in accordance with one aspect of the disclosure can include a tactile or soft texture. Certain details are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. However other details describing well known structures and systems often associated with buckle assemblies web connectors and or other aspects of personal restraint systems are not set forth below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of various embodiments of the disclosure.

Many of the details dimensions angles and other features shown in the Figures are merely illustrative of particular embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments can have other details dimensions angles and features without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that further embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without several of the details described below.

In the Figures identical reference numbers identify identical or at least generally similar elements. To facilitate the discussion of any particular element the most significant digit or digits of any reference number refers to the Figure in which that element is first introduced. For example element is first introduced and discussed with reference to .

In the illustrated embodiment the restraint system includes a first shoulder web and a second shoulder web extending from the back portion of the child seat . The shoulder webs can include various types of woven fabric materials and or other suitable belt or strap materials known in the art that provide sufficient strength flexibility durability and or other characteristics. In this embodiment each of the shoulder webs slidably passes through an aperture in a corresponding web connector identified individually as a first web connector and a second web connector . Passing the shoulder webs through the web connectors divides each of the shoulder webs into a corresponding shoulder web portion identified individually as a first shoulder web portion and a second shoulder web portion and a corresponding lap web portion identified individually as a first lap web portion and a second lap web portion . The lap web portions extend away from each other toward opposite sides of the child seat . The end portions of the shoulder webs can be secured or otherwise affixed to the child seat and or other adjacent structures using various methods known in the art.

As described in greater detail below at least a portion of the web connectors and or at least a portion of the buckle assembly have a soft tactile surface finish or texture. In the illustrated embodiment the buckle assembly is attached to a distal end of a crotch web that extends from the base portion of the child seat . The proximal end of the crotch web can be secured to the child seat and or other adjacent structures using various methods known in the art. Although illustrates one possible use of the buckle assembly e.g. use with a five point harness those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the buckle assembly and the other components of the restraint system can be used in a number of other restraint system applications without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure.

According to an aspect of the illustrated embodiment the buckle assembly includes a housing comprising a first or top cover opposite a second or bottom cover . The housing also has a tongue opening to receive the tongues when a user inserts the tongues into the buckle assembly . The buckle assembly also includes a release actuator or button . The button is configured to release or disengage the tongues from locking features of the buckle assembly when a user actuates the button .

In the certain embodiments the web connector covers the housing covers and the button can have a surface finish formed from a two component urethane paint e.g. resin and thinner and a hardener. One example of such a surface finish is Alsa Soft Feel Paint available from the Also Corporation 2640 E. 37th Street Vernon Calif. 90058 U.S.A. In other embodiments these surface finishes can be formed from other paints or coverings that provide suitable soft or tactile textures. In the illustrated embodiment the covers or surface finishes can be applied by painting the corresponding components e.g. spray painting or brushing by immersing the corresponding components in the paint or other type of coating or by other suitable techniques. The surface finishes can be applied after forming these components using suitable manufacturing techniques known in the art e.g. cold forming or stamping metallic components molding plastic components etc. . In yet other embodiments these surface finishes can be incorporated into the connector covers the housing covers and or the button when these components are formed.

In one embodiment the coatings or surface finishes on the covers and or the button can have a durometer hardness equal to or less than approximately Shore A 70. In other embodiments these coatings or surface finishes can have a durometer hardness in the range of approximately Shore A 20 60. In still further embodiments these coatings or surface finishes can have a durometer hardness in the range of approximately Shore A 30 50 or approximately Shore A 40. Moreover in certain embodiments these coatings or surface finishes can have a first thickness e.g. about 1 3 mils or more that can be elastically compressed or otherwise deformed to a second thickness that is approximately 85 95 of the first thickness. In other embodiments the second thickness can be approximately 90 of the first thickness.

These surface finishes are configured to facilitate grasping and or manipulation of their corresponding components. For example these surface finishes can be formed to have a smooth rough tactile compliant and or generally soft feel. These surface finishes can also improve a user s comfort. For example the surface finishes can be configured to have specific textures such as textures generally similar to suede soft leather velvet silk rubber etc. that are comfortable against a user s skin. These surface finishes can also improve the aesthetic appeal of the buckle assembly . For example these surface finishes can be applied in various colors or finishes e.g. matte shiny etc. . Moreover these surface finishes provide durable protection to the buckle assembly.

In certain embodiments the surface finish of each of the web connector covers the housing covers and the button can each have the same texture or feel. In other embodiments however these surface finishes can have different textures or hardness. For example the button can have a softer texture or hardness than the housing covers and vice versa. Moreover in certain embodiments a surface finish can include different regions or portions having different textures.

Although these surface finishes have been described above with reference to in other embodiments these surface finishes can be applied to other buckle or latch assemblies and associated components for use with personal restraint systems including for example the buckle assemblies described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 357 356 entitled BUCKLE ASSEMBLIES AND ASSOCIATED CONNECTORS FOR USE WITH CHILD SEATS AND OTHER RESTRAINT SYSTEMS filed Jan. 21 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In the illustrated embodiment at least one of the housing and the actuator has a tactile or soft surface finish. These surface finishes can have the same features and properties as the surface finishes described above with reference to .

The embodiments of the buckle assemblies and surface finishes described above provide several advantages over conventional buckle assemblies. One advantage for example is that the surface finishes provide a pleasant texture while manipulating or otherwise handling the corresponding buckle assemblies. These surface finishes also provide a relatively inexpensive covering that protects the buckle assembly for wear or damage.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the disclosure. Further while various advantages associated with certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described above in the context of those embodiments other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the disclosure is not limited except as by the appended claims.

