---

title: System and method for navigating a collection of editorial content
abstract: Computer-implemented systems, methods, and computer-readable media for facilitating user navigation of a collection of editorial content associated with products include displaying a first user interface including a first editorial content related to a first product previously viewed by a user, a second editorial content relating to a product navigated to by the user from the first editorial content, and a first plurality of editorial content relating to a first plurality of products; receiving a selection from the user; and navigation to editorial content in accordance with the user's selection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346623&OS=08346623&RS=08346623
owner: CBS Interactive Inc.
number: 08346623
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100806
---
The present invention relates to content navigation and more particularly systems and methods for navigating a collection of editorial content.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The Internet has become a primary source of communication amongst millions of individuals in recent years. Web pages are accessed by individuals for nearly every reason under the sun ranging from education and information exchange to on demand entertainment and online dating. The Internet has become particularly prevalent in the advertising marketing and retail sectors as a go to source for widespread and relatively successful dissemination of brand information. As a result more and more businesses have turned to the internet to draw potential consumers educate the public about their brands services and goods and to act as an always open marketplace for their products. Although quite beneficial for deal seeking consumers the rapid influx of businesses to the internet has saturated many market segments resulting in fierce competition between similarly situated companies.

In order to differentiate themselves from competitors and to provide a measure of confidence about the product being considered for purchase companies often rely on editorial content describing evaluating and providing insight into the their products which can be any tangible or intangible goods or services. Editorial content in this context is usually authored and published by a user of the product. In the case of product reviews the author is usually a a personal consumer of the product or b an organizational consumer of the product.

A personal consumer of a product is someone who purchases the product in the regular marketplace for his or her own consumption. Personal consumers come from a wide variety of educational and experiential backgrounds but almost all acquire use and evaluate the product under the normal conditions for which the product was designed. Thus reviews authored by personal consumers may only consider basic factors such as merchantability fitness for a particular or intended purpose and sensory acquired features e.g. design color size weight smell texture taste sound etc. . Personal consumers continue to use the product as long as it is functional optimal and or desirable potentially over the lifetime over the product. Thus a review from a personal consumer may take into consideration the product s long term wear and tear performance and reliability.

An organizational consumer of the product such as an agency business firm or representative thereof purchases a product for business related purpose or in furtherance of a business related objective. An example of a business related purpose may include for example paper supplies to be used to maintain the business s offices. For the purpose of this application an organizational consumer may also be a business or representative of a business that acquires another business s product for the sole purpose of evaluating it.

This particular type of consumer commonly referred to as a product tester may purchase the product in the marketplace or at wholesale for the primary purpose of reviewing it. More typically however a product tester will acquire the product free of charge from the product s manufacturer. In return the product tester uses the product to formulate reviews that publicize the user s experience with the product and thus the product itself. Some product testers are paid by the manufacturer either for or based on their review. In this situation the opinion and review of the product tester may be skewed favorably toward the product being tested and or away from competitor products being tested for which they are not being compensated.

Product testers are often relied on to provide an expert opinion of the product being evaluated based on their knowledge and experience with that type of product. Thus product testers may evaluate the product with higher expectations considering a breadth of general factors such as those considered by personal consumers specific factors that may be advanced or uncommon and potential design flaws or manufacturing defects. In addition due to their experience product testers can consider the product s quality relative to competitor products in their evaluation. However due to the specialized knowledge required to formulate these reviews only a very limited number of expert opinions may be available and are assembled slowly and infrequently in comparison to reviews from personal consumers.

In some cases product testers receive the product from the manufacturer prior to its widespread release. Reviews published prior to the release of a product may further the advertising objectives of the manufacturer by creating hype surrounding the product and increasing demand for the product before it is even available. Pre release reviews may also help potential personal consumers make a purchasing decision about the product whereas they would otherwise have to purchase the product blindly or without basis for confidence that the product is desirable. However pre release products are usually given to product testers only weeks if not days in advance of the product s release date. Additionally for all products testers often want to publish their reviews as quickly as possible. Prompt publication of useful reviews for new products sets a reviews website apart from lagging competitors creating hype for the website establishing it as a go to source of expert opinions and generating increased website traffic all of which potentially increase advertising revenue and the profitability of the website. However urgent publication deadlines lessen the time the tester has to evaluate the product eliminating the tester s ability to consider its long term performance. This is often resolved by the product tester at a later date by adding a second review solely considering long term performance or by updating the previous view with long term results.

Because of the disadvantages inherent in each potential consumers of a product prefer to consider both reviews authored by personal consumers and those authored by product testers in order to consider a wide variety of performance data view points and opinions for a given product. In addition potential consumers often want to compare multiple reviews written by the same or a similar group of consumers for competing products in order to establish baseline expectations for that type of product.

However many conventional review websites require that a user search for different product models individually then toggle or navigate back and forth between the reviews. This presents particular for potential consumers that are not intimately familiar with the product or product type as they likely would not know the names and models of competing products offhand. Other conventional sites allow a user to display all products within a particular category but provide little guidance as to which of the displayed products are most similar to a selected product. Even if users are aware of comparable products they must individually select each product then again toggle or navigate back and forth between reviews.

Some sites attempt to remedy this by offering a comparison feature that allows for side by side comparison of products within a category using a matrix. However a user must first determine which products he or she wishes to compare which can be tedious and time consuming for a user that does not readily know which competing products are most similar to a given product. Furthermore if a large number of products are selected a sizeable matrix is created that is either jammed into a single page for display or broken up into multiple pages which again requires toggling and navigation between different products. Results delivered in this fashion are limited to those individual products that were selected by the user thus comparable products unknown to a user are not included or brought to the user s attention for consideration. Further even if additional products are later identified as comparable by the user they cannot be added to the comparison without running a new search.

Thus there is a need in the art for systems and methods for easily navigating a collection of editorial content related to products that allow a potential consumer to intelligently and fully consider similar products from many different manufacturers. This allows a potential consumer to efficiently research products using their reviews and ultimately select a product to purchase that will best meet their expectations.

This invention meets those needs and others by providing seamless continuous structured access to relevant product reviews. Users of embodiments of the invention can advance from one product review to another by selecting navigational buttons representing the previous and next product reviews from within a product review being currently viewed. The previous product review represents the product review the user was viewing prior to the currently viewed review. The next product review is determined based on a simple learning engine that presents the next relevant similar product along with another product that is for example either cheaper or more expensive than the review being currently viewed. This simplifies the user experience by eliminating the need to go back to a listing or search page to research products similar to the product whose review is being viewed.

In one embodiment of the invention a computer implemented method for navigating a collection of editorial content associated with products is disclosed the method comprising displaying a first editorial content related to a first product to a user aggregating and displaying a plurality of editorial content related to a plurality of products to the user wherein each product of the plurality of products has at least one attribute shared with the first product and at least one attribute exclusive to the product within the plurality of products receiving a selection from the user of a second editorial content related to a second product from the plurality of editorial content aggregating a modified plurality of editorial content related to a modified plurality of products wherein each product of the modified plurality of products has at least one attribute shared with the second product and at least one attribute exclusive to the product within the modified plurality of products and displaying the first editorial content the second editorial content and the modified plurality of editorial content. A system according to an embodiment of the invention is a computing device comprising a display device a communication module and a processor programmed to accomplish these functional steps.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention also is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A system and method for navigating a collection of editorial content associated with products is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments. It is apparent to one skilled in the art however that the present invention can be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiment.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views is a flowchart illustrating a computer implemented method for navigating a collection of editorial content associated with products according to one embodiment. The editorial content within the collection can be any combination of graphical numerical symbolical and or textual ratings evaluations opinions narratives or descriptions relating to products.

The products can be any tangible or intangible goods or services. In one embodiment the products are a physical products such as for example cars car technology equipment cell phones cell phone accessories computers digital cameras MP3 players MP3 player accessories appliances camcorders components desktops games GPS devices graphics cards hard drives external or internal disc burners home audio equipment home video equipment internet access equipment digital voice equipment televisions television equipment laptops monitors networking equipment Wi Fi equipment peripherals printers security equipment and web hosting equipment

In another embodiment the products are digital content. Digital content includes any data capable of being recorded onto a computer readable medium such as for example software multimedia such as audio video images etc. documents presentations digital books spreadsheets databases streaming content websites and the like. Digital content includes all such content regardless of whether it is preexisting or created on the fly live or recorded and or streaming or saved. Further products can be services such as travel services and related properties.

Further the term products as used herein can refer to either a single or multiple categories of products e.g. digital SLR cameras electronics with HD capabilities etc. manufacturers of products e.g. Nikon Sony Apple etc. or product models or types of models e.g. D5000X Bravia either alone or in combination with each other. The collection of editorial content relating to a particular product is ordinarily authored by users of that product including both personal and organizational consumers as described above. Thus exemplary editorial content relating to a product may include for instance a review of Nikon D5000X digital SLR camera written by a consumer or a review of Bluray technology in general written by a product tester. It is also possible although less common that editorial content is submitted by non users of the product such as acquaintances of users potential users or any other person with no firsthand knowledge of the product. It is also contemplated that editorial content can be automatically generated such as by a machine.

Each product has one or more associated attributes that define features of that product including parts specifications pricing warranty accessories software and the like For example the Canon Vixia HF S21 camcorder may have the following attributes camcorder 1080p 200 zoom 8 10 megapixels 1 2.6 optical sensor CMOS sensor 1399.99 0.3 lux min illumination sec min shutter speed 1 2000 sec max shutter speed 1 year limited manufacturer warranty black 16.6 oz 3 in height 3.8 in depth 2.9 in height cables included etc.

As illustrated in a first editorial content related to a first product is displayed to a user at processing block . The first editorial content may be displayed to the user in response to a user query which is satisfied by the delivery of the content. For example a user may click a link for an iPhone 4 review on www.cnet.com that generates a query on the website for the page. The website s response delivering the iPhone 4 review to the user will satisfy the user s query.

A processing block a plurality of editorial content related to a plurality of products is aggregated and displayed to the user. A plurality or collection of editorial content may refer to either just one or more than one item of editorial content. Similarly the plurality of products may refer to either just one or more than one product

Each item of editorial content in the collection is selected and aggregated according to a set of conditions. In one embodiment the set of conditions requires that at least two items of editorial content are selected and aggregated one related to a product having a lower price than the first product and one related to a product having a higher price than the first product. In another embodiment a condition is applied at least one item of editorial content is required that has a price within a specified deviation of the first product s price. The selection of this item is intended to show the user at least one product at a similar price point.

In still another embodiment the set of conditions requires that the product related to the editorial content have at least one attribute in common with or shared with the first product. Thus if as in the previous example the iPhone 4 is the first product the Motorola DROID would satisfy this rule because it has a smart phone attribute in common with the iPhone 4 .

The set of conditions may further specify that the product related to the editorial content has at least one attribute exclusive to the product from within the plurality of products. In order words the product must have at least one attribute that none of the other products have that are related to editorial content that as already been selected and aggregated into the collection. This rule prevents duplications of products in the case that more than one piece of editorial content relates to a single product. In other words it ensures that each product and thus its related editorial content is unique.

For example if the Motorola DROID has two reviews one written by Vladimir and the other by Henry only one or the other could satisfy the rule. In order words if Vladimir s review of the Motorola DROID has already been selected and added to the collection of editorial content Henry s review would not be added because both are related to the same product with the same set of attributes. Thus in this example Vladimir s review of the Motorola DROID satisfies both conditions and can be selected for and aggregated into the plurality of editorial content. This process of conditionally selecting and aggregating a collection of qualified editorial content can be repeated for all editorial content within a database or can be stopped after the collection reaches a certain size. In either case the aggregated collection of editorial content is displayed to the user often in conjunction with the first editorial content.

At processing block a selection from the user of a second editorial content related to a second product from the plurality of editorial content is received. Continuing the above example the user may select Vladimir s review of the Motorola DROID 

At processing block a modified plurality of editorial content related to a modified plurality of products is aggregated in a similar fashion as described above with respect to processing block . However in at this step each item of editorial content is selected and aggregated only if a its related product has at least one attribute shared with the second product and b its related product has at least one attribute exclusive to the product within the modified plurality of products. If an item of editorial content meets each of the requite conditions it is possible for the item to be appear in both the plurality of editorial content and the modified plurality of editorial content.

At processing block the first editorial content the second editorial content and the modified plurality of editorial content is displayed to the user in a manner such as that shown in for example. It is contemplated that the method represented by processing blocks and can be performed once as described above or completed iteratively and in succession an indefinite number of times. In one embodiment by continually modifying and applying a set of rules to successive user selections as is done in at processing block and processing block above a learning engine can refine the selection of editorial content aggregated for the user in subsequent iterations according to the user s learned preferred products and attributes. Thus it is contemplated that the selection of editorial content may better reflect the user s preferences as more iterations of the method are performed.

As described further above modified plurality of editorial content is assembled in accordance with a set of conditions. In this embodiment the set of conditions required that the products associated with items of content within modified plurality of editorial content have at least one attribute shared with the second product the 2008 BMW M6 Coupe and at least one attribute exclusive to the product within modified plurality of editorial content . Thus items of editorial content relating to the 2008 Audi S4 the 2008 BMW M3 and the 2008 Ford Mustang which have been aggregated and displayed to the user satisfy both of these conditions.

In other words each of the 2008 Audi S4 2008 BMW M3 and 2008 Ford Mustang have at least one attribute in common with the 2008 BMW M6 Coupe such as for example model year 2008 coupe or car . Additionally each of 2008 Audi S4 2008 BMW M3 and 2008 Ford Mustang have at least one attribute that the other two do not have assuming for this example only that modified plurality of editorial content consists only of three reviews related to these three products . For example each of the three products may have an attribute of their make Audi BMW and Ford respectively which none of the products have in common with each other.

Although only three are illustrated and described in the immediate above example modified plurality of editorial content may include additional items of editorial content not shown . The user can view the additional content scrolling through modified plurality of editorial content by selecting up button and or down button . The user can also use up button and or down button to highlight a particular item of editorial content. Although shown and descriptively named as upward and downward facing arrows respectively up button and down button can be graphical numerical symbolical textual or any combination thereof that allows a user to scroll through items of editorial content within modified plurality of editorial content .

Modified plurality of editorial content also has forward button that can be selected to maximize the highlighted item of editorial content. In this case a user selection of forward button would maximize the review relating to the 2008 BMW M3 product. Again although shown as a right facing arrow forward button can be graphical numerical symbolical textual or any combination thereof that allows a user to maximize a selected review within modified plurality of editorial content .

In use when a user of one of the plurality of user systems wants to for example navigate a collection of editorial content associated with products as described above a query is communicated to communication module of server over network . For example a signal is transmitted from one of the user systems the signal having a destination address i.e. address representing the server a query i.e. a first editorial content and a return address i.e. address representing the user system that initiated the request . Processor accesses memory to retrieve the first editorial content using one or more API requests and aggregates a plurality of editorial content related to a plurality of products wherein each product of the plurality of products has at least one attribute shared with the first product and at least one attribute exclusive to the product within the plurality of products. Communication module transmits the first editorial content and the plurality of editorial content to the user over network . For example another signal may be transmitted that includes a destination address corresponding to the return address of the client system the content responsive to the query in this case the first editorial content and the plurality of editorial content.

If the user selects a second editorial content related to a second product from the plurality of editorial content another query is communicated to communication module of server over network . Processor accesses memory to retrieve the second editorial content using one or more API requests and aggregates a modified plurality of editorial content related to a modified plurality of products wherein each product of the modified plurality of products has at least one attribute shared with the second product and at least one attribute exclusive to the product within the modified plurality of products. Communication module transmits the second editorial content and the modified plurality of editorial content to the user over network .

The functions of this and other embodiments can be described as modules of computer executable instructions recorded on tangible media. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the modules described herein can be segregated in various manners over various devices and not limited to those described.

As shown in another embodiment system architecture includes web layer cache site application application programming interface and a plurality of data stores . It will be appreciated that the system architecture may vary from the illustrated architecture. For example web layer may directly access data stores the site application may directly access data stores system architecture may not include cache etc. as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Web layer is configured to receive user queries for editorial content through a web browser and return the editorial responsive to the user query as well as a collection of suggested editorial content. Web layer communicates the user queries to cache . Cache is configured to temporarily store editorial content and or related products that are accessed frequently by web layer and can be rapidly accessed by web layer . In one embodiment cache may be a caching proxy server. Cache communicates the user queries to site application .

Site application is configured to update cache and to process user queries received from web layer . Site application may identify that of the user s query requests editorial content that corresponds to data from multiple data stores. Site application can then convert the query into a request for data from multiple data stores and transmit these requests to application programming interface . Application programming interface is configured to access the plurality of data stores to collect the data responsive to the plurality of requests from site application . The plurality of data stores may include for example editorial content product attribute information and the like. It will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments only one data store may be provided to store the data.

The data in data stores is provided to application programming interface which provides the content to site application . Site application updates cache and delivers the cached content in combination with the accessed content to web layer which delivers browsable content to the user.

Computer system includes processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. and static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. which communicate with each other via bus .

Computer system may further include video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . Computer system also includes alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard cursor control device e.g. a mouse disk drive unit signal generation device e.g. a speaker and network interface device .

Disk drive unit includes computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. Software may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processor during execution thereof by computer system main memory and processor also constituting computer readable media. Software may further be transmitted or received over network via network interface device .

While computer readable medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

It should be understood that processes and techniques described herein are not inherently related to any particular apparatus and may be implemented by any suitable combination of components. Further various types of general purpose devices may be used in accordance with the teachings described herein. It may also prove advantageous to construct specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein. The present invention has been described in relation to particular examples which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different combinations of hardware software and firmware will be suitable for practicing the present invention.

Other implementations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. Various aspects and or components of the described embodiments may be used singly or in any combination. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

