---

title: Automated communication configuration
abstract: A method for use at a user device of a communications network include utilizing a configuration file obtained from a remote device to configure a communication of an application executed at the user device without requiring user input, the configuration file including logic applied by the application to identify, from a plurality of data bearers available to the user device, a select data bearer for use in conducting the communication based on one or more parameters representative of the current operational context of the user device. The user device includes a storage module to store a configuration file obtained from a remote device and a processing module to execute an application, wherein during execution the application is to utilize logic of configuration file to identify, from a plurality of data bearers available to the user device, a select data bearer for use in conducting a communication of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504809&OS=08504809&RS=08504809
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08504809
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100527
---
The present disclosure relates generally to networks and relates more particularly to configuration of communications in a network.

Many user devices such as so called smart mobile phones support numerous applications that require data communications with remote sources or destinations. Increasingly these user devices are capable of connecting to multiple data bearers for conducting these communications.

The numerous innovative teachings of the present application will be described with particular reference to the presently preferred example embodiments. However it should be understood that this class of embodiments provides only a few examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings herein. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily delimit any of the various claimed inventions. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others.

For ease of discussion the techniques of the present disclosure in some instances are illustrated in the example context of a third generation 3G or fourth generation 4G mobile telecommunications network utilized to convey voice data multimedia data and other content between mobile devices service providers and other components of the network. However these techniques are not limited to this example context but instead can be implemented in any of a variety networks configured to support the transmission of data using the guidelines provided herein.

It is impractical to expect the user to understand or deduce the proper connection settings for the myriad of applications and services available through the user device. Accordingly in at least one embodiment an updatable configuration file is installed at the user device so as to facilitate automatic that is without user input configuration of communications. The configuration file includes data representing logic used to determine one or more parameters regarding the current operational context of the user device. The configuration file further includes data representing logic that uses the one or more parameters to configure a corresponding communication such as by selecting an appropriate data bearer from a plurality of data bearers available at the user device by determining whether the communication is to be proxied and if so the address of the proxy server to be used and the like. In one embodiment the user device accesses the configuration file from a service provider or other source and then makes the configuration file available for application to the communications of one or more applications executed at the user device. When an application is attempting to establish a communication platform software such as an operating system at the user device accesses the configuration file and applies the logic represented therein to identify the appropriate configuration settings for the communication. The service provider can update the configuration file to reflect changed network conditions or to account for new applications or new session types. The same configuration file may be used for different applications at the user device. Further the same configuration file may be provided to multiple user devices for consistency between the operations of the user devices. By automating the configuration of a communication through the application of the logic of the configuration file the user device can more optimally facilitate communications for multiple varied applications in a manner that is transparent to the user.

The service provider includes components configured to manage the provision of content and services including content and services available from content providers and . As such the service provider can include for example a telecommunications service provider. In the depicted example the service provider includes one or more proxy servers such as proxy servers and a device configuration manager and a billing system . Other components typically implemented by a service provider such as routers gateways application servers and the like are omitted for clarity purposes. The proxy servers and provide various services for communications conducted with the user devices of the network including proxying of communications e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP proxying authentication parental control and value added services. The billing system maintains records of service plans and features associated with the users of the user devices . To illustrate the service provider may provide the option for a user to pay a fee to obtain prioritized use of a particular data bearer or to obtain the otherwise prohibited use of a particular data bearer for a particular class of communications and the user s acceptance of this option may be reflected in the user s record at the billing system . The device configuration manager manages the generation and provision of configuration files such as configuration files and that are used to configure communications conducted by applications executed at the user devices of the network . The configuration files may be stored in a database or other data store managed by the device configuration manager .

The user device includes any of a variety of user manipulated devices serviced at least in part by the service provider . Examples of such user devices include smart cellular telephones notebook computers desktop computers tablet and slate computers networked personal digital assistants PDAs networks multimedia devices such as networked portable music players video game consoles and the like. For ease of illustration an example context whereby the user device comprises a smart phone is used below to illustrate various aspects of the present disclosure.

In the depicted example the user device includes a processing module a memory and one or more communications interfaces such as communications interfaces and . The communications interfaces and comprise interfaces configured to conduct communications with the service provider a public network such as the Internet or both via various types of data bearers such as via short range medium range or long range wireless data bearers wired data bearers tethering through another network connected device and the like. As one example a data bearer available to the user device includes a data bearer implemented via a IEEE 802.11 connection to an access point which in turn is connected to the service provider and the public network via for example a local area network . As another example the user device can be connected to the service provider or the public network via a data bearer implemented via a wireless mobile telephony link implementing for example a GSM 3G standard to a cellular base station which in turn is connected to one or both of the service provider and the public network via for example a telecommunications network . As yet another example the user device can be connected to the service provider or the public network via a data bearer implemented via a wired connection such as an Ethernet connection to a network which in turn is connected to one or both of the service provider and the public network . As an additional example the user device may have available data bearers via tethering to another user device. To illustrate the network further may include a user device connected to one or both of the service provider and the public network via a network . The user device thus takes advantage of data bearers available to the user device by tethering the user device to the user device via for example a wired connection such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or via a short range wireless connection such as via a Bluetooth connection. Although illustrates an example whereby each data bearer utilizes a separate network to connect to the service provider and the public network in other instances two or more data bearers may connect to one or both of the service provider and the public network via the same network. For example the networks and may comprise the same network implemented as a digital subscriber line DSL or cable modem connection to the service provider . Further in certain instances the network connecting the user device to the service provider can include the public network or a network that is part of the service provider .

The memory stores executable instructions associated with platform software an operating system for example and one or more applications such as applications and . The processing module is configured to execute the platform software and the applications by accessing and executing the corresponding executable instructions from the memory whereby the execution of the executable instructions manipulates the processing module to perform the one or more operations associated with the platform software or the application. The applications at the user device can include for example web browser applications texting applications multimedia applications telephony applications gaming applications and the like. Each application is associated with one or more corresponding application types whereby the application type may be represented by a unique application type identifier provided by the user device by the service provider or the developer of the application. The application type can represent a source of the application such as by identifying the service provider that supports the application or the developer that developed the application. Alternatively the application type can represent the nature of the communications conducted with the application. For example the application type of an application can reflect the data rate of communications conducted with the application the type or content of data communicated by the application the priority or quality of service QoS level of the communications of the application and the like.

One or more of the applications executed at the user device may initiate or otherwise make use of a corresponding communication to transfer data to or from the user device . To illustrate a web browser application may establish an HTTP session to access data representing an indicated web site for presentation to a user of the user device . As another example a multimedia application may initiate a real time streaming protocol RTP session or similar communication to obtain a multimedia stream from one of the content providers. Each communication may be subject to various settings or conditions based on the particular circumstances of the communication or particular circumstances of the operation of the user device . In the web browser example described above it may be advantageous to proxy the HTTP session through one of the proxy servers or so that authentication and parental control features can be applied to the HTTP session. In the multimedia application example described above the service provider may require that the FTP session be conducted via only a limited set of data bearers so as to avoid overwhelming other lower capacity data bearers.

While some or all of the communications conducted by the user device may be subject to certain conditions or configurations such settings are not universal among the applications available for execution at the user device nor are the settings equally applicable to different communications within the same application. Moreover it may be advantageous for the service provider to change or update the configuration settings so as to reflect the current state of the network or to reflect higher or lower classes of purchased services that allow or disallow identified applications from using certain data bearers. As such it is difficult for a user to maintain awareness of the appropriate configuration for each communication the user is likely to encounter while operating the user device . Accordingly in at least one embodiment the service provider generates and maintains the configuration files that are utilized by the user devices of the network so as to automatically configure application initiated communications without requiring manual user input and in a manner that facilitates seamless updates to the configuration settings.

Each configuration file includes data representative of logic to be applied by the platform software for a communication initiated by an application so as to configure settings of the communication. These settings can include for example the particular data bearers permitted for use and a preferred selection order the particular access point name APN to be used the proxy settings for the communication and the like. The logic further can represent operations to be performed by the user device to determine particular parameters regarding the current operational context of the user device whereby these parameters are utilized in establishing the settings for the communication. The parameters of the operational context of the user device can include but is not limited to a geographical location of the user device as indicated by for example geographical positioning system GPS coordinates a direction that the user device is facing a remaining battery power of the user device applications or application types currently executed by the user device data input or output rates of the user device features enabled disabled at the user device data bearers available to the user device current characteristics of the available data bearers and the like.

In one embodiment the configuration file is implemented as a proxy access control PAC file that utilizes a scripting language JavaScript for example to represent the logic to be applied. The scripts of the configuration file may represent conditional operations such as if then else logic partial string matches and other logic to test include or exclude various conditions in establishing the settings for a communication. The scripts may use application programming interface API calls used by the platform software to obtain the parameters of the current operational context of the user device .

In operation the device configuration manager makes the configuration files and available for use by the user devices . In one embodiment the configuration files and are transmitted to the user devices in association with a firmware update such as during a firmware over the air FOTA push process. In another embodiment the platform software is configured with a pointer or other link to a particular filename and location at the service provider and the device configuration manager stores the most recent version of the corresponding configuration file with the filename at the specified location. Accordingly the platform software can obtain the most recent version of the configuration file by accessing the specified file at the specified location in response to a reboot of the user device a start up of the application a detectable network event that signifies a substantial network change a network initiated push message to check for a new file or other condition that allows maintenance of a timely configuration file.

In the depicted example the configuration file is stored in the memory of the user device for access by the platform software executed at the user device. In an alternative embodiment the configuration file may be stored at for example a register file a flash memory a disc drive or other storage component of the user device . In either instance the platform software that utilizes the configuration file can be configured to point to a particular local file name or local location to access the configuration file . Any updated configuration files thus may be stored under the local file name or at the local location so that the platform software uses the most recent version of the configuration file.

At block the configuration file is obtained by the user device for implementation by one or more applications of the user device. In one embodiment the configuration file is obtained through a firmware update such as a firmware over the air FOTA push. The firmware update can be initiated in response to an update to the configuration file. In another embodiment the basic input output system BIOS or operating system of the user device includes a pointer to a filename and remote location associated with the configuration file such that the user device requests the configuration file from the service provider at a boot up or reboot of the user device. In yet another embodiment execution of an application causes the user device to request the configuration file from the service provider . Once obtained the configuration file can be maintained in a secure location at the user device such as in memory accessible only to the operating system so as to prevent unauthorized access or tampering.

At block an application executed at the user device initiates a communication to communicate data between the user device and one or more remote devices. To illustrate a web browser application may initiate an HTTP session to communicate web page information or a simple messaging service SMS application may initiate a user datagram protocol UDP session to communicate text messages. In response to initiating a communication at block the platform software accesses the configuration file and utilizes the logic represented by the configuration file to configure the initiated communication without requiring user input to set the configuration settings. As described above the configuration file can include one or more scripts executed by the platform software to determine one or more parameters of the current operational context of the user device and from these parameters configure one or more settings of the communication such as selecting an available data bearer over which the communication is conducted configuring proxy settings and the like.

As noted above the same configuration file may be used for different communications within a given application and the same configuration file may be used for communications from multiple applications. Accordingly the processes of blocks and may be repeated for each application or each initiated communication.

These parameters can include parameters related to whether the user device is operating on battery power and if so the amount of battery power remaining. The parameters also can include parameters related to the size of the data to be transmitted during the communication for example the file size of a file to be transferred during an FTP session or a minimum average or peak rate of data to be communicated during the communication. The parameters further can include parameters that identify the data bearers available to the user device or parameters related to the network statistics of the available data bearers such as the average and peak bandwidths packet loss rates response times and the like. The parameters also may include parameters related to the destination of the communication such as the IP address of the destination or the domain associated with the destination or parameters related to the communication protocol to be used for the communication such as HTTP FTP secure sockets layer SSL and the like . The parameters also may include parameters relating to the application type of the application initiating the communication. The application type can be identified based on the types of processes performed by the application such as a multimedia processing type a game application type a communication application type and the like. Alternatively the application type can be identified on the types of communications conducted by the application. Moreover as noted above the application type can be identified based on a type identifier set by the service provider or the developer of the application. Other parameters such as those relating to geographical location direction and the like also may be used.

The services provided by the service provider to a user often are tied to the particular service plan elected by the user. Accordingly the parameters additionally can include parameters related to the current billing status or service plan associated with the user device . To illustrate the service provider may have a default service arrangement whereby users are required to use a Wi Fi data bearer for downloading multimedia files and are prohibited from using the service provider s mobile telephony data bearer for such communications. However the service provider may provide an upgrade or alternative service plan whereby a user can bypass this default setting and instead be permitted to utilize the mobile telephony data bearer for the downloading of multimedia files. In this case the user s election of this alternative service plan can be reflected in the logic of a configuration file generated for the particular user.

After using the logic of the configuration file to obtain the relevant parameters the platform software then uses other logic of the configuration file to configure the settings of the communication based on the determined operating parameters. To illustrate the configuration file may include logic utilized to select or identify at block a particular data bearer from one or more available data bearers for conducting the communication based on one or more of the parameters. The configuration file also may include logic utilized to determine at block whether the communication is to be proxied and if so the address or other identifier of the proxy server that is to be used for proxying the communication. In the event that the user device is a mobile telephony device the configuration file further can include logic utilized to determine at block a particular access point name APN to be used for the communication.

Using the process of described above a service provider can configure and re configure the user devices supported by the service provider for more optimal use of the data bearers connecting the user devices to remote devices. One example of this improved decision making includes providing a value added service for a login phase. To illustrate the service provider may be partnered with an audio service that needs value added proxy support for the login phase but does not require proxying for the actual content feeds. In this example the configuration file may include information representing the following logic 

As another example of the improved decision making the service provider may seek to limit access to particular types of data bearers when other types are available. To illustrate a service provider may prefer the use of a Wi Fi data bearer over a mobile telephony data bearer for application types related to the streaming of video data from a particular source. Accordingly the configuration file may include information representing the following logic 

IF destinationURL myvideo.com AND IF Wi Fi available THEN SET bearer Wi Fi ELSE IF mobile telephony available THEN SET bearer mobile telephony

Alternatively the service provider may seek to limit the streaming to only Wi Fi and thus prevent video streaming if unavailable in which case the configuration file may include information representing the following logic 

IF destinationURL myvideo.com AND Wi Fi available THEN SET bearer Wi Fi ELSE return errorCode cannot establish connection 

As noted above the service plan elected by the user or operator of the user device may influence the configuration of a communication of an application. To illustrate the user may elect to upgrade the service plan so as to gain access to a certain data bearer for certain types of communications that otherwise are not permitted on the data bearer. In this manner the user may have the option to pay a monthly fee to gain access to a mobile telephony data bearer for video streaming. Accordingly a change in a user s service plan can result in a corresponding update to the configuration file associated with the user. To illustrate when a user upgrades the service plan to include access to a particular data bearer for a particular application type the device configuration manager can update the user s configuration file so as to reflect this new option. Conversely when a user downgrades the service plan to remove access to a particular data bearer the device configuration manager can update the user s configuration file to reflect this change. These changes can be reflected in the configuration file as for example a change in the selection priority among permitted data bearers addition of logic that permits selection of a data bearer removal of logic that permits selection of a data bearer and the like.

Although various examples of the logic implemented by the configuration file have been described for illustrative purposes the present disclosure is not limited to these examples. Rather the configuration file can include logic that uses any of a variety of operating parameters and combinations thereof to configure any of a variety of settings of a communication. As such a service provider can take advantage of the ease at which the configuration file can be updated and distributed to dynamically configure the user devices supported by the service provider to more optimally utilize the communication resources of the network.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into a user device. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse joystick or arrow pads. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions such as software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media. The network interface device can provide connectivity to a network such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or other network.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions to perform one or more of the operations described above. In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writeable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission such as TCP IP UDP IP RTSP and HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description of the Drawings various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description of the Drawings with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosed subject matter. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present disclosed subject matter is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

