---

title: Consolidating multi-party communications
abstract: Methods, devices, and products facilitate consolidating multi-user communications by redirecting calls to a multi-user device, with which multiple users can interact. A multi-user device monitors the density of users and devices within a specified distance of the multi-user device. Based at least in part on the proximity of a user, the multi-user device can designate a preferred device associated with the user and inform a multi-user-device server of the preference. The multi-user-device server provides a conference server with instructions that include contact information for the preferred devices to be used by the conference server when initiating a multi-user communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868650&OS=08868650&RS=08868650
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08868650
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100712
---
Embodiments of the technology are defined by the claims below not this summary. A high level overview of various aspects of the technology are provided here for that reason to provide an overview of the disclosure and to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description section. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. In brief and at a high level this disclosure describes among other things ways to consolidate conference communications and other multi party communications using dynamic awareness of available multi user devices. Utilization of aspects of the invention described herein allows for routing conference communications to a multi user device when two or more of the conference participants are able to utilize the multi user device together during the conference.

In a first aspect embodiments of the invention include computer readable media with computer executable instructions that facilitate an illustrative method of consolidating a multi party conference. In embodiments the illustrative method includes receiving a conference setup request from a computing device associated with a first user. In an embodiments for example the conference setup request can include a request to setup a conference between the first user a second user and a third user. Embodiments of the illustrative method further include determining that a multi user device is designated as a preferred device associated with the third user and establishing the conference in which the third user participates by way of the multi user device.

In a second aspect embodiments of the invention include computer readable media with computer executable instructions that facilitate an illustrative method of consolidating a multi party conference. According to various embodiments the illustrative method includes receiving conference contact information from a multi user device. For example the conference contact information can include an indication of whether a first user is within a predetermined physical proximity of the multi user device. In embodiments the illustrative method further includes storing the conference contact information in a status record maintained by a multi user device server which may maintain any number of status records corresponding to multi user devices. Upon receiving a conference notification from a conference server the multi user device server determines based at least in part upon said conference contact information a preferred device associated with the first user. In embodiments the illustrative method can also include providing the conference server with a setup instruction that includes conference contact information that identifies the preferred device associated with the first user.

In a third aspect a multi user communications device facilitates consolidation of multi party communications. According to embodiments the device includes a user proximity detection component that determines whether a first user is within a specified distance of the multi user device and that generates user proximity information associated with the first user. In embodiments the device also includes a preference manager that receives user proximity information from the user proximity detection component and determines a preferred device associated with the first user. According to some embodiments the device further includes a reporter that provides a multi user device server with conference contact information associated with the first user.

The subject matter of the present technology is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to define the technology which is what the claims do. Rather the claimed subject matter might be embodied in other ways to include different components steps or combinations of components or steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step or other generic term might be used herein to connote different components or methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Throughout this disclosure several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present technology. The following is a list of these acronyms 

Embodiments of the technology may be embodied as among other things a method system or set of instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media. Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplate media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

To provide context for the detailed description of the inventions below a brief overview of some embodiments of aspects of the inventions follows. Increasingly telecommunication service consumers are looking for ways to utilize services in efficient economical and safe ways. For example companies are often interested in reducing costs and families may be interested in enjoying conferencing events together. Using the latter as an example several family members could be traveling in their vehicle which is equipped with a multi user device that includes for instance an on board flat screen computer and broadband mobile telecommunications unit MTU . If a call is placed to one or more of those individuals in the family embodiments of the invention can facilitate determining based on the location and preferences of the callers whether the call is directly routed to the vehicle s MTU or separately to each individual s mobile device. In this manner a multi party call can be consolidated by directing several of the calls to one device.

Embodiments of the invention include enhancements to the conference establishment process devices and network architectures to facilitate consolidation of multi party communications. For example in an embodiment a multi user device can broadcast its presence to and detect the presence of all communication devices within physical boundaries established for the multi user device range e.g. a range in which a user or device must be for the redirection of a call to the multi device to be triggered . The multi user device can keep a multi user device server always aware of which mobile devices and or users are within the multi user device range. In embodiments the multi user device can designate itself as a preferred device associated with a user for receiving conference invitations. According to embodiments of the invention users can be provided with interfaces and the like that allow the users to override designations of preferred devices input their own designations configure rules for designating preferred devices and the like.

According to various embodiments of the invention upon receiving a conference setup request a conference server verifies by interacting with the multi user device server the preferred device for each user and forwards conference invitations to the users via the users preferred devices. In some embodiments redirection of conference invitations can be triggered based on the density of users and or devices within the multi user device range. For instance in an embodiment when the number of devices within the multi user device range exceeds a threshold the conference server can be instructed to attempt to establish communication with the multi user device instead of each individual user s device.

According to some embodiments prior to initiation of a conference the multi user device can present an alert with a list of users and terminals originally targeted. The users in the proximity of the multi user device which are listed with the alert can provide input to the multi user device to indicate whether they will communicate via the multi user device e.g. they can accept the conference invitation . Other users can decline or if a user is no longer near the multi user device the user may input nothing at all. The inputs or lack thereof are passed to the conference server which establishes a conference. For those users that either did not respond or rejected the conference invitation via the multi user device in embodiments the conference server can resend conference invitations to those user s individual devices or some other designated device.

Turning now to a block diagram of an illustrative computing device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . In embodiments computing device can be a server a bank of servers a personal computer a mainframe a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a laptop computing device a mobile computer and the like. Computing device is capable of transmitting and or receiving one or more forms of communications. In some embodiments computing device can communicate by way of cable a public switched telephone system PTSN a wireless protocol or the like. Examples of communications that can be transmitted and or received include voice calls text messages multimedia messages e mails calendar updates task reminders push to x interactions e.g. push to talk PTT push to video PTV push to locate PTL etc. and the like.

Although some components are shown in the singular they may be plural. For example computing device might include multiple processors or multiple radios etc. In other embodiments some components shown may not be present upon implementation. For example where computing device is a mobile communications device such as for example a cell phone a smart phone or the like computing device generally will include a radio . On the other hand where computing device is a server personal computer laptop or the like computing device may not necessarily include a radio .

As illustratively shown computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples various components together including memory a processor a presentation component a radio input output ports input output components and a power supply .

Various memory components that memory might take the form of have been previously described. Thus further elaboration thereon is unnecessary here only to say that memory component can include any type of medium that is capable of storing information e.g. a database . A database can be any collection of information. In one embodiment memory includes a set of embodied computer executable instructions that when executed facilitate various aspects disclosed herein. These embodied instructions will variously be referred to as instructions or application for short.

Processor might actually be multiple processors that receive instructions and process them accordingly. Presentation component includes the likes of a display a speaker as well as other components that can present information such as a lamp LED or even lighted keyboards .

Radio represents a radio that facilitates communication with a wireless also referred to herein interchangeably as mobile telecommunications network. Illustrative wireless telecommunications technologies include CDMA GPRS TDMA GSM and the like including what is known in the art as WiMax technology and also Long Term Evolution LTE . In some embodiments radio might also facilitate other types of wireless communications including Wi Fi communications Bluetooth communications and GIS communications.

Input output ports might take on a variety of forms. Illustrative input output ports include a USB jack stereo jack infrared port proprietary communications ports and the like. Input output components include items such as keyboards microphones touch screens and any other item usable to directly or indirectly input data into mobile device . Power supply includes items such as batteries fuel cells or any other component that can act as a power source to power computing device .

Turning now to an exemplary network environment is illustrated. Exemplary network environment includes users and who communicate by way of devices and respectively. Exemplary network environment also includes conference server multi user device and multi user device server . The components and can communicate for example over one or more networks not illustrated herein for clarity . Such networks can be any type of network such as for example the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless LAN WLAN a mobile network MN a PTSN or the like.

The exemplary network environment shown in is an example of one suitable network environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the inventions disclosed throughout this document. Neither should the exemplary network environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in various embodiments components of network environment can be implemented in any number of configurations using any number of machines and the like.

In embodiments other arrangements and elements e.g. machines components interfaces functions orders servers databases etc. can be used in addition to or instead of those shown and some elements may be omitted altogether. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance various functions can be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

It should be understood by those knowledgeable about the art that each of these elements of the network environment is also scalable. That is for example network environment can include a large number of mobile devices users servers multi user devices or the like. Additionally for example a mobile network not illustrated in which may host for example conference server and multi user device server may actually include a number of network elements including and in addition to conference server and multi user device server . Any or all of these network elements may be implemented using any number of server modules devices machines and the like.

With continued reference to user devices and can be any type of devices capable of transmitting and receiving communications including for example landline telephones mobile phones computers smart devices and the like. For example in embodiments user devices and can include mobile device described above with reference to . As the term is used herein multi user device can include any type of computing device capable of facilitating communications between one or more users that interact with the multi user device and other devices or users in communication therein. In some embodiments any or all of user devices and can also be multi user devices.

In embodiments a multi user device facilitates such communications by providing input and output devices that receive input and provide output to multiple users respectively. For example a multi user device can include a large screen or a video projector for making video communications available to multiple users at the same time. In some embodiments a multi user device can include speakers that project audio communications to multiple users microphones that record sound made by multiple users and the like.

Because of device limitations users comfort limitations practical circumstances and the like in embodiments multi user device has an associated multi user device range . Multi user device range includes a specified distance in one or more directions from multi user device within which multi user device can be used for example by users and to communicate with other devices or users such as for example users and via user devices and respectively. In embodiments multi user device can include a residential system that may include for example a desktop computer or a laptop computer. In other embodiments multi user device can include a mobile telecommunications unit MTU carried on a person or disposed within a vehicle. For example an MTU can be a device installed in a vehicle which is equipped with an onboard display device a computing device and mobile telecommunications technology allowing for wireless communications.

In embodiments multi user device interacts with multi user device server . Multi user device server can be any type of server function machine and the like. In embodiments multi user device server is located on a mobile network not shown herein for clarity . According to various embodiments of the invention multi user device server includes a database in which is stored a status record which corresponds to multi user device .

In various embodiments exemplary network environment can include any number of multi user devices and any number of multi user device servers . In some embodiments multi user device server maintains status records for a number of multi user devices . In this case other multi user device servers may maintain status records for other groups of multi user devices . According to various embodiments the status record corresponding to multi user device can be updated dynamically.

As further explained below with references to status record can include conference contact information associated with a user or . Multi user device includes technology that allows multi user device to determine a density state associated with multi user device . The density state can include information related to the number of users and that are within the multi user device range number of devices and that are within the multi user device range and other information including the distance from multi user device that a user or or a device or is located.

In embodiments multi user device may register for example users and which may in turn provide information associated with the respective mobile devices and . In embodiments multi user device monitors multi user device range to keep a dynamic density status associated with multi user device . In some embodiments multi user device can be adapted to monitor a density of mobile devices and within multi user device range . In some embodiments multi user device can monitor a density of users and within multi user device range . In other embodiments multi user device can monitor both users and and devices and . For example in embodiments multi user device can broadcast its identity to mobile devices and and initiate a data exchange with mobile devices and . In other embodiments mobile devices and can be equipped with technology that allow them to broadcast their presence and or location. In some embodiments multi user device can detect the presence of mobile devices and using any number of other suitable methods as well.

According to various embodiments of the invention multi user device provides conference contact information associated with users and for example to multi user device server . As discussed above multi user device stores the conference contact information that it receives from multi user device in a status record associated with multi user device . The status record can be maintained in a database associated with multi user device server .

With continued reference to user may provide a conference setup request to conference server for example by way of mobile device . To illustrate the functionality of aspects of embodiments of the present invention suppose the conference setup request provided by the user is a request to initiate a conference communication referred to herein alternatively as a conference between users and . In embodiments of the invention conference server notifies multi user device of the conference setup request and receives setup instructions from multi user device server .

Setup instructions can include information such as conference contact information associated with users and . Conference contact information as used herein includes information related to a user s proximity to multi user device and the user s preferences for receiving conference invitations. For example in embodiments multi user device can detect that a user or is with multi user device range . As explained in further detail below multi user device may assign itself as a preferred device associated with the users and in response to determining that users and are located within multi user device range . However in some situations a user or may not wish to participate in conference via multi user device but may wish rather to participate in any potential conferences using another device such as for example the user s respective mobile device or . In order to override the multi user device preference user or can provide user preferences to multi user device .

As used herein user preferences include information provided by user or related to conference contact information associated with the user. For example user may provide user preferences in the form of input to multi user device indicating that user prefers to be contacted via mobile device in the event of an attempt to set up a conference. In response multi user device can provide conference contact information to multi user device server associated with user . The conference contact information includes an indication that a preferred device associated with user is mobile device . Thus when conference server notifies multi user device server of a conference setup request initiated by user multi user device can provide conference contact information associated with user to conference server .

Conference server includes technology for receiving and interpreting setup instructions from multi user device server . After receiving setup instructions from multi user device server conference server can extract the conference contact information associated with user that indicates that conference server should send any conference invitations meant for user to mobile device . Similarly for example user may provide user preferences to multi user device indicating a desire to keep multi user device as a preferred device associated with user . In other embodiments user can provide user preferences to multi user device that indicate user is unavailable for any conferences. In various embodiments of the present invention any number of other types of information can be provided to multi user device as user preferences to modify conference contact information associated with users.

With reference to the preceding exemplary scenario after receiving conference contact information from multi user device server conference server initiates a conference by sending out conference invitations to the various invited users and . In the present example conference server may send a conference invitation to user via mobile device . According to embodiments of the invention mobile device may be designated in conference contact information as user s preferred device for conferencing. Multi user device can in embodiments have designated mobile device as a preferred device in response to determining that user is not within the multi user device range .

According to various embodiments multi user device can include information associated with other devices such as for example mobile device that user may interact with from time to time. In various embodiments user can establish priority rules preferences conditions and the like to be used by multi user device when designated preferred devices associated with user . Continuing with the example described above and with continued reference to conference server sends additional conference invitations to users and . Based on the conference contact information received from multi user device conference server sends the invitation meant for user to multi user device . Similarly conference server sends the invitation meant for user to multi user device based upon setup instructions containing conference contact information associated with user received from multi user device .

Turning now to an exemplary operating environment is illustrated. Exemplary operating environment includes users and user device and multi user device conference server multi user device server . As illustrated in multi user device may have an associated multi user device range as described above with reference to . The exemplary operating environment shown in is an example of one suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the inventions disclosed throughout this document. Neither should the exemplary operating environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in embodiments either or both of user devices and can be multi user devices.

In various embodiments of the invention multi user device range includes specified distances from multi user device within which users and may be considered to be available for a conference using multi user device . In embodiments multi user device range can include a functional range of hardware components of multi user device including for example microphones speakers display devices cameras and the like. In other embodiments multi user device range can be based on other factors such as the likelihood that a user or will find participating in a conference via multi user device to be convenient.

For example a large conference room may include a multi user device at one end of the room. In this example multi user device may have hardware components such as microphones speakers display devices and cameras that are capable of receiving input and outputting information throughout the entire room. However in some examples one might understand that one or more users at one end of the conference room may not wish to participate in the conference via multi user device because of the trouble that they may have in crossing the room to use multi user device the lack of privacy or any other factor that may affect the user s comfort with using multi user device in a conference communication.

As is further illustrated in user device can include an interface for interacting with multi user device . In embodiments interface can be used for broadcasting the presence of user device detecting the presence and or identity of multi user device facilitating communications e.g. exchanges of data between user device and multi user device and the like. In embodiments user can submit user preferences to multi user device by way of interface . According to various aspects of embodiments of the invention interface can be used for any number of purposes involving communicating with multi user device .

As illustrated in multi user device includes user detection component state manager and reporter . According to various embodiments of the invention user detection component gathers proximity data associated with a user or that indicates whether the user or is within multi user device range . User detection component processes this proximity data to generate user proximity information that indicates the proximity of user or to multi user device for example with respect to multi user device range . User detection component provides user proximity information to state manager which can store user proximity information in associated database .

In various embodiments state manager can also receive user preferences from users and which can be stored in database . In embodiments state manager includes functionalities for managing data stored in including but not limited to providing updates to the data stored in database extracting data in response to user or machine request and the like. For example in an embodiment state manager can designate preferred devices associated with users and . In some embodiments state manager receives user proximity information from user detection component and references the user proximity information to determine whether the information reflects a probability that the user is within multi user device range . In some embodiments for example if the probability that a user such as user is within multi user device range exceeds a threshold state manager designates multi user device as the user s default preferred device. In embodiments if the probability does not exceed the threshold state manager does not designate multi user device as the user s default preferred device in which case state manager might designate some other device as the user s default preferred device. In some cases user can communicate with multi user device to indicate a desire to replace the default preferred device designation with a different device which user can identify. User may also in embodiments be able to configure state manager to always use a particular device which may not necessarily be multi user device as the user s default preferred device.

In embodiments reporter interacts with an agent located on multi user device server . Agent and reporter can be figured to communicate with each other according to any number of protocols and communication technologies. As further illustrated in multi user device server also includes state monitor and conference interface . In embodiments state monitor receives conference contact information associated with users and via agent and stores this conference contact information in a local database . According to some embodiments of the invention multi user device server may maintain status records associated with a number of multi user devices . These records can be stored for example in database and may include conference contact information for one or more users associated with the corresponding multi user device.

With continued reference to user detection component includes proximity detector and proximity analysis engine . In embodiments proximity detector can include any number of devices sensors programs applications algorithms and the like for gathering data associated with the proximity of a user or to multi user device . In embodiments proximity detector can include for example detectors that can be used to ascertain whether a user device is within multi user device range . For example in some embodiments proximity detector can include a module that communicates with user device via interface on user device . In this manner multi user device can maintain information about the density of user devices within multi user device range .

Additionally in embodiments proximity detector can include biological detectors that can detect heat certain chemicals given off by the human body sounds and any other types of data that can be used to determine the possible proximity of a user or to multi user device . Proximity detector provides proximity data that it collects to proximity analysis engine which analyzes proximity data to determine user proximity to generate user proximity information which it provides to state manager .

User proximity information can be used for example by state manager to initially designated multi user device as a preferred device associated with a user or that is determined to be within multi user device range . According to various embodiments as explained above state manager can also receive user preferences from users and that may confirm the designation of multi user device as a preferred device for user or . In other embodiments state manager may receive user preferences from user or that include an indication that user or wishes to override the default designation of multi user device as that user s preferred device. In some embodiments the user preferences can include an identification of another device such as for example user device to be designated as user s preferred device.

In embodiments of the invention user may submit a conference setup request via user device to conference server . In response conference server provides a conference notification to multi user device server . Multi user device can provide conference contact information regarding users and to conference server which conference server utilizes in initiating the conference between users and .

Turning now to an illustrative implementation of the present invention is depicted. Illustrative implementation includes components discussed above and illustrated in . That is as illustrated in illustrative implementation includes users and user devices and multi user device multi user device server and conference server . The illustrative implementation shown in is an example of one suitable implementation and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the inventions disclosed throughout this document. Neither should the illustrative implementation be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein.

As illustrated in and more particularly as referenced by numeral multi user device may receive proximity input associated with user and or user device . Proximity detector collects proximity data in the form of proximity input . As discussed above proximity detector can collect any number of different types of data including biological indications of the presence of user or telecommunications signals from user device indicating the proximity of user device and the like. Additionally in embodiments proximity detector can receive user credentials from a user or and through an authentication process generate proximity data that can be analyzed to indicate the proximity of a user or .

In as referenced at proximity detector provides proximity data to proximity analysis engine . Proximity analysis engine processes proximity data to generate user proximity information . Proximity analysis engine provides user proximity information to state manager . Additionally according to embodiments of the invention and as referenced at proximity detector can receive proximity input associated with user . User may also submit user preferences as referenced at via an interface within multi user device to state manager which provides user preferences to state manager .

In embodiments state manager stores user proximity information and user preferences in a database . In embodiments state manager stores this information as conference contact information associated with the users and . Conference contact information can include user proximity information and user preferences both of which are associated with a user or . Conference contact information can be stored as user data in database .

According to various embodiments of the invention as shown at state reporter can receive the conference contact information associated with a user or and provide conference contact information to multi user device server via agent as shown at . As shown at agent provides conference contact information to state monitor . In embodiments state monitor stores conference contact information in database as shown at reference .

In embodiments state monitor can store conference contact information as part of a status record associated with multi user device . In various embodiments multi user device server can interact with a number of multi user devices . Accordingly database can include a number of status records associated with the multi user device .

As illustrated in at reference numeral user provides a conference setup request to conference server . In embodiments as shown as conference server provides a conference notification to multi user device server via conference interface . In embodiments conference interface can be any type of conferencing client agent application API program module or the like that facilitates communication between multi user device server and conference server .

As is further illustrated at reference numeral conference interface can retrieve conference contact information associated with a user and and as shown at reference and can provide a setup instruction to conference server to be used by conference server in setting up the requested conference. In embodiments setup instruction includes conference contact information associated with the user or . Although not shown in so as to preserve the clarity of the illustration conference server uses the information in setup instruction to provide conference invitations to users and according to conference contact information provided by multi user device server .

To recapitulate embodiments of the inventions have been disclosed in the context of computer readable media a communications device a network environment and methods for consolidating multi party communications using multi user devices. Turning to a flow diagram is provided showing an illustrative method of consolidating a multi party communication. At a first illustrative step step a conference server receives a request from a first user s device to set up a conference between a first user a second user and a third user.

At step the conference server determines that a multi user device is designated as the third user s preferred device. In embodiments the conference server determines that the multi user device designated as the third user s preferred device by receiving an indication of the preferred device from a multi user device server. In some embodiments of the invention the designation of the multi user device as the third user s preferred device is based at least in part on a determination that the third user is within a specified distance of the multi user device. In some embodiments the multi user device includes technologies for determining the proximity of the third user and can store user proximity information indicating whether the third user is within the specified distance of the multi user device. According to various embodiments of the invention a user may also provide user preferences to the multi user device and or to the multi user device server which can modify the designation of a preferred device associated with the third user.

At a final illustrative step the conference server establishes a conference between the first user the second user and the third user in which the third user participates via the multi user device. According to various embodiments of the invention the conference server receives conference contact information associated with the third user from the multi user device server. The conference server can use this conference contact information associated with the third user to determine the preferred device associated with the third user. In response the conference server sends the conference invitation meant for the third user to the third user via the user s preferred device.

Turning now to another flow chart is illustrated which depicts an exemplary method of consolidating a multiparty communication. At a first illustrative step step a multi user device server receives conference contact information from a multi user device. In embodiments the conference contact information includes an indication of whether the first user is within a predetermined physical proximity of the multi user device. In some embodiments the conference contact information may also include an indication of a preferred device associated with the first user.

At step the conference contact information is stored. According to various embodiments of the invention the conference contact information can be stored in a status record corresponding to the multi user device. In some embodiments the multi user device server may store any number of status records corresponding to any number of additional multi user devices that interact with the multi user device server. At step the conference notification is received from a conference server. In embodiments the conference notification can include any number of different types of information such as for example a request from a second user to set up a conference between the first user the second user and the third user. As illustrated at step the multi user device server determines based at least in part upon the conference contact information associated with the first user a preferred device associated with the first user.

As described above in embodiments of the invention the preferred device of the first user is the device on which the user is to be contacted for a conference. In embodiments the preferred device can be a mobile device a computer or any other type of communication device that the user may wish to use in participating in conference communications. At a step the conference server is informed of the first user s preferred device. At a step an update of the first user s conference contact information is received for example from multi user device and at a final illustrative step the multi user device server replaces the stored conference contact information associated with the user with the updated information.

Turning now to another flow chart is illustrated which depicts an exemplary method of generating conference contact information associated with a user. At a first illustrative step step a determination is made that a user is within a specified distance of the multi user device. At step user proximity information indicating that the user is within the specified distance of the multi user device is stored and at the multi user device is designated as the user s default preferred device.

According to various embodiments of the invention and as shown at user preferences are received from the user. In embodiments user preferences can include for example indications of devices that the user wishes to be designated as preferred devices any number of rules conditions or algorithms for determining the preferred device and the like. At a final illustrative step step a different device is specified as the user s preferred device. In embodiments this specification can be based for example upon information in the user preferences received from the user. That is for example the user preferences may include an instruction to designate a mobile device as the user s preferred device rather than the default designation of the multi user device.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the scope of the claims below. Embodiments of the technology have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this disclosure after and because of reading it. Alternative means of implementing the aforementioned can be completed without departing from the scope of the claims below. Certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims.

