---

title: Hydrostatically enabled structure element (HESE)
abstract: A structural element employing hydrostatic pressure to compress cohesion-less particles to significantly increase the load carrying capacity of the element along a load-bearing axis, a system for deploying said structural element and a method for deploying said structural element using the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209911&OS=08209911&RS=08209911
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08209911
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100604
---
Under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 this application claims the benefit of prior co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 237 358 Hydrostatically Enabled Structure Element HESE by Welch et al. filed Aug. 27 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.

Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

Structure elements comprising inflatables are known in the art. See for example the AirBeams of Vertigo Inc. at www.vertigo inc.com. One such element is an arch that is made of a woven fabric exterior and an internal membrane that is pressurized with air. The arch further comprises cohesionless particles that are compressed against the fabric exterior by air pressure inflating the internal membrane. This hydrostatically enabled arch when stabilized by suitable guy wires is able to support an SUV hanging from its center much more than otherwise possible without the addition of the particles. Tension straps on the top and bottom are used for additional reinforcement to support the heavy loads.

This demonstration of the concept has led to plans for further development by the U.S. Army specifically the Inverse Triaxial Structural Element ITSE Project with a goal of developing a practical demonstration of the use of very high performance tensile fabrics. The approach is to develop and test the concept using existing fabrics using structural test results to calibrate and validate and develop a finite element model FEM of structure. A validated FEM model would then be used with a continuum model to predict enhancement of fabric materials in particular those employing carbon nanotubes CNT and structure using the CNT fabric.

In support of the ITSE Project the Army developed a test structure for testing the basic concept of hydrostatic enablement. The concept of the test structure is illustrated in . Refer to showing a top view of a test apparatus with the center section further depicted for illustration purposes only. A test device incorporating a reinforced rigid external cylinder incorporates a center comprising a flexible tube filled with cohesion less particles such as dry sand the cylinder filled with water . The water is pressurized to a pressure represented as to enable the center column to withstand a load represented as . As the value of increases to a pre specified amount the available loading capacity of also increases to a pre specified amount as the center column of particles stiffens under the increasing compressive force . This is best seen in in which a first differential stress strain curve depicts the relationship between and for a nominal value of . As is increased by increasing the water pressure in the cylinder the value of also increases as indicated by the differential stress strain curve and the dashed curve indicating the significant increase in slope of the differential curve with an increase in . This follows the Mohr Coulomb relation for cohesion less soils tan 1 where 

The U.S. Army has investigated using thin wall structures for hydrostatically enabled structure elements. Refer to . In a support column of cohesion less particles such as dry sand encased in a flexible membrane such as butyl rubber or the like is compressed and made more rigid by the use of pressure equally impressed over its length. is a top view of the thin walled tube showing the opposing force inside the thin walled tube the relationship to tensile force T given by 2 2 where 

Eqn. 2 may be used to design appropriately sized systems based on the basic theory of the Mohr Coulomb relation of Eqn. 1 and pre specified loads expected. For example a designer can specify the thickness t and diameter d of a thin wall tube based on how much hydrostatic pressure will need to be applied to support a pre specified axial load .

An alternative depiction of the effect of stiffening of cohesion less particles is shown in a stress strain curve indicating how a low applied hydrostatic pressure exhibits a significantly lower load than a higher applied hydrostatic pressure at the same slope of the failure envelope .

Refer to a test configuration for the ITSE. The filled tube comprises an outer membrane of abrasion resistant material such as woven Kevlar or the like an inner bladder of flexible material such as urethane butyl rubber or the like and a fill of cohesion less particles such as dry sand of medium density. A suitable fluid such as air is employed to inflate the inner bladder and provide the necessary pressure to stiffen the particles into a rigid mass impressed against both the bladder and the outer membrane . is a loading layout of the configuration of the configuration emplaced upon supports prior to impressing a load . Testing demonstrated the viability of the ITSE concept. The filled tubes for the test were about 10.2 cm four inches in diameter and about 61 cm two feet in length. They had a compliant internal urethane bladder and an external membrane of polyester bias braid the same material as the air arch that supported an SUV. The internal bladder was inflated to 100 psi providing axial loading to full mobilization of the shear strength of the particulates dry sand or of either membrane. A 3 point bending test was conducted to full mobilization of the shear strength of the soil or of either the internal bladder or external membrane.

Test results are shown in the graphs of . shows results for two test units in compression showing less than about 3.8 cm 1.5 in. extension for a load in excess of 4 000 lbs and less than about 4.4 cm 1.75 in. extension for a load of about 5 400 lbs making the unit able to carry a load about 12 times greater than a tube filled only with dry sand. shows a linear deflection curve of flexural force psi vs. deflection in. topping near 1000 psi at a deflection of only about 5.1 cm two inches .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 699 Air Beam Construction Using Differential Pressure Chambers to Bailey describes a closed tubular cylindrical shell of air impermeable fabric having fixed within the shell an I beam envelope comprising flexible air impermeable walls sealed to the interior of the shell. The I beam envelope extends the length of the shell and defines air chambers in communication with an inflation valve. Compressible material is dispersed throughout the interior of the I beam envelope. When subjected to compressive forces by pressurization of the air chambers the material becomes rigid thus able to support increased loading albeit horizontal in the normal orientation of I beams. The filled envelope is either vented to atmosphere or connected to a vacuum source.

The above demonstrates the feasibility of hydrostatically enabled structure elements but does not address many of the practical considerations for use of the technology. One such consideration is use of these structure elements in addressing damages to existing structure to mitigate further catastrophic deterioration injury or loss of life. Select embodiments of the present invention address this and other practical applications.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide a transportable readily deployed system for providing temporary support to damaged structure for assuring safe access to partially collapsed structure and for stabilizing existing structure in anticipation of catastrophic failure.

Upon deployment select embodiments of the present invention comprise one or more pressurized compartments these pressurized compartments immediately adjacent one or more sections containing cohesion less particles that upon pressurizing the compartments become a rigid mass capable of supporting loads significantly greater than when the compartments are not pressurized.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a structural element comprising one or more first components comprising a top a bottom one or more elastic tubes of a first type sealed to the top and bottom and one or more valves affixed to a tube of a first type to permit pressurization thereof an elastic tube of a second type sealed to the top and bottom and incorporating one or more openings for filling the tube the tube being co extensive with and adjacent to the one or more tubes of a first type the tube of a second type establishing one or more chambers of a first type between the one or more first components and the elastic tube of a second type while also establishing a chamber of a second type the external dimensions of which chamber of a second type are defined by the internal perimeter of a tube of a second type and the top and bottom one or more ports for access both near the top and near the bottom of the tube of a second type and cohesion less particles such that upon pressurizing the at least one chamber of a first type and filling the chamber of a second type with the cohesion less particles the structural element becomes a rigid mass capable of supporting loads significantly greater than when the one or more chambers of a first type are not pressurized.

In select embodiments of the present invention the one or more chambers of a first type further comprise first and second chambers of a first type the first chamber of a first type external to the chamber of a second type and the second chamber of a first type centered within the chamber of a second type concentric and co extensive with the long axis of the chamber of a second type the boundary of the second chamber of a first type defined by a third elastic tube sealed to the top and bottom.

In select embodiments of the present invention the first and second chambers of a first type are in fluid communication with each other.

In select embodiments of the present invention the cohesion less particles comprise man made material. In select embodiments of the present invention the cohesion less particles comprise dry sand.

In select embodiments of the present invention the top comprises a cylinder of height much less than its diameter the cylinder incorporating passages for transferring the cohesion less particles. In select embodiments of the present invention the cylindrical top is rigid.

In select embodiments of the present invention the bottom comprises a cylinder of height much less than its diameter the cylinder incorporating passages for transferring the cohesion less particles. In select embodiments of the present invention the bottom cylinder is rigid.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a system facilitating rapid deployment of a structural element comprising one or more first components comprising a top a bottom one or more elastic tubes of a first type sealed to the top and bottom and one or more valves affixed to each tube of a first type to permit pressurization thereof an elastic tube of a second type sealed to the top and bottom and incorporating one or more openings for filling the tube of a second type co extensive with and adjacent to the one or more tubes of a first type the tube of a second type establishing one or more chambers of a first type between the one or more first components and the tube of a second type and establishing a chamber of a second type the external dimensions of which chamber of a second type are defined by the internal perimeter of the tube of a second type and the top and bottom one or more ports for access to the tube of a second type cohesion less particles one or more sources for pressurizing the one or more tubes of a first type and one or more sources for providing the cohesion less particles to the chamber of a second type such that upon pressurizing the one or more chambers of a first type and filling the chamber of a second type with the cohesion less particles the structural element becomes a rigid mass capable of supporting loads significantly greater than when the one or more chambers of a first type are not pressurized.

In select embodiments of the present invention the one or more sources for providing the cohesion less particles further comprise a vessel a conduit from the vessel and a pump affixed to the conduit such that the conduit originates near the bottom of the vessel and terminates near the top of the chamber of a second type when filling the chamber of a second type and the conduit originates near the top of the vessel and terminates near the bottom of the chamber of a second type when emptying the chamber of a second type.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s source for pressurizing comprises one or more air compressors.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s one or more chambers of a first type further comprise first and second chambers of a first type the first chamber of a first type external to the chamber of a second type and the second chamber of a first type centered within the chamber of a second type concentric and co extensive with the long axis of the chamber of a second type the boundary of the second chamber of a first type defined by a third elastic tube sealed to the top and bottom.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s first and second chambers of a first type are in fluid communication with each other.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s cohesion less particles comprise man made material.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s cohesion less particles comprise dry sand.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s top comprises a cylinder of height much less than diameter the cylinder incorporating passages for transferring the cohesion less particles. In select embodiments of the present invention in the system s cylindrical top is rigid.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system s bottom comprises a cylinder of height much less than diameter the cylinder incorporating passages for transferring the cohesion less particles. In select embodiments of the present invention the system s cylindrical bottom is rigid.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a method for rapidly deploying a structural support comprising providing a structural element incorporating one or more first components comprising a top a bottom one or more elastic tubes of a first type sealed to the top and bottom and one or more valves incorporated in the tube of a first type to permit pressurization thereof an elastic tube of a second type sealed to the top and bottom and incorporating one or more openings for filling the tube of a second type the tube co extensive with and adjacent to the one or more tubes of a first type the tube of a second type establishing one or more chambers of a first type between the one first component and the tube of a second type and establishing a chamber of a second type the external dimensions of which chamber of a second type are defined by the internal perimeter of the tube of a second type and the top and bottom one or more ports for access to the tube of a second type cohesion less particles one or more sources for pressurizing the one or more tubes of a first type and one or more sources for providing the cohesion less particles to the chamber of a second type positioning the structural element where support to a structure is required providing a compressor providing a source of cohesion less particles providing a transfer mechanism for transferring the cohesion less particles pressurizing the one or more chambers of a first type to extend the structural element to contact the structure requiring support and transferring the cohesion less particles to the chamber of a second type such that the structural element becomes a rigid mass capable of supporting the structure at the point of contact with the structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method further comprises reversing the method to transfer the cohesion less particles back to the source and to deflate the tubes of a first type upon not requiring the employment of the structural element for support of the structure.

Refer to . Select embodiments of the present invention comprise a system that comprises a top and bottom support for a contained flexible compressible structure comprising an outer abrasion resistant skin attached to both the top and bottom supports that may include folds that accordion to allow employment along a longitudinal axis and reduction in size along the same axis for storage and transport. The skin may be deployed by inflating a first internal cylindrical bladder attached to the top and bottom supports and adjacent the inside surface of the skin . The first internal cylindrical bladder is suitable for providing a tensile force via fluid pressure that inflates the bladder against both the skin and a second internal bladder the second bladder attached to both the top and bottom supports the second bladder wholly internal to the first bladder . The second internal bladder may be deployed along the longitudinal axis via inflation of the first bladder . Upon deployment of the system the first bladder is inflated via a compressor B and hose B attached to a valve G connected to a port C at the bottom of the first bladder to extend the system to a pre specified working length along its longitudinal axis. Upon extension of the system to its working length a pump A such as a centrifugal pump pumps cohesion less particles e.g. dry sand or manmade particles of pre specified characteristics such as density diameter and the like from a vessel via a second hose A and a second valve D into a port H at the top of the second bladder . Once the second bladder is filled to a pre specified height typically the working length of the system the first bladder is pressurized to a pre specified pressure to establish a pre specified tension on both the skin and the inner bladder . In select embodiments of the present invention the pre specified pressure is selected to support an expected load along the longitudinal axis of the system . In select embodiments of the present invention the load is applied directly along the longitudinal axis at the top of the system when deployed. Thus e.g. the system may be deployed between the flooring supports and ceiling joists of a structure to support a ceiling that is anticipated to collapse.

Refer to depicting the part A of the system of that is in its stored or transported configuration. The hoses A B are simply disconnected after the cohesion less particles are evacuated from the bladder by reversing the pump A and the pressurizing bladder is evacuated by reversing the compressor B permitting the skin to be accordioned down to a suitable size for transport and storage.

Refer to illustrating an alternative system to that of . The system will fold for shipping in much the same manner as that of the system i.e. it will take approximately the same configuration as that of the storage transporting configuration A. The system contains an extra internal bladder filled from a port F at the bottom of the bladder that both reduces the amount of cohesion less particles required and provides a back up to the first pressurizing bladder should the external skin be punctured together with the pressurizing bladder . The extra internal bladder may be filled via the compressor and hose B of the system requiring only another valve J to insure proper filling and maintenance of pressure. Further in addition to the advantage of using less particles the extra internal bladder will allow the pressure to be applied to the hollow column of particles from two sides of the rigidized column of particles allowing a quicker and possibly more uniform packing of the particles . This would be particularly advantageous in situations in which the system needs to be deployed quickly. As noted above the extra protection of the extra internal bladder afforded by the packed particles surrounding it provides a measure of security not available with having only the first internal bladder of the system . Further the fluid used in the bladder need not be air but could be an inert fluid e.g. nitrogen or even water in rare cases where flammables dictate the need for extra caution when using hoses B that may be susceptible to rupture or puncture due to hostile actions.

Refer to depicting the reversal of the process shown in . The system for de pressurizing and transferring the cohesion less material as shown by arrows back to a source vessel merely reverses the direction of the pump A connected via a passage way to the base of the chamber to allow the material to be pumped through the conduit A back to a source vessel .

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for use in supporting damaged structures it may be used for any type of portable structure where quick installation is desired. Thus select embodiments of the present invention may be useful in such diverse applications as mining rescue temporary construction of housing outdoor concerts military deployment temporary recreational activities and the like. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

