---

title: Location-based audio service
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide a location-based audio service. According to one embodiment, a request for a desired audio stream having an inactive segment is received from a user operating a mobile device. Furthermore, geographic data may be monitored while the audio stream is being rendered on the mobile device. The location-based audio service is configured to determine relevant location-based information based on the geographic data, and then transmit the relevant information to the mobile device during the inactive segment of the desired audio stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08428621&OS=08428621&RS=08428621
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08428621
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
The emergence and popularity of mobile computing has made various types of portable electronic devices a staple in today s marketplace. In addition to mobile networking many mobile devices are now equipped with the technological capabilities for enabling rich location based services. For example global positioning and compass sensors are often included in such devices for communicating the geographic location and the facing direction of the user respectively. Furthermore modern high speed wireless networks are capable of delivering rich media in real time. Due to the copious amount of information available on the interne however only a fraction of the available information can be presented to the user at any given time.

Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate companies may refer to a component by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. In the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising and e.g. are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to . . . . The term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect or direct connection. Thus if a first component couples to a second component that connection may be through a direct electrical connection or through an indirect electrical connection via other components and connections such as an optical electrical connection or wireless electrical connection. Furthermore the term system refers to a collection of two or more hardware and or software components and may be used to refer to an electronic device or devices or a sub system thereof.

The following discussion is directed to various embodiments. Although one or more of these embodiments may be preferred the embodiments disclosed should not be interpreted or otherwise used as limiting the scope of the disclosure including the claims. In addition one skilled in the art will understand that the following description has broad application and the discussion of any embodiment is meant only to be exemplary of that embodiment and not intended to intimate that the scope of the disclosure including the claims is limited to that embodiment.

One solution to the aforementioned problem is to overlay information from the interne on a user s view of the physical world or augmented reality. This method involves a user waving the mobile device around the horizon and looking so as to monitor the physical world though the lens of the mobile device s built in camera. However such an experience is often uncomfortable for the user both physically and socially after a significant period of time. Other applications include proving a heads up display of the world so that as the user points their phone at a location or object in physical space the application overlays information onto the screen related to target location or object. Like the former method this approach will also result in the user s arms and upper body becoming fatigued after extended use while also portraying a look of senselessness to onlookers.

Embodiments of the present invention aim to solve the aforementioned problems by delivering a practical and personal augmented reality experience that utilizes audio as a primary mode of interaction. For example the location based audio service in accordance with one embodiment receives a service request from a subscribing user operating a mobile device. The system associated with the Service Provider of the location based audio service hereinafter Service Provider System monitors geographic data while the audio stream is being rendered on the mobile device. Relevant location based information is then determined based on the geographic data and subscriber profile information and in turn transmitted to the mobile device during the inactive segment of the desired audio stream.

Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide several advantages over conventional methods. For example since users of mobile device are accustomed to listening to audio while walking or driving audible delivery of location based information enables users to safely continue these tasks without interruption. Furthermore personalization and subtle delivery of location based data ensures that the user is not continually inundated with sizable amounts of irrelevant and elaborate information.

Referring now in more detail to the drawings in which like numerals identify corresponding parts throughout the views is a simplified block diagram of a system implementing the location based audio service according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown here the location based audio system includes mobile devices and a Service Provider System and external content and . Mobile devices and represent a portable electronic device having network connectivity such as a smartphone a notebook computer or similar device. The Service Provider System includes data processing components and modules configured to retrieve and transmit desired location based information. According to one embodiment the external content represents websites and network data utilized by the service provider system for generating the relevant location based information for a particular user.

Service Provider System includes multiple functional components including mobile user interface web interface module information aggregation and filtering component user content and alerts preferences module and subscriber database . According to one embodiment the mobile user interface represents an application programming interface for allowing the user to interact with service provider system via mobile device . Similarly web interface module represents an application programming interface for allowing the user to interact with the service provider system via mobile device for example. In particular the mobile user interface and web interface module allow the user to make configuration changes and see a visual representation of information when needed. The subscriber database is configured to store profile information associated with each user that subscribers with the Service Provider System . Such profile information may include a unique identifier associated with an individual user preferred content including desired musical entertainment restaurants and shopping establishments for example in addition to notification preferences which may indicate the timing and amount of information the user would like to receive from the Service Provider System . Furthermore the user content and alert preferences module is configured to process a user request submitted via the mobile user interface or the web interface module and query the subscriber database for the preferred content and notification preferences associated with unique identifier of the requesting subscriber operating the mobile device or .

Information aggregation and filtering processing component may periodically sense the location compass heading and speed of the user operating the mobile device or and accordingly send a request to the location based content server . More particularly the information aggregation and filtering component is configured to apply filtering algorithms to nearby location based content server news feed server and social network server based on the preferred user content and notification preferences. For example the information aggregation and filtering component may apply filtering algorithms to select the most interesting and relevant information from data including 1 local restaurant and shopping data returned from the location based content server 2 local news weather advertisement or traffic information returned from the news feed server or 3 the stream of social communication content associated with social networking websites like Facebook www.facebook.com or Twitter www.twitter.com from the social network server . Still further the information aggregation and filtering component is also configured to compile the relevant data and return the personalized information to the mobile user interface or web interface module as an audio stream of information.

Next in step the Service Provide System determines if an inactive segment such as a gap or break in audio has occurred during playback of the desired audio stream. Once the inactive segment of the desired audio stream is reached the Service Provider System then determines in step whether there exists relevant location based information for the subscriber based on the geographic data stored subscriber profile information and the information retrieved from the location based content server news feed server and social network server. If no relevant location based information is determined the system may immediately transition to the next segment in the audio stream. However if relevant location based information is found by the Service Provider System then in step the relevant location based information is transmitted to the mobile device for playback during the inactive segment of the audio stream. Alternatively the Service Provider System may discover relevant location based information during playback of the desired audio stream and queue all the complied relevant information for playback during the next inactive segment. In yet another embodiment the Service Provider System may package a desired audio stream and fill in known inactive segments of the audio stream with relevant location based information for playback at the conclusion of the current audio stream or file.

For example as a user walks down the street listening to a desired podcast or musical entertainment on headphones coupled to the mobile device the location based audio service in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may either inform the user of the existence of or simply present relevant location based information or data such as local news events that occurred on the current street or updates from associated social media websites. That is the location based audio service of the present embodiments is designed to be opportunistic such that the user is not required to actively search for location based information but rather to be informed of relevant content automatically while listening to entertaining audio content.

In step the Service Provider System receives a manual request from the user for receiving additional details concerning the audible notification and associated location based information. The manual request may be a button on the headset or mobile device or an audible command for example. Thereafter in step relevant location based information is determined based on the user s current location information in addition to the last known or requested location based information. According to one embodiment playback of the desired audio stream on the mobile device is interrupted or paused by the Service Provider System in step and the relevant location based information is transmitted to the mobile device for immediate playback in step . Once the relevant location based information is delivered and played back on the mobile device in its entirety the Service Provider System may resume playback of the desired audio stream.

An exemplary operating environment of the location based audio service of the present embodiment may involve a user visiting the website of the Service Provide System in order to subscribe to services by creating a user account and configuring their preferred content. According to one embodiment the user may select channels of location based content that is of interest e.g. local news restaurants and movies podcasts and other desired audio content in addition to linking their active Facebook and Twitter accounts to the Service Provider System. At any time thereafter the user may submit a request for services by opening a location based audio service application associated with the Service Provider and then logging on to the Service Provider System. As the user walks down a street listening to their favorite podcast they may get within a predetermined distance of a restaurant associated with their preferred content. The Service Provider System may then send a discreet audible tone to the mobile device so as to indicate that there is a location of interest nearby. Subsequently the user may submit a manual request via a button on the headset or an audible command for example in order to learn more details about the nearby location of interest. More specifically upon receiving the manual request for further details the location based audio service may submit a voice prompt as follows The restaurant ahead on the right Rick s Cafe is a top recommended Italian restaurant for Palo Alto given a stored subscriber preference for Italian cuisine . However the user may also choose to continue walking and listening without receiving details concerning the point of interest. At the next street corner the user may receive an audible alert and elect to listen to details concerning a news item about a robbery that occurred at the bank across the street the day before. Further down the street the user may be read a new message from Facebook from a close friend i.e. preferred content or that another friend has checked into a nearby coffee shop on a location base social network such as Foursquare foursquare.com .

For example a user in transit from Palo Alto Calif. to Oakland Calif. may start the location based audio service application and enter a specific destination address. The system calculates the travel path using the received travel information and based on the user s profile preferences network and current geographic location the Service Provider System creates an audio stream of relevant and prioritized content that is most likely to be of interest to the user in the time allotted. Here the system may compile a stream of content that is about half an hour long and relevant to different points along the path the user is traveling for example. For instance the user may receive audible information concerning traffic accidents on three stretches of highway along the travel path or that a friend has checked into a gym across the street from the destination via Foursquare. 

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a streaming audio service for mobile users that delivers a mix location based information intelligently filtered social media updates and personalized audio entertainment. Furthermore many advantages are afforded by embodiments of the present invention. For example a subscribing user can go about their everyday business walking driving etc and still be connected to location specific information and entertainment from the internet without having to hold their devices in the air to survey the surrounding area as in conventional methods. Furthermore as an audio based system the delivery of relevant location based information requires an insignificant amount of the user s time. For example the user does not need to view the mobile device s small sized display screen for receiving such information. That is delivery of relevant location based information may occur instantly without the user dedicating great attention or having a direct line of sight to the visual area of the mobile device.

Furthermore while the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example although exemplary embodiments depict a smartphone and notebook computer as the mobile device the invention is not limited thereto. For example the mobile device may be a netbook a tablet personal computer standard cell phone or any other portable electronic device configured with network connectivity.

Furthermore the Service Provider System may include additional processing components modules or databases other than those discussed above and depicted in the figures. Similarly external content that is to be filtered by the information aggregation and filtering component described above may derive from any data source providing content over the internet such a web feed weblog or podcaster. In addition the news feed may contain real time as well as historical information pertaining to a particular location venue or event. Thus although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

