---

title: Automated user authentication identification for customized converged services
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for providing automated user authentication utilizing available authentication data associated with a computing device. By utilizing a mobile identification number verified during an authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) process performed when a mobile computing device is powered on, access to a privileged content or service may be granted, allowing a user to bypass manual entry of user authentication information (user ID and password). Utilizing a verified mobile identification number, service features and functionalities may be communicated between billing systems of a service provider, which may provide for further converged, customized services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650628&OS=08650628&RS=08650628
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08650628
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
Through interconnected distributed computing networks a vast array of information resources and services may be provided through various network mediums and endpoint devices to a multitude of users. Distributed computing networks such as the Internet may be accessed almost anywhere by numerous means such as through mobile computing devices. Mobile computing devices e.g. mobile phones PDAs smartphones etc. may allow a user to connect to the Internet from anywhere there is a wireless network that supports the device s technology.

In today s electronic and mobile environment it is common for a user to utilize a mobile computing device to access remote services and information resources connected to a distributed computing network. Oftentimes user authentication may be required prior to granting access to a privileged content or service. Authentication typically entails entering a user identification user ID and password in an effort to verify a user s identity. As can be appreciated user authentication via a mobile computing device can be cumbersome due to a variety of factors. It is not uncommon for a user to access various Web based accounts and thus have multiple user IDs and passwords. This can be difficult for a user to keep track of. In addition typically each time a user wants to access a privileged content or service he she may be required to enter his her user ID and password. Due to such factors as small buttons touch screen interfaces key configurations etc. data entry on a mobile computing device can be both inaccurate and inefficient.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for providing automated user authentication utilizing available authentication data associated with a computing device. By utilizing a mobile identification number verified during an authentication authorization and accounting AAA process performed when a mobile computing device is powered on access to a privileged content or service may be granted allowing a user to bypass manual entry of user authentication information user ID and password . Utilizing a verified mobile identification number service features and functionalities may be communicated between billing systems of a service provider which may provide for further converged customized services.

With changing consumer lifestyles and technology convergence some service providers are providing converged services. For example a service provider may offer customers one or more services such as fixed voice broadband cable CATV satellite and or mobile telephone services. Converged wireless applications may be provided by a service provider to access an associated account from a mobile computing device. For example if a user subscribes to cable television service the user may utilize his her mobile phone to access his her account and browse television TV listings associated with his her account.

As mentioned previously a user may have multiple services provided by a service provider. According to embodiments in cases where a subscriber has a mobile telephone service associated with his her account authentication information associated with a mobile computing device number may be utilized as a user identity for an application instead of a user ID and password. When a user turns on a mobile computing device an authentication process with a wireless network is performed. During an authentication process a mobile identification number associated with the mobile computing device may be verified with a service provider database to ensure such information as whether the phone number is a legitimate telephone number that belongs to the specified service provider network services which may be subscribed to e.g. SMS web browsing etc. restrictions which may be placed on the device e.g. parental controls etc. Embodiments of the present invention allow for a mobile identification number verified during an authentication process to be utilized by an application as user authentication identification information.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing automated user authentication identification. By utilizing already validated authentication data an application may be accessed without further manual data entry of authentication information by a user. When a user powers up a mobile computing device such as a mobile phone the device may perform an authentication with an associated wireless network. During the authentication process a mobile identification number may be verified against a service provider s database. Subsequently when a functionality is selected by a user e.g. opening an application which may require user identification authentication authentication data already validated during the authentication process may be utilized as a user identity. By taking advantage of already validated authentication data data entry by a user which can be a very cumbersome process on a mobile device may be minimized.

According to embodiments validated authentication data e.g. a mobile identification number may be utilized to look up features and functionalities associated with other services offered by a service provider. The search for other service features and functionalities may involve separate billing systems and may require a communication between the separate billing systems. By allowing communication between and an integration of billing systems a user identity may be utilized to provide further converged customized services to a user.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications etc. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems as is further described below with respect to .

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Having described elements of a mobile computing architecture that may serve as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the present invention is a flow diagram of a method for providing automated user authentication identification. The method starts at OPERATION and proceeds to OPERATION where a mobile computing device is powered on. As should be appreciated there are numerous makes and models of mobile computing devices and each may have a unique way in which it may be powered on. According to embodiments powering on a mobile computing device may include powering on the device from a powered off status or restarting the device. When a mobile computing device is powered on it may be connected with a wireless provider through transmission of signals through an antenna.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where the powered on mobile computing device may be authenticated with a wireless network. According to embodiments when a mobile computing device is authenticated an AAA protocol may be performed. AM commonly stands for authentication authorization and accounting. Authentication may refer to a process where a confirmation is made that a user is valid via a presentation of appropriate credentials e.g. mobile identification number . That is when a mobile computing device is powered on authentication data associated with the mobile computing device may be compared with user associated data stored in a service provider s database. A mobile identification number i.e. phone number of a mobile computing device may be verified with a service provider s database to make sure that the number is a legitimate phone number and belongs within the specified service provider s network. According to embodiments if a phone number is verified as legitimate access to a service provider s network may be granted. Alternatively if an authentication fails to verify access to a service provider s network may be denied.

Authorization may refer to a process where based on a user s authentication and a current system state specific types of services may be granted or rejected. That is rights and services for which a user may be allowed to utilize or access may be defined. For example if a user subscribes to services such as SMS text messaging and parental controls access privileges to those services may be enabled.

Accounting may refer to a process where a consumption of network resources by a user may be tracked. Accounting information may be processed in real time or saved and delivered at a later time. When a user utilizes a service information gathered during the accounting process may include but is not limited to an identity of the user a nature of the service delivered when the service began when the service ended an amount of data usage resource consumption etc.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where an application requiring user authentication is selected. As mentioned above in a converged services environment a user of the mobile computing device may use the mobile computing device to access one or more software applications features functionalities or services from one or more disparate service systems via a wireless network to the one or more disparate service systems. For example the user may have subscribed to a feature with his her cable television services system CATV provider to allow the user to access CATV services via a mobile computing device . Components and features of a CATV are described below with respect to . For example consider that a user may wish to access a web service resource of his her CATV provider such as a Remote Digital Video Recorder DVR Scheduler Application with which the user may remotely schedule the recording of one or more television programs available through his her CATV provider. A Remote DVR Scheduler Application may be linked to or programmed in a user s CATV set top box see for allowing the user to remotely view TV listings associated with his her STB and for allowing the user to subsequently schedule a recording of programming if desired. As should be appreciated each individual user may view different TV listings when utilizing a Remote DVR Scheduler Application since it is associated with an individual s STB CATV account. When an application such as a Remote DVR Scheduler Application is associated with privileged data such as a service resource account user authentication may be required. As should be appreciated access of a Remote DVR Scheduler Application via the automated authentication methods and systems described herein is for purposes of example only and is not limiting of the vast numbers and types of applications and services that a user may access via the mobile computing device as described herein.

Through utilization of embodiments of the present invention manual entry of authentication information may be bypassed. At OPERATION authentication data associated with the mobile computing device may be discovered and sent to a service provider server for comparison with user associated data stored in a service provider s database. A mobile identification number may reside in and be requested from the operating system of the mobile computing device. A mobile identification number e.g. phone number of a mobile computing device may be verified with a service provider s database to make sure that the number is a legitimate phone number and belongs within the specified service provider s network. According to embodiments a validated mobile identification number may be utilized as a user identity instead of a user ID and password.

The method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where a determination is made as to whether the discovered and sent mobile identification number is a valid number. That is the sent mobile identification number may be compared with user associated data stored in a service provider s database. Subsequently a determination may be made as to whether the mobile identification number belongs to the service provider and is associated with existing account.

If it is determined that the mobile identification number is valid and belongs to the service provider the method proceeds to OPERATION where a communication between billing systems may occur and wherein service codes may be obtained. Service codes may reveal such information as an account number associated with the mobile identification number and to what services a user associated with the account may subscribe. For example a service code may reveal that a user subscribes to DVR service. According to embodiments service codes may be utilized to allow a user to remotely access those services to which he she subscribes.

According to embodiments a service provider may have separate billing systems for various offered services. For example a service provider may provide CATV services broadband mobile telephone services and or fixed line telephone services. Each service may have its own separate billing system or different combinations of services may utilize common billing systems. Embodiments of the present invention allow for separate billing systems to integrate so that using only a mobile identification number an application may look up other non wireless service features and functionalities. By communicating service features and functionalities across separate systems a user may be provided with further converged customized services.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where depending on the service codes obtained from the service provider database services may be provided to the user. For example if a service code reveals that a user subscribes to DVR service the application may allow for the user to remotely access features associated with his her DVR service. After OPERATION or if a determination is made at DECISION OPERATION that the mobile identification number is not valid the method ends at OPERATION .

Having described a method for providing automated user authentication identification according to embodiments of the present invention B and C are illustrations of example screenshots of an example application accessed on a mobile computing device without applying embodiments of the present invention. The content illustrated in B and C follow from the example Remote DVR Scheduler Application described above but as should be appreciated the content illustrated in B and C is for purposes of example only and is not limiting of other types of services features or content that may be accessed via the mobile computing device . Referring now to a user may open an application requiring user authentication identification data. In this example a user may be requested to enter a phone number and PIN in order to log into the example remote application. Manual entry of user authentication information via a user interface such as the example interface shown in may be cumbersome due to a variety of factors such as small button sizes touch screen interfaces key configurations etc. Once a user manually enters his her authentication information are illustrations of example user interfaces associated with an example accessed remote application.

Once account information is obtained a user may gain access to services associated with an application requiring user authentication information. are illustrations of example user interfaces of an accessed application. An accessed application may present a user with a customized service such as customized TV Listings as shown in . Customized TV Listings may be based on a channel lineup for a household to which the mobile identification number belongs. According to embodiments features and functionalities of a service may be obtained using a user identity associated with a separate service provided by the same service provider.

As described above a user of the mobile computing device operating in a converged services environment may utilize the mobile computing device to access one or more applications features or services via one or more disparate and or remote systems via a wireless network through with the device operates. When the user attempts access to such systems authentication may be required to ensure the user is authorized to access the desired systems. As mentioned above by way of example the mobile computing device may allow the user to access service offerings available via his her cable television services system for example a Remote DVR Scheduler Application. With reference to a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that may serve as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the invention is described.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side backend head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism of a STB receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example formatting type and other suitable formatting languages or types may be utilized. As also should be appreciated by those skilled in the art although some embodiments described in this specification are oriented to middleware installed and executed on a STB alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space may operate across a variety of frequency ranges for example at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to an embodiment of the present invention digital video recording functionality may be located remotely on the head end server side and called upon by a client set top box .

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on products and services subscribed to by a customer from her cable services provider. For example in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the customer information database may contain data to allow a determination as to whether a particular product or service is already provisioned at a customer service address or whether a work order is pending for a particular product or service provisioning at the customer service address. The customer information database may also include information that allows for a determination as to whether prerequisites for provisioning a requested product of service are met by a requesting customer. For example if a customer requests electronic mail services and high speed Internet access is a prerequisite for electronic mail services the customer information database may be queried to determine whether the required Internet access is provisioned at the requesting customer location or address.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

According to embodiments of the present invention a mobile computing device may access the CATV system via an access point base station which allows a mobile computing device to connect to any number of wireless wireline PSTN CATV based communications systems and the like. Access to a CATV system may allow for a user to access and utilize one or more applications features or services available to the user via the CATV system. As should be appreciated a mobile computing device may also connect to a distributed computing network via a wireless telecommunications network. Following from the example used herein a Remote DVR Scheduler Application may be resident on the mobile computing device or other computing device as a client application or the Remote DVR Scheduler Application may be resident at the Headend . The mobile computing device may gain access to the desired application in a variety of suitable methods. According to one method the mobile computing device may access the CATV via the IP network to the Web Services System and Data Services platform . According to one embodiment the authentication system may be utilized in association with the automated user authentication identification methods and systems described herein to allow the user access to desired applications features and services of the example CATV without cumbersome entry of authentication information discussed above. According to another embodiment the mobile computing device may be allowed direct access to the desired application via the authentication identification methods and systems described herein without passing through the authentication system .

Embodiments of the present invention for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention. Although embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to particular standards and protocols the present invention is not limited to such standards and protocols.

While the specification includes examples the invention s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

