---

title: Large-scale lateral nanowire arrays nanogenerators
abstract: In a method of making a generating device, a plurality of spaced apart elongated seed members are deposited onto a surface of a flexible non-conductive substrate. An elongated conductive layer is applied to a top surface and a first side of each seed member, thereby leaving an exposed second side opposite the first side. A plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures is grown laterally from the second side of each seed layer. A second conductive material is deposited onto the substrate adjacent each elongated first conductive layer so as to be coupled the distal end of each of the plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures. The second conductive material is selected so as to form a Schottky barrier between the second conductive material and the distal end of each of the plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures and so as to form an electrical contact with the first conductive layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08623451&OS=08623451&RS=08623451
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08623451
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101110
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 259 806 filed Nov. 10 2009 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 348 909 filed May 27 2010 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 362 066 filed Jul. 7 2010 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy and under contract No. DMI 0403671 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electrical generators and more specifically to electrical generators employing piezoelectric nanostructures.

As an abundant energy in our daily life mechanical energy ranges from sonic waves mechanical vibration and impacts air flow e.g. wind friction hydraulic and ocean waves which are available around the clock. Harvesting mechanical energy and converting it into electrical energy is becoming an increasingly important alternative to conventional electrical generation methods.

Piezoelectric zinc oxide ZnO nanowires nanowires have been used for harvesting small scale mechanical energy created by a gentle physical motion. Using a single ZnO nanowire an alternating current AC generator has been demonstrated based on cyclic stretching and releasing of a piezoelectric fine wire.

The design of a single nanowire based AC NG uses a piezoelectric wire that is firmly contacted at its two ends with metal electrodes laterally bonded and packaged on a flexible substrate the bending of which can be driven by mechanical agitation present in our living environment. The single wire generator demonstrates a robust approach for harvesting low frequency energy generated by in vitro human or animal motion. However the output power of a single nanowire based nanogenerator NG may be limited. In certain practical applications it is essential to scale up the design of the AC NGs so as to integrate the contributions made by millions of nanowires in order to enhance the output power.

Most current systems are not sufficiently scalable to enable them to generate power for many applications.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of making a generating device in which a plurality of spaced apart elongated seed members are deposited onto a first surface of a flexible non conductive substrate. An elongated first conductive layer is applied to a top surface and a first side of each seed member thereby leaving an exposed second side opposite the first side. A plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures each having a distal end are grown laterally from the second side of each seed layer. A second conductive material is deposited onto the substrate adjacent each elongated first conductive layer so as to be coupled the distal end of each of the plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures. The second conductive material is selected so as to form a Schottky barrier between the second conductive material and the distal end of each of the plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures and so as to form an electrical contact with the first conductive layer.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a nanogenerator in which a plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires is grown from a first substrate. A second substrate is drawn across the plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires with sufficient force so that a set of nanowires of the plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires is transferred onto the second substrate along a preselected direction. A plurality of spaced apart conductive stripes is deposited onto the substrate and portions of the set of nanowires so that the conductive stripes are oriented transversely to the preselected direction.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a generator in which a first electrode layer is deposited onto a substrate. At least a first insulator layer is deposited onto the first electrode layer. At least a first plurality of elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures is placed onto the first insulator layer so that the piezoelectric nanostructures are oriented so as to have different lateral axes and so as to have a substantially common vertical axis. At least a second insulator layer is deposited onto the first plurality of elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures. A second electrode layer is deposited above the second insulator layer.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

The embodiments disclosed herein combine a rational chemical growth of nanowires nanowires with nanofabrication for building multiple lateral nanowire arrays integrated into nano generators NGs for large scale and high output energy harvesting. The fabrication uses a flexible and stretchable polymer as substrate and the processing temperatures at the substrate is lower than 100 C. In one embodiment a voltage output of 1.26 V has been demonstrated which will allow these embodiments to be employed in self powered nanosystems.

The following U.S. Patent Applications disclose methods of generating zinc oxide piezoelectric nanostructures of the types disclosed below and are hereby incorporated by reference Ser. No. 10 726 016 filed on Dec. 2 2003 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 11 608 865 filed on Dec. 11 2006 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 11 760 002 filed on Jun. 8 2007 by Wang et al. Ser. No. 12 209 310 filed on Sep. 12 2008 by Wang et al. and Ser. No. 12 413 470 filed on Mar. 27 2009 by Wang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 095 issued on Jul. 1 2003 to Wang et al. also discloses methods of generating piezoelectric nanostructures and is hereby incorporated by reference.

As shown in one embodiment of a generating device includes a flexible non conductive substrate which in one embodiment is a polymer film such as poly 4 4 oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide commercially referred to as Kapton onto which elongated seed members such as stripes of zinc oxide have been deposited. The top and one side of the seed members are coated with a first conductive material such as chromium leaving one side of each seed member exposed. A plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures such as zinc oxide nanowires is grown from the exposed side of the seed members . A second conductive material such as gold is deposited onto the substrate a portion of the first conductive material and the distal ends of the piezoelectric nanostructures . The second conductive material forms a Schottky barrier between the second conductive material and the distal ends of the plurality of elongated piezoelectric nanostructures . An electrical contact is formed between the first conductive layer and the second conductive material .

The generating device employs the piezoelectric effect with the presence of a Schottky contact at least at one end electrode. Since the diameter of the nanowire is much smaller than the thickness of the substrate film the nanowire is subjected essentially to a pure tensile strain when the substrate is stretched and a piezoelectric potential drop is created along the nanowire with the positive c axis of the crystal orientation pointing toward a higher piezopotential side. A Schottky barrier formed at least at one end contact of the nanowire serves as a gate that prevents the flow of electrons across the nanowire metal interface so that the electrons are accumulated adjacent to the contact. This is the charging process. When the substrate is released from straining the strain in the nanowire is released and the corresponding piezopotential disappears as well. The accumulated electrons will back flow through the external load. This is the charge releasing process. The piezopotential in the nanowire serves as a charging pump that drives the back and forth flows of the electrons in the external circuit in responding to the straining and releasing of the nanowire . If the charging and discharging processes of many nanowires are synchronized the generated AC voltages can be added up constructively resulting in a high output.

Several factors have to be considered to constructively integrate the outputs of many single wire based nanogenerators. First the metal contacts at the two ends of the nanowire arrays should be non symmetric to produce a Schottky contact at one side and an Ohmic contact at the other side. Second the contacts at the two ends of the nanowires should be robust which is achieved by fully enclosing the distal ends of the nanowires with the deposited metal so that the mechanical deformation can be more effectively transmitted from the electrodes to the nanowires. Third the ZnO nanowires should all have the same crystallographic orientation to ensure the polarities of the piezoelectric potentials generated in all of the nanowires are aligned.

Since a ZnO nanowire grows in parallel to the c axis for a general case and with consideration its anisotropic wurtzite structure and its polarization along the c axis the nanowires need to be rationally grown directly on the substrate rather than by chemical assembly the latter usually gives orientation alignment but not crystallographic polarity alignment. The polarity aligned nanowires create a macroscopic piezoelectric potential in contrast randomly c axis oriented nanowires may result in cancellation of the generated electric currents. Finally all of the ZnO nanowires should be stretched and released in a synchronized manner so that the polarities of the piezoelectric potential generated by all of the nanowires are in the same direction at the same time resulting in the maximized output voltage.

One experimental embodiment was used to fabricate a laterally integrated nanogenerator to meet all of the conditions discussed above. The first step was to grow crystallographically aligned nanowire arrays using chemical approach at 

In the experimental embodiment patterned ZnO stripes covered with Cr layer on the top were fabricated as the seed layer. A Kapton film with a thickness of 125 m available from Dupont was cleaned with acetone isopropyl alcohol and ethanol using ultrasonic which was used as the substrate. A photoresist Shipley Microposit 1813 was spin coated onto this film at a speed of 3000 RPM for 40 seconds. Then the film was baked at 110 C. for 10 minutes. The film was first patterned using mask aligner. Then 300 nm ZnO and 5 nm Cr layers were deposited. Finally after developing and lifting off the stripe shape ZnO pattern with a top layer of Cr was fabricated. The second step was to deposit Cr only at one side of the ZnO stripe but with the other side exposed. The entire structure was spin coated by a layer of photoresist then a mask was used to cover only one side of the ZnO strip by controlling its offset position. Optical lithography followed by developing exposed only one side of the strips. Then a layer of Cr 10 nm was sputtered onto the system. A lift off produced the structure. In the third step the growth of ZnO nanowire arrays was carried out using solution chemistry at 80 C. After 12 hours aging in the solution the film surface turned white indicating that it was covered by ZnO nanowire arrays. Then it was rinsed with deionized water for several times and baked at 100 C. for 1 hour to dry.

The entire structure was packaged using insulative soft polymer such as a photoresist MicroChem PMMA 950K A2 . This packaging layer fixed the ZnO nanowires firmly onto the substrate and made the nanowires to be synchronized in mechanical stretching or releasing with the outer surface of the Kapton film.

To measure the energy harvesting performance of the experimental embodiment of the nanogenerator a periodic external force was used to deform the substrate so that the nanowires experienced a cycling stretching releasing deformation process. Since the thickness of the Kapton substrate was much thicker than the diameter of the nanowires a push to the substrate at its middle section by a mechanical motor resulted in a stretch at its outer surface which produced a pure tensile strain across the rows of the nanogenerator built on the top. Such strain was calculated based on the curvature of the bending and the thickness of the substrate film.

Increasing the strain is an effective way to obtain high output voltage and current because the magnitude of the piezopotential increases approximately linearly with strain. In the experimental embodiment both the output current and voltage increased with the increase of straining rate.

Based on a rational chemical synthesis of nanowire arrays parallel to a polymer substrate a row by row laterally integrated nanogenerators has been fabricated for raising the output voltage of the nanogenerators. A generator structure made of 700 rows of nanowire arrays raised the magnitude of the output voltage to 1.26 V in responding to low frequency mechanical straining at straining rate of 2.13 per second to a strain of 0.19 . The structure was built on a general flexible foldable and stretchable substrate. All of the processing and fabrication were done at substrate temperature of less than 100 C. thus they can be applied to many materials at low cost. The materials used are environmentally friendly and biocompatible. ZnO nanowires are easy to grow on any substrate and any shape substrate at low temperature. Experimental observation shows that ZnO nanowires are robust and fatigue free. Therefore a layer by layer integration of generators is possible for fabricating three dimensional energy harvesters that have a high enough output for powering small electronic devices for independent sustainable and self powered operations.

In another embodiment as shown in and a nanogenerator can be made by growing a plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires such as zinc oxide nanowires from a first substrate . A second substrate such as a polymer film is drawn across the plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires with sufficient force so that a set of nanowires of the plurality of vertical piezoelectric nanowires is transferred onto the second substrate along a common direction. The drawing of the second substrate may be accomplished through use of an arm secured to a pivot at the end of which is a curved platform and a cushion member onto which the second substrate is placed. The first substrate is secured to a pressure adjusting device that is configured to ensure that the correct amount of force is applied to allow transfer of the nanowires .

A plurality of spaced apart conductive stripes are deposited onto the second substrate and portions of the set of nanowires so that the conductive stripes are oriented transversely to the direction of the set of nanowires . This is done by applying a plurality of photoresist bands onto the second substrate so as to define a plurality of passages therebetween. Each passage is complimentary in shape to one of the conductive stripes . A conductive metal such as gold is deposited onto the substrate and the photoresist bands . The photoresist bands are removed thereby leaving the conductive stripes formed from the conductive metal.

As shown in the nanogenerator can be coupled to a load such as a rectification circuit and a storage capacitor which may be used to drive for example a light emitting diode . The working principle is demonstrated in in which nanowires connected in parallel collectively contribute to the current output and nanowires in different rows connected in series constructively improve the voltage output. It is worth noting that the same growth direction of all nanowires and the sweeping printing method ensures that the crystallographic orientations of the horizontal nanowires are aligned along the sweeping direction. Consequently the polarity of the induced piezopotential is also aligned leading to a macroscopic potential contributed constructively by all of the nanowires .

In one experimental embodiment the power output was scaled up with the integration of hundreds of thousands of horizontally aligned nanowires which was made by a scalable sweeping printing method that is simple cost effective and highly efficient. The method included two main steps. In the first step the vertically aligned nanowires were transferred to a receiving substrate to form horizontally aligned arrays. The major components of the transfer setup were two stages Stage 1 had a flat surface that faces downwards and held the vertically aligned nanowires stage 2 had a curved surface and held the receiving substrate. A polydimethylsiloxane PDMS film on the surface of stage 2 was used as a cushion layer to support the receiving substrate and enhance the alignment of the transferred nanowires. The radius of the curved surface of stage 2 equaled the length of the rod supporting the stage which was free to move in circular motion. In the second step electrodes were deposited to connect all of the nanowires together.

In the experimental embodiment vertically aligned ZnO nanowires on a Si substrate were synthesized using physical vapor deposition. The dense and uniform nanowires had a length of about 50 m a diameter of about 200 nm and growth direction along c axis. The same growth direction of nanowires ensures the alignment of the piezoelectric potentials in all of the nanowires and a successful scaling up of the output. A small piece of Si substrate with grown ZnO nanowires was mounted onto stage 1 and a piece of Kapton film with the thickness of 125 m was attached to stage 2 . The distance between the receiving substrate and nanowires was precisely controlled to form a loose contact between the two. The receiving substrate then counterclockwise swept across the vertical nanowires arrays which were detached from Si substrate and aligned on the receiving substrate along the direction of sweeping due to the applied shear force. The as transferred nanowires had an estimated average density of 1.1 10cm.

Next the evenly spaced electrode pattern over the aligned nanowires was defined using photolithography and then followed by sputtering 300 nm thick Au film. After the lifting off the photoresist 600 rows of stripe shaped Au electrodes with 10 m spacing were fabricated on top of the horizontal nanowire arrays. Au electrodes form Schottky contacts with the ZnO nanowires. Approximately 3.0 10nanowires in an effective working area of 1 cmwere in contact with electrodes at both ends. Finally a PDMS packaging over the entire structure was used to further enhance mechanical robustness and protect the device from invasive chemicals.

In another embodiment as shown in and a generator may be made by depositing a first electrode layer that would typically include a metal onto a substrate which could include polymer film such as poly 4 4 oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide . At least a first insulator layer which could include poly methyl methacrylate is deposited onto the first electrode layer . At least a first plurality of elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures such as zinc oxide nanostructures are placed onto the first insulator layer so that the piezoelectric nanostructures are oriented so as to have different lateral axes and so as to have a substantially common vertical axis. At least a second insulator layer which could include poly methyl methacrylate is deposited onto the first plurality of elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures so as to form a first insulated nanostructure layer . Subsequent insulated nanostructure layers may be placed on the first insulated nanostructure layer . A second electrode layer is deposited on the top of the top most insulated nanostructure layer . The generator may be employed to power a load such as a liquid crystal display by flexing the substrate to apply strain to the elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures . When strain is applied the elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures generate a varying electric field that induces charge movement in the electrode layers and .

As shown in each of the elongated frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures has an even charge distribution while at rest. However as shown in they have an uneven charge distribution when subjected to strain. Such distribution results in an electric field with both lateral x axis components and a vertical y axis component. As shown in the lateral components tend to cancel each other out due to the random lateral orientation of the frustoconically shaped piezoelectric nanostructures whereas the vertical components tend to be additive.

In one experimental embodiment utilizing the conical shape of the ZnO nanowires a simple cost effective and scalable nanogenerator was produced for producing high output power that was strong enough to continuously drive a commercial LCD. Unipolar assembly of the frusto conical nanowires in such a composite structure may result in a macroscopic piezoelectric potential across its thickness by introducing a mechanical deformation which results in the distribution and flow of inductive charges between the electrodes on the top and bottom surfaces of the structure.

The basic structure of one experimental embodiment of a nanogenerator included two metal films sandwiching a composite which was made of a unipolar assembly of frusto conical nanowires infiltrated with PMMA. First a Cr Au 50 nm 50 nm metal layer was deposited on a Kapton film 127 m in thickness Dupont 500HN by electron beam evaporation. A layer of PMMA about 2 m in thickness was spun coated onto the metal film. The deviation in flatness of the PMMA film was less than 1 nm as measured by atomic force microscopy imaging. The nanowires used in the experimental embodiment were grown on a solid substrate via vapor deposition process with lengths over 30 m. The nanowires had a frusto conical shape due to the fastest growth along the c axis and a much slower growth rate in the basal plane. The conical shape of the nanowires is important for this embodiment.

The conical nanowires together with the substrate were soaked into ethanol. Application of an ultrasonic wave chopped off the nanowires from the substrate forming a freely suspended nanowire suspension. By dispersing a droplet of the nanowire suspension onto the PMMA film the nanowires were fairly uniformly distributed on the substrate surface with random lateral orientations. The area density of the nanowires on the substrate was about 1400 1500 nanowires per mm which avoided overlapping and aggregations among the nanowires. The spin coating of a thin PMMA layer 100 nm and dropping on of the ZnO nanowire suspension were carried out repeatedly to form a rationally designed composite structure. When five cycles of PMMA and ZnO nanowires were deposited alternatively another thicker PMMA layer 2 m was deposited on which a Cr Au 50 nm 50 nm metal film was deposited to serve as an electrode. The size of the whole device was about 1.5 2 cm and it was robustly bent for many cycles.

For electricity generation the as fabricated nanogenerator was attached to a flexible polystyrene substrate 1 mm in thickness and an external force strained the assembled structure from the back of the substrate. Therefore the nanogenerator experienced a compressive strain when mechanically agitated thus the nanowires were under compressive strain.

The working principle of the assembled nanogenerator results from the unipolar assembly of the frusto conical nanowires. The nanowires laid down with random lateral orientation while the bottom side surfaces were tightly attached to the flat surface of the substrate. With considering the 0001 growth direction of the ZnO nanowires which represents the polar direction of a nanowire. The conical shape of the nanowires results in a constructive alignment in their projected polar directions for all of the nanowires in the direction perpendicular to the substrate and pointing downward into the substrate. Owing to the geometrical shape the component of the c axis of each nanowire in the normal direction of the substrate is c sin 2 where is the conical angle of the nanowire. This projected component of all of the nanowires along the vertical direction constructively adds up which is the source of piezoelectric polarization across the thickness of the composite structure for creating the piezopotential.

Using the conical shape of the ZnO nanowires a nanogenerator is fabricated by simply dispersing them onto a flat PMMA film to form a rational composite structure. The flat PMMA surface may lead to a projected c axis unipolar assembly of the conical nanowires in the direction perpendicular to the substrate which produces a macroscopic piezoelectric potential across the thickness of the structure by mechanical deformation. It is suggested that the observed AC current the dynamic flow of inductive charges between the top and bottom surface electrodes of the structure once subjecting to dynamic mechanical straining. For a nanogenerator with a thickness projected nanowire density of 7000 mmand physical size of 1.5 2 cm compressive strain of 0.11 at a straining rate of 3.67 sproduces an output voltage up to 2 V equivalent open circuit voltage of 3.3V which has been shown to continuously drive a commercial liquid crystal display LCD . Importantly the size of the nanogenerator used for driving the LCD had a size that was comparable to the size of the lighting area so that it could be integrated at the back of the LCD indicating its possibility for live driving of a flexible display. This embodiment of a nanogenerator is a simple cost effective and scalable technology which may be used for example in small personal electronics and self powered systems.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

