---

title: Vertical line hydrophone array
abstract: A hydrophone deployment system including a hydrophone assembly, a container for enclosing the hydrophone assembly body in a coiled configuration, means for ejecting the hydrophone assembly from the container, a signal processing module for processing the electrical signals from the hydrophone units, and a transmitter module for converting said processed electrical signals and transmitting said converted signals to a remote receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07855934&OS=07855934&RS=07855934
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07855934
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 548 006 filed Oct. 10 2006 U.S. Pat. No. 7 719 925 issued May 18 2010 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 726 774 filed Oct. 14 2005 the entire contents of each being hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention is made with Government support under NAVSEA Contract No. N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a hydrophone assembly and a system and method for deploying the assembly particularly in hydrophone arrays for underwater acoustic sensing of subsurface marine vehicles.

Hydrophone arrays are used militarily to detect the presence of submarines and to provide information about their movements. Because modern submarines have the ability with cruise missiles to attack surface ships at great distances the protection of surface shipping requires the ability to detect and track submerged submarines over vast areas of ocean. Hydrophone arrays have typically been used for this purpose.

Hydrophones are acoustic transducers that operate by detecting acoustic signals and converting them to electrical impulses that can then be transmitted by radio waves to a distant receiver. Typically an array of hydrophones is loaded into a sonobuoy which can then be dropped by airplane into the ocean. The array is then deployed while a float containing a transmitter remains at the surface of the water.

It is desirable to detect not only the presence and magnitude of acoustic signals but also the direction of the signals. Various directional acoustic sensors are known. Such vector acoustic sensors often employ an accelerometer which can add to the cost of such equipment. What is needed is a simple and less costly acoustic sensing system which can also provide directional information about the received acoustic signals.

A hydrophone assembly is provided herein the hydrophone assembly comprising at least four hydrophone units for converting an acoustic signal to an electrical signal the hydrophone units being parallel in a cylindrically symmetric spatial relationship with each other and at least one spacer or semi rigid exoskeleton element to maintain the hydrophone units fixed in the spatial relationship to each other wherein said hydrophone units and spacer element are embedded to form an elongated flexible body.

The invention herein advantageously provides a means for deploying a directional hydrophone assembly with less chance of twisting the hydrophone wires. The assembly is collapsible into a size A or smaller sonobuoy.

Referring now to the system is shown deployed in a body of water in and packaged in a sonobuoy cannister in . Deployment from the cannister can be accomplished by for example dropping system into the water by airplane surface vessel or any other suitable means. Jettison of the contents of the system from the sonobuoy cannister can be accomplished by various means such as the impact of the sonobuoy into the water. Alternatively a battery e.g. seawater activated battery can power the ejection of the contents by for example firing a squib. Also back plate can be jettisoned by water impact firing a squib etc. to allow the hydrophone assembly to descend to the proper depth. Float remains at the surface of the body of water and preferably includes a transmitter with an antenna and the appropriate battery powered electronics package for converting the electrical signals from the hydrophones into radio waves for wireless transmission to a remote receiver. Tether of compliant material includes a conductive wire for transmitting electrical signals from preamp electronics package to the float . Typically the tether includes up to 250 feet of 1 16th inch diameter cable. Preamp electronics package is discussed more fully below with reference to . Weight serves to facilitate deployment of the hydrophone system from the sonobuoy and maintain the hydrophone assembly in a vertical orientation once deployed. Hydrophone assembly can be coiled around the preamp electronics package when contained within the sonobuoy to make optimal use of the storage space available in the cannister . The sonobuoy cannister can be size A or smaller.

The system can be active or passive. Active sonobuoy systems emit acoustic signals into the water and listen for the return echo. Passive systems merely listen for sounds made by underwater craft e.g. power plant propellers door closings or other mechanically generated or human generated noise.

Referring additionally now to the hydrophone assembly includes at least four and optionally five or more hydrophone units in a parallel array optionally a non metallic central wire extending axially through the hydrophone assembly for structural support and one or more spacer elements through which the hydrophone units and preferably non metallic central wire are disposed. In the embodiment in spacer element maintains the hydrophone units and central wire in a fixed parallel cylindrically symmetric spatial relationship. The central wire hydrophone units and spacer element are preferably embedded in a pliable encapsulant which helps secure the hydrophone array against undesirable helical twisting of the hydrophone assembly and torsional misalignment of the hydrophones . Such misalignment causes errors in the directional information perceived and reported by the hydrophone assembly hence the advantage of the encapsulant spacer element and optional structural wire as means to prevent such twisting of the hydrophone assembly . Other means to accomplish this same end include fastening the hydrophones at regular intervals to an encompassing hose wall typically fiber reinforced as an exoskeleton to ensure a preferred shape when not acted upon by external forces.

The encapsulant when used is preferably a polymeric potting gelling agent which when set has a density sound speed product similar to that of seawater so as to reduce the chance of modifying the acoustic signal passing through the assembly. The assembly is adapted to be potted as a unit with the hydrophone units held under tension during the potting process until the potting agent is cured to a solid state from the liquid state. Suitable potting agents for use in the present invention include polyurethane rho c encapsulants available commercially from BF Goodrich Co.

The optimal dimensions of the hydrophone array depend upon the target frequency of the acoustic signals expected tilt of the array due to relative current between the surface float and the hydrophone array operating depth and the vertical acoustic beamwidth desired. A preferred length for the hydrophone units depending on the design frequency and environmental conditions is from about 128 to about 188 where 8 is the wavelength of the target acoustic signal. This length provides a balance between vertical beamwidth given expected array tilt and end fire notch depth to suppress any target frequency band noise originating from the surface float given the operating depth . For example referring to L is the length of the hydrophone wires and in a preferred embodiment is 16 8.

The diametrical spacing D shown in between hydrophone units and in the array can preferably range from about 8 4 to about 8 20 more preferably about 8 10. D is also the spacing between hydrophones and . The optimal spacing is determined to optimize signal strengths without the need for a pre whitening filter. By way of example for a design frequency of 10 kHz L is preferably about 95 inches and D is preferably about 0.984 inches. For a design frequency of 15 kHz L is preferably about 63 inches and D is preferably about 0.656 inches. The dimensions given above are for illustrative purposes and values outside of the range given above can be used when appropriate for example when optimizing the design to cover a range of frequencies.

Various types of acoustic transducers can be used as hydrophones to detect acoustic waves transmitted through the water. For example the acoustic transducer can comprise a cylindrical tube formed at least in part of a piezo material. Piezo materials can be piezoelectric which generate an electrical pulse or current upon receiving a mechanical impulse or piezoresistive which change resistance upon receiving a mechanical impulse. Piezoelectric material can comprise an active polarized ceramic material such as barium titanate or lead zirconate titanate PZT . The piezoelectric material can in another embodiment be a flexible piezoelectric polymeric material such as polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF or a piezo rubber composite material. Piezoresistive materials include for example conductive elastomeric polymeric foams or rubbers that become more conductive when compressed.

For purposes of the present invention the hydrophone needs to be sufficiently flexible to be folded into a sonobuoy canister. Typically hydrophones include a central or core conductor an outer conductor and a layer of piezo electric material disposed between and in contact with the core conductor and outer conductor in a coaxial configuration. When subjected to mechanical force the piezo material such as polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF generates an electrical current which is carried by the conductors. However in a new preferred embodiment hydrophone includes a piano wire type construction as shown in . In particular a central wire fabricated from a resilient metallic or non metallic material preferably spring steel provides a resilient core which gives the hydrophone a shape memory and a biasing force such that when the hydrophone is released from the canister into the seawater it automatically returns to a straight configuration. A conductive wire coil of smaller diameter wire than the central spring steel wire is first coated with a layer of piezo electric material e.g. PVDF and then in one embodiment of the invention is coated with a conductive layer of copper aluminum silver gold or the like. Preferably conductive layer is applied e.g. by spraying dipping painting etc. as a silver ink. The conductive wire coil is then tightly wound around the central wire . The conductive wire coil is preferably fabricated from copper aluminum silver gold or alloys thereof or of any other highly conductive ductile and flexible material. In an especially preferred embodiment the wire coil comprises a copper wire. In this embodiment the conductive wire coil acts as an inner conductor and the conductive coating acts as an outer conductor both being in contact with the piezo electric material layer . Optionally the conductive layer can be applied after the piezo electric material coated conductive wire is coiled around the resilient central wire preferably under pressure. In yet another embodiment the conductive layer e.g. silver ink is applied both before and after the piezo electric material coated conductive wire is coiled around the resilient central wire . Preferably hydrophone can include an outer jacket of polyurethane or other waterproof electrically insulative flexible material to prevent electrical signals from the hydrophone from being dissipated in the seawater. The copper coil provides significantly greater flexibility than a comparably sized hydrophone using a coaxial configuration with a solid copper core. The hydrophone wire typically has a diameter ranging from about to about 1 10 inches.

Referring to and each hydrophone and is connected to the amplifier and represented in by the 500 pf capacitors C C C and C respectively. The capacitors shown in are capacitive representations of the hydrophones. For example the 500 pf capacitors C C C and C represent a hydrophone having a length of 48. When the piezoelectric material of the hydrophone elements is excited by a incident wave in the water the amplifier of receives a signal from each of the hydrophone elements . shows this signal as V attached to hydrophone C and in operation an incident wave produces a signal on each hydrophone. The amplifier then produces three differential signals DIFF DIFF and SUM from the signals received from the hydrophone elements. DIFF is a differential signal based on the difference between signals received from opposing hydrophones and . DIFF is a differential signal based on the difference between signals received from opposing hydrophones and . SUM is a differential signal based on the summation of signals received from hydrophones . These sum and difference signals are analogous to standard directional frequency and ranging DIFAR sonobuoy signals that when digitized and applied to the DIFAR processor s trigonometric equations the direction a sound came from can be determined.

The SUM output is equivalent to the prior art. Compatibility with conventional telemetry and processing is also provided for by the present invention. One main feature of the present invention that differs from a conventional DIFAR sonobuoy is in what is being sensed. A conventional DIFAR sonobuoy senses pressure at a single point and cross axis motion via accelerometers whereas the present invention senses virtual pressure at a single point via the SUM channel and cross axis pressure gradient via the two DIFF channels. Further the high frequency low pass filter response corner can be modified by changing the simple capacitor resistor shunt impedance of capacitor C and resistor R and capacitor C and resistor R.

The electronics package preferably also includes a compass for determining the alignment of the hydrophone assembly by providing a directional magnetic reference signal. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the compass is a flux gate compass that provides a magnetic North referencing system.

The system is deployed for example by launch from an airplane. When the sonobuoy enters the water the contents of the sonobuoy are ejected from the canister. The float remains on the water surface and the deployable array drops to a predetermined depth being drawn downward by weight which maintains the hydrophone assembly in a vertical orientation.

Acoustic waves which strike the array are converted by the hydrophone wires into electrical signals which are then processed by the electronics package and carried by a wire connection through the tether to the float and electronics package finally converted to a radio signal and conveyed by wireless transmission to a remote receiver.

While the above description contains many specifics these specifics should not be construed as limitations of the invention but merely as exemplifications of preferred embodiments thereof. For example while the invention herein is particularly advantageous for military applications and has been described in terms of detection of submarines it can clearly be employed in any situation wherein acoustic detection is needed such as oceanographic or other scientific studies rescue operations and the like. Those skilled in the art will envision many other embodiments within the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the claims appended hereto.

