---

title: User defined internet jukebox kiosks set top box
abstract: A computer readable storage method and system allowing any artist to upload media, including images, video and music, to a server, have that media uploaded in a system of internet jukeboxes placed in establishments for instant playback of media by paying customers. The system of internet jukeboxes programmed to maintain an account for the artist allowing the artist to earn fees and royalties from playback of the media and to provide for automated payment of rent, and other fees due the establishment and the service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146925&OS=09146925&RS=09146925
owner: 
number: 09146925
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100727
---
Making music takes a lot of time dedication and money. The people lucky enough to have a band still have to work hard at playing shows and exposing themselves in a way that will counter the heavy cost of equipment and practice room rent. Current internet jukeboxes serve media in digital format therefore artists have to pay big bucks to get a digital record and still so few get air play. Before the invention of the internet jukebox an artist had to know someone to get their cd s into the jukebox. Now with the great technological advances of the internet and internet jukeboxes artists still have to audition submit and practically beg the companies to put their music in their systems. Some companies will not even consider you unless you have an existing record deal. If your music is not mainstream you can forget about getting it played on any jukebox.

As a programmer musician and sole creator of a website I have noticed the struggle faced by many local artists and musicians in the ability of promoting their music by means of the internet jukeboxes. The present invention relates particularly to the ability of a band artist and or individual musician to easily upload their media to a website that is directly linked to an internet jukebox kiosk and or set top box.

Jukebox systems are widely used in establishments as means of promoting well known musicians. The not so well known musicians can use this invention to promote themselves without having the clout previously needed. Typically the musicians will upload their media to the system which will allow them to earn fees and royalties. The novelty of the invention is the power an individual will have in promoting themselves.

This invention will put an end to the current struggle local musicians face today in getting their music played in the internet jukeboxes and create better livelihoods for individual artists and bands that may have never otherwise had a chance to be heard. As used herein the term jukebox is meant to be interchangeable with the terms internet jukebox kiosks and set top box. 

A self service IT Web 2.0 jukebox method and system is disclosed for allowing musicians a way to get exposure and make money in public venues without having to go through any screening process to join or any filtering process to remain in the system. The system is tailored to provide real time authoring by the artists in the system real time reporting to the artists in the system and automatic real time payment processing to the artists in the system by the establishment where the system is located. The method and system provides artists the ability to self promote their works in public venues without third party intervention and gives artists a more meaningful way to make money by providing a direct link to their customers. The ability to create and update content given by the method and system leads to the collaborative work of many rather than a few authors. The method and system draw together the capabilities of client and server side software content syndication and the use of network protocols. The method and system allows customers to do more than just retrieve information published by jukebox operators. The method and system has further characteristics such as openness freedom and collective intelligence by the way of artist participation. As used herein the terms server cloud and service are interchangeable and mean the same thing.

The present invention is directed to a computer readable storage method and system allowing any artist to upload media where media comprises images video and music to a server have that media uploaded in a system of internet jukeboxes placed in establishments for instant playback of media by paying customers providing the system of internet jukeboxes with programming to maintain an account for the artist allowing the artist to earn fees and royalties from playback of the media and to provide for automated payment of rent and other fees due the venue the service provider and other licensing agencies. As used herein the term upload comprises authorship with the ability to create edit update and delete and to decide what media will be made available for playback by users on internet jukeboxes.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a computer implemented method of allowing any artist to upload media where media comprises images video and music to an internet jukebox comprising the steps of providing the artist with an interface to enroll pay a membership fee upload media to a server instantly transferring the media to a system of internet jukeboxes in establishments providing for instant availability for playback of media by customers on internet jukeboxes in a venue or establishment after uploading by the artist to the server and providing the system of internet jukeboxes with programming to maintain an account for the musician allowing the artist to earn fees and royalties from playback of the media and to provide for automated payment of rent and other fees due the venue the service provider and other licensing agencies.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a computer readable storage medium for use with a graphic display device bearing program code for instructing a computer to perform a method of allowing any artist to upload media where media comprises images video and music to an internet jukebox comprising the steps of providing the artist with an interface to enroll pay a membership fee upload media to a server instantly transferring the media to a system of internet jukeboxes in establishments providing for instant availability for playback of media by customers on internet jukeboxes in a venue or establishment after uploading by the artist to the server and providing the system of internet jukeboxes with programming to maintain an account for the artist allowing the artist to earn fees and royalties from playback of the media and to provide for automated payment of rent and other fees due the venue the service provider and other licensing agencies.

As used herein a computer readable storage device is any article of manufacture that contains data that can be read by a computer or a carrier wave signal carrying data that can be read by a computer. As used herein an article of manufacture is considered as non transitory and a carrier wave signal is considered as transitory. This invention provides graphic user interfaces herein referred to as screen pages pages or screens for use with any mouse type pointing device or equally effective in a touch screen computer totally eliminating any mouse motion.

The present invention is a unique and new way to expose local artists from any state city or country to a world wise audience currently not implemented by internet jukeboxes. By way of overview and with reference to the system of the present invention includes the members meaning an individual musician band artist etc. that add their media meaning images music and videos to the system and the manner in which this media is added to the system . When a member gets on anything with an internet connection such as a computer that can upload their media they will connect to the website or user interface provided to add their media. The back end system will be composed of servers databases and web programs that will handle storage retrieval and updates to the members accounts and foremost their media. The establishments that have the jukeboxes kiosk or set top boxes will have the media available from all members in the system. This means that as soon as any member adds their media to their account it will be instantly available for playback. As used herein the term user is interchangeable with artist.

To begin it goes without saying that in most digital systems there are digital user interfaces to interact with the system. In order for someone to add themselves to this system currently they go to a web site. shows a current site home page where users go to add themselves to the system. The user will see the terms and conditions page shown in . By joining users agree to the terms and conditions and give permission to publicly perform and promote their media. When the user presses the subscribe button they are forwarded to the payment gateway page where they can pay their annual membership fee either with a major credit card or use a payment gateway such as a PayPal account. Once the user selects a payment method and continues they will get to review the order once more before agreeing and paying. Once the user presses the agree and pay button they will receive their login credentials such as would be generated by PayPal . The user can write down their credentials and press return to the home page or close the browser. If the user used a payment gateway account such as PayPal PayPal will send will send a payment notification to a web service on the web site which will store all of the information to the system s database from the subscriber that was just created.

The user will also receive several email from the payment gateway account provider showing their transaction details including a payment successful email and a recurring payment email.

If the user pressed the return to homepage button after paying they will be redirected to the home page as shown in . Upon returning the user can use their given credentials to log into the system and create their account. Once the user enters their credentials they will be forwarded to the profile creation page as shown in where they can create their profile based account. In the create profile page a user will enter their artist name email address and create a password. Users will also be able to enter their phone number and geographic information which can be used for location based searches. Users can also enter their genre which can be used for searches biography and web site link.

Behind the scenes once the user presses the complete sign up button a new entry in the ids table as shown on the ids table page in is created with the corresponding type. This abstraction interface allows a single table to generate different identifiers for multiple entity objects allowing the type to define the object. In this way you re not limited to a few types of users.

Once the user presses the complete sign up button their account is created and the user is forwarded to the Control Panel page shown in . The navigation links are on the left panel and categorized by relevance. The first link is the Edit Profile link. From the edit profile page shown on and continued on a user can edit their profile information.

The user can click on the save button to update their profile. The user can click on the Control Panel Hyperlink to go back to the main Control Panel page as shown in . The Control Panel page is the home page for edits.

To add images the user can click on the Edit Pictures link which will forward him to the edit pictures page as shown in . The user can click on the browse button to locate an image to select from their local computer as shown in . Once the picture is found the user can press the open button to close the file select menu as shown on the upload image page in . This may vary from OS to OS. The user can now press the send button to upload a picture to their profile. The system will automatically re side and create a thumb copy of the original as shown on the uploaded image page in . The user can add more images delete their images by clicking the delete button or if they add an image with the same file name the image will be overridden. The user can click the Control Panel link to go back to the home page. Instead of the ad block you would see the user s media image as shown in .

The Edit Music link allows the user to add media by going to the edit music page as shown on . The user is presented with the file upload control where they can press browse to select media to upload to the system all as shown on the selection of music upload on . Media is meant to comprise music or videos. Once a user selects their media they can press the open button to confirm their selection as shown on the uploaded music page on . This will vary from OS to OS. Once the track is selected the user can press the upload button to begin the upload. Since media files take a longer time to upload the user will see an upload progress bar as shown on and .. Once the media is uploaded to the system you will see it on the uploaded music page as shown in .

The system will automatically figure out aspects of the media file such as file size play time and average volume. The user can add more music media delete their files by clicking the delete button or if they add a file with the same file name the file will be overridden. The user can click the Control Panel link to go back to the home page .

Behind the scenes the file was saved to the file system on the remote server so that you can serve the file in a normal fashion without having to store it in the database but the files metadata and aspects gathered were stored in the database so that you can search for it quickly. More precisely the file was stored outside of the public  html or web folder to prevent back links and illegal downloads. Now you have to go through a web service to get the file from the system. The web service helps to track usage and session tracking to keep compliance with ASCAP licensing for popular music. The files metadata can be browsed by calling a restful web service. The restful web service contains Data Access Objects dao s that will call the underlying metadata stored in the database. Once the service retrieves the data from the database through the dao s based on the search criteria it will encode just the metadata and return it in a commonly used format such as xml or json.

So basically you are just browsing the database through a restful web service. In the case of an image the image will be retrieved from the server in a similar fashion and shown on the program. In the case of a song or video the media will only be used when a song is requested by playback. Due to the nature of browsing data in the system the client software on the jukebox will automatically have the new data available as soon as it is added. In this case instantly If it s on the server it s available in the jukebox.

Notice that the musician did not have to go through a 3party to get approval to beon the system and there is no need for an embedded database caching or even a hard drive on the client jukebox. You don t even need a Graphical Operating System since the jukebox software can run on top of the kernel. You can even network boot.

From the Control Panel as shown in the user can create albums from their tracks by clicking on the Edit Albums link. From the Edit Albums Page as shown on a user can create Virtual Albums and associate their media with those albums. The user can select the number of disks and enter their album name as shown in . Once the user presses the Create Album button their album will be created as shown on the create album page in . A user can then select the album and click on the Add To Selected Album link to add their track to the album as shown on .

It should be noted that with the concept of Virtual Albums all we re doing is creating associations. The track can be deleted from the album or the album can be deleted but the track will still exist. An association so that you can have multiple albums with the same track in case you have a greatest hits album and want to use the same track for multiple albums.

A music video can also be associated with an album. Any media not associated with albums will not be shown in the jukebox unless there are no albums created.

As a more detailed explanation if you have an account created and do not have media then you will not be shown on the jukebox. . So in other words anyone can create an account but only those with media in their account will be shown on the jukebox . Adding media to your profile will make your profile available on the jukebox . Media activates your profile on the jukebox . For those who have media on their profile by default their profile picture will show in the jukebox. For the user that has media in their profile and no albums created all of their media will be available on the jukebox. This feature is for the musician that can t make up their mind or has not decided yet what to name their album or what cover art to use or just simply does not want to create albums and just add tracks. A user can be on a jukebox without creating an album. Once the user creates an album then only the track in the album will be shown. So for example if a user has 20 songs uploaded and an 8 song album only their 8 songs album will show on the jukebox. This simple mechanism allows musicians a way to only feature what they want to feature.

A user can go back to the Control Panel and also add Cover Art to their album by clicking on the Edit Cover Art link. In the Edit Cover Art page shown in a user will see their images and their albums created. The user can select the album and click on the Add link to make the association. The user can click on the Control Panel link to return to the home page .

Notice that the edit cover art view earnings and delete profile is listed under features under development and the subscription information is listed under personal information. As new features are added the line structure will change.

The user can click on the Subscription Information link to see their subscription information page as shown on and continued on . This data was provided by the payment gateway provider when the user subscribed. The user can click on the Control Panel link to return to the home page .

From the Control Page a user can click on the View Earnings link to see their current earnings page as shown on . The earnings page allows a user to see what they have made in real time.

The client jukebox is both a client to the system and part of the system. The jukebox can be presented in various ways depending on the location where it will be placed. While not limited to this configuration a present embodiment uses an industrial panel pc touch pad on a standing console that can be fitted with a bill acceptor and a credit card reader for payment by the customer of an establishment. The jukebox has three main parts the browse page the search page and the band info page. While the system is initializing it shows the splash screen as shown in . The browse page as shown in shows artists in alphabetical order and can be traversed. While you change pages you can see a progress indicator as shown in . You can select the artists profile from the browse page by clicking on it as shown on . You can add credits to the machine through a bill acceptor and or a credit card reader in the case of the bar version. On the desktop version you can click on it. From the band page as shown on you select the song you want to play. A modal page as shown on will pop up and ask you if you want to confirm that you want to play the song. If you select yes play this song the system will buffer the track into ram.

In creating the software several ways to play music were found. One way is to play files only from the file system or hard drive in the jukebox this would allow for a jukebox with no need to use the internet. The second way is to use caching and check to see if a song is available in the hard drive and if so play it from there and if not download it to the hard drive and then play it this would allow for a jukebox that can automatically update from the internet and require less bandwidth since it caches locally but makes you wait for the entire song to download before playing it. The third way is to stream and download at the same time using a circular byte buffer this allows the jukebox to start playing the song right away and also save the file at the same time into the cache. The fourth way is to stream the track into ram and then play it. This would ensure that the entire song is available before playing it and would not require ay duplication of the track since it will never store into the hard drive. All of these different options are just options that can be configured. The preferred method does not require the jukebox to have a hard drive or a caching mechanism and would still stay in sync in real time with the remote system. You don t even need a Graphical Operating System since the jukebox software can run on top of the kernel. You can even network boot.

Most musicians are not studio engineers but still opt to record their own music since it s more affordable so they end up with tracks that have different volumes and some are mixed bad with spikes in the audio file. Agnostic to any method mentioned above for obtaining the audio file the jukebox will master the artist s track using digital signal processing. First the average volume is checked using the root mean RMS formula. This takes into account all of the positive and negative values in the sound wave and the average volume is analyzed. This step can also occur on the server. The RMS returns a positive value which is then negated by subtracting the RMS value from 0. This negative value is then added to the maximum peak volume of 1 which returns a positive value less than 1. With this value in memory the track begins to play while the system applies several real time digital signal processing filters to fill 16 bit 44 k audio. The system applies a gain to the left and right channels. The system then applies dynamic range compression with stereo linkage using a 4 1 ratio with a threshold of 0.8. The system finally applies a hard limiter. This is done to make the tracks all sound relatively the same volume and keeps poorly mixed tracks that would otherwise sound harsh and peak from ruining the speaker system at the venue. Development is underway to do this to video files as well. Notice that while other jukeboxes turn artists away for this exact reason the present invention on the other hand helps artists by mastering their track on the fly. After the track is buffered you will see the message say mastering track as shown on the mastering track page in . These are all options that can be configured.

From either the Band Page or the Browse page the customer can press the Search button to search for tracks by title artist or album. From the search page as shown in the customer can also pay tracks.

There are different versions and configurations of jukeboxes . Some versions contain only local bands for venues that only want local artists. Other versions contain local bands as well as licensed music for venues that want this jukebox to be their featured jukebox. Royalties are paid to the artists and to the digital rights associations on a per jukebox basis. The jukebox has the ability to run in either mode. It is just another configuration option that can be enabled or disabled even while it is running.

When looking at a popular artist with many albums the albums can be traversed from a single page by clicking on the album.

Since the jukebox software is written with JavaFX it is OS and architecture agnostic. It runs on everything where Java runs even on new J2ME enabled TV sets. With the screen size api shown on any application in this case the jukebox can be sized to fit any screen agnostic to the screen resolution. In is shown an application taking up 1 inch of real estate on the screen. shows the same application without needing to restart taking up the entire screen. Other versions contain videos as shown in and some future versions are said to contain karaoke.

Other clients can be written with different programming languages to support other language specific devices but can still use the same underlying system. For example objective c or flash could be used to write an iphone client. The android sdk can be used to write a client for the android phone. The system and business processes that provide the solution are separate from the languages used to implement it. A good example is the Facebook social networking site. This site provides a solution for social networking but has many different clients that use the same underlying system. Similarly YouTube has many different clients that use the same underlying system.

To point out the main features notice that the jukebox updates in real time. There is no screening process to join the system. There is no filtration system to filter out music. The system is inclusive rather than exclusive. Tracts get mastered on the fly. Artists get paid royalties every time their media plays. Artists become content authors and control their content on the jukebox client.

When a jukebox is placed in a Venue the Venue receives an account in the system as shown on the venue account page on . Once the venue account is created the venue will be able to log into the system and see a venue version of the Control Panel shown on where images can be added and info edited. The venue user can click on the account summary to see details of activity in regards to the jukebox in their establishment. The accounts summary page shown in will show the venue their earnings in real time.

To better illustrate a different account with activity is shown in and .. At any time the venue can see what the machine has earned. Earnings are shared between the artists venues digital rights associations and the inventor if the preferred method is used. A venue can also purchase a jukebox outright or rent to own which would change what their share and what the website provider would share. Currently using the preferred method where the website provider owns the machine 20 goes towards paying royalties to the musicians and the 80 left is split 50 50 between the venue and the website provider. This is in line with the industry. In other words this is how the other jukeboxes split the earnings. Typically the digital rights associations collect on a per year basis. Being that this is considered new digital media if the digital rights associations change the manner in which they collect the formula for splitting money can be adjusted to make sure everyone involved get a fair share. Again the venues cut is 40 but they will collect 100 of the money from the machine themselves. With this method in place there is no confusion of what the venue will get. This also solves the overhead involved in having to send someone to go into the bars to collect the money every time the bill acceptor fills up and is in line with web 2.0 methodologies trust the user. Since the venue collects 100 of the earnings and keeps 40 they will pay 60 back to the provider through the system which will trigger mass payments to the artists. At the beginning of the following month the venue will see their bill from the previous month and have a way to pay their balance.

The illustration shown in shows that in the previous month the jukebox collected 133 dollars so in this case the venue would pay 79.80 to settle up for the previous month. The venue user can click on the pay now button to pay their balance. They will then be forwarded to the payment gateway where they can provide payment. They can either pay with a credit card as shown on the venue credit card payment page in or they can log in and pay with their PayPal account or similar payment gateway provider as shown on the venue payment portal gateway page in .

The payment gateway can change but currently PayPal is used. As soon as the payment is posted the system receives an instant payment notification. As soon as the payment clears the system receives a supplemental instant payment notification stating that the payment has cleared. This notification will trigger a mass payment to the artists in the jukebox for the royalties owed to them. The artists do not need to have a PayPal account to receive their payments they receive electronic correspondence that prompts them to create one if they do not already have one. Transaction details are stored in the cloud based system. Every party meaning the venue the artists the digital rights associations and check1two is responsible for paying their own taxes. The system will automatically enable disable any jukeboxes for non payment and handle charging late fees etc. The system also automatically handles generating reports for the digital rights associations and for the Internal Revenue Service IRS for tax purposes. A payment schematic is shown in .

Additionally from something as simple as two foreign keys such as track id venue id and a timestamp from the jukebox money earned database table a wealth of statistical information can be retrieved. From a band s perspective a band can know how much did my track make today yesterday this week last week this month last month and all time for each individual track. Bands can also know where did my song play the most Where should I play my next show etc From a venue s perspective a venue can know what songs played in what order how many times what is the most popular song how much money has the jukebox collected what can they expect to receive what bands are the most popular who should I invite to play at my venue etc.

Notice there was no 3party involved in collecting royalties from the machine paying royalties to the venue or paying royalties to the artist it is all automated by the self maintained service oriented architecture SOA cloud based open Web 2.0 system.

