---

title: Behavior-based inferences and actions
abstract: The position and/or movement of at least one device for a user can be monitored over time, and various types of information inferred based on patterns in that user behavior. A device can determine various locations where a user typically stays for a period of time, as well as the routes the user takes to get to those locations. Based upon time, date, and various other information, the device can infer the type of location and/or route, as well as the likelihood that the user will take a given route to one of those locations at any time. By being able to infer future actions and locations of the user at certain times, a device can proactively provide a variety of functionality to the user, such as to provide suggested alternative routes, move meetings, notify others of estimated times of arrival, and perform other such tasks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09574894&OS=09574894&RS=09574894
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09574894
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101119
---
Many people are increasingly relying upon portable devices to store track and update various types of information and handle various types of tasks. For example many users rely upon electronic calendars synchronized across one or more devices to keep track of the user s schedule and often rely upon the device to notify the user of certain upcoming events. A downside to such use is that a user must typically input all relevant information into the device and often must access multiple applications in order to get all the information a user needs. For example a user might have to manually enter information such as the user s home address and work address into a contact application and if the user wants to get directions between the two locations the user must open a mapping application and select or re enter that information. If the user wants to obtain traffic information about the user s commute between those locations the user must open a traffic application and enter the route between those locations. If there is an accident and the user wants to find another way home the user often must reopen the mapping program and attempt to determine an alternate route. If the user is going to be late as a result the user often has to manually text call or otherwise manually notify someone at home. As devices become ever more intelligent and offer additional types of functionality it becomes increasingly undesirable to continue to have to access different applications and manually enter information as well as to require the user to perform a number of other such tedious tasks.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to interfacing between a computing device and a user. In various embodiments information such as positional data and movement data with respect to time can be captured for a user and analyzed to attempt to infer various aspects of that user s behavior. For example a portable computing device such as a smart phone or personal data assistant PDA might be carried by a user a significant portion of the day particularly while the user is away from home. If the position of that computing device is able to be determined and monitored over time using a component such as a global positioning system GPS of the device or an approach such as triangulation via cellular towers for example then patterns of movement can be inferred for the user. The patterns can be segmented into any of a number of different categories such as dwells where a user typically remains relatively stationary e.g. within a specified range distance boundary degree of certainty etc. for at least a period of time and routes that are typically taken by a user between those dwells. Based on factors such as the time of day and days of the week that the user typically follows these patterns various user actions can be inferred and used to provide various functionality to the user. An advantage to being able to infer such information is that various functionality can be provided without the need for the user to manually input or otherwise provide a significant amount of data needed to otherwise provide that functionality.

For example a device might be able to infer the location of the user s home and place of business based upon factors such as the times at which the user s position is at these locations. Further the device might be able to determine primary and alternate commute routes that the user takes to get to and from work. While certain programs determine routes to take between points approaches in accordance with various embodiments instead learn the preferred routes taken by a user based on that user s actual behavior. Thus if the device infers that the user is going home on a primary commute route and detects an accident along the way the device can suggest an alternative route that is actually preferred by the user instead of a route determined by a conventional route determination algorithm. Such an approach can be beneficial as there might be certain routes that a user does not want to take for any of a number of reasons or routes that the user enjoys taking if the primary route becomes undesirable for any reason.

Other advantages can be obtained as well as a computing device for a user often has access to other types of information for the user. For example the device can have access to a user s calendar task list and contact information. Being able to determine current position information for a user knowing where the user has to go and knowing information about the route the user is likely to take the device can perform tasks such as to remind the user when to leave in order to make a meeting on time notify a person with whom the user is scheduled to meet if the user is likely to be late or move a meeting to ensure the user has sufficient time to make the meeting. The device can perform other tasks as well such as to prompt the user to stop at a store or other location to perform an item on the task list such as to pick up an item when the user s route likely will take the user by that store and the user has sufficient time before the user s next appointment or dwell.

In some embodiments a logically centralized system or service can communicate with multiple devices associated with a user and can aggregate this information in order to infer user behavior. For example a user might have a navigation system in the user s car that can capture movement data for the user. The user might have an electronic book reader that the user takes when the user is on a train or a bus. The user also might have a personal media player that the user takes when the user goes jogging. In order to get a better overall view of user behavior positional information from any or all of these can be aggregated to fill in user behavior for specific periods. Based on information such as the speed of the user different types of routes can be determined as well. For example based upon speed and potentially other information such as the type of device a device can determine whether a user is likely walking running or taking a mode of transpiration.

Knowing about the user s routes and dwells also enables a device to infer where a user is going when a user makes a certain movement within a certain range of time and take any of a number of actions based on that inference. For example when a device determines that a user is following a portion of a route at a certain time such as a commute route home after the end of the work day the device can notify a significant other that the user is on the way home and can provide an estimated time of arrival based upon past behavior current conditions and other such information. If the user picks up a child on the way home the device can notify that child with similar information. If the child has a device with similar information the device can notify the child whether the parent has left work or not when the parent is likely to pick up the child and if the parent is running late can potentially suggest other options based on the child s past behavior such as to take the bus or ride home with a neighbor.

A user also can authorize the device to manage certain aspects of the user s calendar or other such information. For example if the user typically goes to get coffee every day at a certain time the device might add that recurring event to the user s calendar as a certain type of event. If the user goes to a gym a couple times a week but does not care when those times are the device can schedule those times based on past behavior upcoming schedule and other such information and can have the ability to change those times as necessary. The device also can proactively schedule adjust or move meetings as well based on similar and other types of information.

Where multiple devices are able to communicate the activities of multiple users can be coordinated as well. For example devices can setup meetings and even select appropriate locations based on factors such as each user s schedule where the user is where the user is likely to be and which route the user is likely to take. The progress of each user can be monitored as well such that the other users can be notified if a user is going to be late has a conflict arise etc.

In some embodiments a device or system or service in communication with the device can expose one or more interfaces such as client facing application programming interfaces APIs that enable third party providers developers or other such entities to obtain various types of information for inferring user behavior or other such purposes . For example a device might monitor or at least capture various types of information for a user such as motion position rate of movement acceleration and other such information at various times. A third party might be able to specify through at least one of the APIs a set of primitives or other such information to receive at certain times including information such as position direction and time information and can use that information to track and infer user behavior. Based at least in part upon those inferences the third party can utilize another API to provide instructions or communications to the device such as to provide alternate routes move meeting times or provide any other such functionality discussed or suggested herein. In some instances the commands can cause the device to automatically perform certain actions without requiring user interaction where the user has allowed such actions to be taken automatically .

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

As discussed a user can carry or otherwise be associated with any of a number of devices which can each record or obtain position and or movement information. For example a user might have a navigation system in the user s car that can continually determine the location of the vehicle during operation. Further the user might have a smart phone that determines location information based upon global positioning system GPS data cellular signal triangulation or any other appropriate mechanism. Further still the user might have a watch tablet computer or any of a number of other such devices that can track position information over at least a period of time. A user can also have any of a number of devices that use accelerometers or other such location and motion determination devices as well as cameras and other elements that can be used to determine motion location and other such information. In some embodiments at least some of these devices can communicate over a network with at least one system or service operable to combine the information to obtain position information for a user over a larger range of time. For example information from the user s car may be most useful when the car is in motion but may be of limited use at other times. If a user logs into a computer at work information for that computer can be used during operation to determine the current position of the user. If the user turns on an electronic book reader or tablet computer while riding the bus for example information can be obtained for the current position of the user. In many cases a system might rely upon a single device such as a cellular phone that is likely with the user a majority of the time but in other embodiments information from multiple devices might be included for those times when the user is not carrying the phone the phone cannot get a signal etc.

In various embodiments position information for a user is monitored over time. One or more algorithms can be executed against the position information in an attempt to recognize patterns or other repeating occurrences in the user s movement and or position. For example consider the example map of which illustrates a view of streets near a user s home. Over time the user will likely travel along most of not all of the roads shown. There can be specific portions of these roads however that are traveled more often at similar times or with similar endpoints. For example there is a route illustrated on the map that the user might normally take in one direction in the morning on most weekdays and in the opposite direction in the evening on most weekdays. Using such information a number of things might be inferred for the user. First it could be inferred that this path is likely a commute route. The device can attempt to identify paths that are frequency taken by a user for example and can store these paths as specific routes or other such data collections for the user. Second if the position of the user during the night or for another extended period of time is typically at or near position it can be inferred that position likely corresponds to the user s home. Any location where the user often or regularly spends at least a minimum amount of time can be stored as a dwell location or similar piece of information which the device can use as discussed later herein to predict destinations routes and other types of information. Similarly it can be inferred that position corresponds to the location of the user s daily activity be it a workplace school or other such location.

Based at least on this information at least one device system application service or other such entity hereinafter device for purposes of simplicity could determine information for this route and store information to be used in inferring user action and or related information. For example the device might be able to infer that if tomorrow is a weekday based upon calendar information stored by the device it is likely that the user will follow the commute route from position to position within a specific time frame in the morning and from position to position in the evening. If there is a sufficient amount of data the device also can predict how long it will take the user to complete the route in each direction at each time of day. For example the device might determine the commute time each day over a period of days such as the last week or last month and take an average or other combination of those commute times. The commute times can also be broken down more granularly such as by direction day of the week time of day and other such factors.

Further information about the current direction and speed of the user along a route at a current time can be used to update the prediction of an arrival time for the user. For example if there is traffic along a particular stretch of road and the user is moving slower than usual the device can analyze the differences in speed and or progress with respect to prior commute data and predict an updated estimate of the time of arrival. The device also can use other information such as traffic information available from an appropriate service to predict the time of arrival. If the device communicates with a logically centralized system or service e.g. a service available over a network which collects information for multiple users information for users further along the route also can be aggregated and analyzed to make more accurate predictions of the arrival time.

In at least some embodiments the device can use similar information to determine the arrival time along alternate routes. These routes could be alternate routes that the user has previously taken or other routes determined by a navigation application or other such source. The system or service could look at any available information including historical data for the user and or any available real time data to attempt to predict the arrival time if any of these other routes are taken and then suggest alternate routes where those routes would likely be faster.

Over time other routes and dwells can be inferred as well based upon the monitored user location and or other such information. For example consider the example map of . This example includes information for multiple routes or multiple variations of the same route. For example the user might almost always start at dwell position and end up at dwell position on weekday mornings corresponding to the commute route described above. On certain days however the user might take a detour and stop at dwell position before going to dwell position . If the user leave early on those days then on a day when the user leaves early the device can infer that the user is going to stop at dwell position before going on to position . Otherwise the device might infer that the user is going to dwell position if the user turns along the portion of the route that the user takes to get to dwell position .

Similarly the device might determine that the user during certain times of the year stops certain days of the week at dwell position taking a different route to get from dwell position to dwell position . Thus at certain times or based upon the direction from which the user leaves dwell position for example the device can infer that the user is going to stop at dwell position then move on to dwell position along the determined alternate route .

In some cases the device can also utilize other information to assist in determining and or inferring aspects of the user s routes. For example if the device has access to address information such as through an address service or online white pages then the device might be able to determine that dwell location corresponds to a residence dwell location corresponds to a business and dwell location corresponds to a gym. The device can potentially cross reference this or similar information in the user s contacts or electronic address book as may be stored by the device to determine that the residence at dwell position in fact corresponds to the user s home and the business at dwell position corresponds to the user s place of employment. Even though the gym might not be in the user s address book the type of location and information such as the frequency and or duration of visit can help to infer that the user works out at that gym certain days or times of the week.

In dwell position might not correspond to a type of address or be located in the user s contacts. In this example however the user may have entries in the user s calendar that say something such as pick up Junior from practice or football practice over. Based on such information it can be inferred that dwell position corresponds to some type of practice facility or practice field. Further if the device can determine from the calendar or other information who is being picked up at that field in this case Junior then the device can also make assumptions or inferences about the user picking up Junior at certain times.

In some embodiments the device might be in contact directly or indirectly with one of Junior s devices which might also provide position information. By aggregating the data the devices can determine that the user picks up Junior at dwell position and then those users ride together along the alternate route to dwell position . Thus the device might not be able to determine the type of location at dwell position but might be able to identify a certain action that occurs there such as the user picking up Junior at certain times.

In some embodiments the ability for the user s device to communicate with Junior s device allows for some additional functionality. For example Junior can be notified via a communication between the devices that the user is on the way to pick up Junior. Similarly if the user has not left dwell position in time to pick up Junior the device can tell the user to take an alternate transportation option. If the device has monitored Junior s routes the device might know the bus route home or whether Junior can walk home and can make recommendations based on those routes. In some embodiments a device can look at the user s calendar current position route information and other such information to attempt to determine a time of arrival for Junior at dwell position home if Junior waits for the user as opposed to taking one of the alternative route options and can provide recommendations to Junior as to which route would likely get Junior home fastest based on that information.

In this example the locations where a user device is at rest for a minimum period of time can be determined . At rest can mean different things in different embodiments as a user device moving around the interior of a home might be considered to be at rest or otherwise at the same location while in other embodiments the movement of the user device inside the home might also be tracked for movement determination purposes. In some embodiments a device can be considered to be at the same location if the position of the device does not vary by more than a specified distance such as about three feet around the length of an adult arm about ten feet within a single room as determined by the device etc. The minimum time also can vary and or be set by any appropriate entity such as the user a provider or a third party developer. A time window that is too small can result in stops being improperly interpreted as dwells. For example a user stopped at a stop light or sitting in traffic should not have that stop inferred as a dwell. Windows that are too long however can miss certain dwells. For example if a user stops to get gas orders food from a drive thru or performs a similar action that action might not take more than a minute or two but might be desirable to interpret as a dwell. In some embodiments GPS data or similar information can be used to attempt to interpret the action. For example if the user is detected to be stopped on the highway or at an intersection then the information should generally not be interpreted as a dwell in most embodiments. In at least some embodiments there can be specific types of locations that are specifically excluded from being designated as a dwell in order to simplify the determination.

If however the user is detected to be in the vicinity of a potential dwell location such as a restaurant e.g. within the boundaries of the restaurant property then the action might be interpreted as a potential dwell. Similarly the entire time the user is within the bounds of the restaurant property might be considered for dwell purposes even though the user might be moving through the drive thru without stopping for more than thirty seconds or so at a time which might otherwise not register as a dwell. One or more sensors or other components of the device can be used to assist in differentiating various actions such as distinguishing between a short dwell and a pause during a route or determining whether the user is moving around in a mall or stopped at a specific location in the mall. In one example small motions detected by an accelerometer or a gyroscope could note whether the user is substantially at rest making small movements over a small area or continually moving within a store or other such location. Various other determination approaches can be used as well.

When a device is detected to be substantially at rest for a minimum period of time a determination can be made as to whether a rest at that location happens with a minimum frequency or has happened a minimum number of times or with some regularity or meets some other such threshold or criterion. For example if the user stops at that location at least once a week or two Thursdays a month the location might at least meet a minimum frequency criterion. A threshold or other criterion e.g. minimum frequency can be set by any appropriate entity as well such as the user or a provider or developer. If the location at least meets such a criterion that location can be designated as a user dwell for at least a period of time . If the user stops going to that location with the minimum frequency for example that location might be removed as a dwell. If the user does not stop at that location with sufficient frequency for example information for that location such as length of the stop date and time of the stop etc. can be stored for subsequent analysis .

In this example the position information monitored for the user can be analyzed to determine which paths were taken by the user to get to at least some of the dwells over at least a recent period of time . For example the information can be analyzed to determine whether the user frequently follows a similar set of directions to get to the location whether the user frequently leaves the same dwell to get to that location or goes to the same dwell after that location or performs another similar action associated with visiting that location. A path can be a path between two dwells or from a determined point to or from a dwell. For example a user might always turn off a highway at a given exit and take the same path to get to a given dwell but the origination point where the user started the trip might often be different and there might be many times where the user takes that highway but does not take that exit. Thus a path considered for a dwell might be from that highway exit to the dwell.

For paths that are determined for one or more dwells a determination can be made as to whether a path is followed to or from a given dwell or between dwells with at least a minimum frequency percentage of the times the dwell is visited or other such criterion which also can be specified and or modified by any appropriate entity as may be enabled through an interface of the device or other such component. In one example a user might take the same path to work each morning only occasionally going along one of a group of different paths when other tasks are performed. The path typically taken to work might occur with sufficient frequency but the other paths might not even though those paths pass between the same dwells. For each path meeting the threshold or at least one criterion the path can be designated as a route that should be stored for the user with respect to the at least one dwell corresponding to the route . If a path does not at least meet one threshold or criterion information for that path can be stored for subsequent analysis.

It should be understood that in other embodiments routes can be determined before separate from or without dwell determinations. It also should be understood that for the various processes discussed herein there can be additional fewer or alternative steps performed in similar or alternative orders or in parallel within the scope of the various embodiments unless otherwise stated.

In at least some embodiments information associated with the routes and or dwells can be analyzed to attempt to infer various aspects. For example the times of day and or days of the week during which a route or dwell occurs can be analyzed as well as the frequency of those routes and or dwells . For example the user might follow one route every weekday morning another route on Sunday mornings only and another route two days a week where those days might vary week to week . The dwell destination for the weekday route might have a period of about eight hours the Sunday morning dwell a period of less than an hour and the twice weekly dwell about an hour. Based on at least this type of information the device can attempt to infer the type of location of each dwell and or the type of location of each route . For example the weekly dwell might meet criteria that indicate the dwell corresponds to the location of the user s job with the route to that dwell in the morning corresponding to the user s morning commute to work. The Sunday morning dwell and route might meet the criteria for a church or other place of worship. In at least some embodiments such inferences can be presented to the user for confirmation. Once determined and or confirmed the inferred type information can be stored for subsequent use .

For dwells such as the twice weekly dwell the times and frequencies might not meet certain criteria or other factors for being able to infer a type of route with an acceptable level of certainty. For example the dwell could be a gym restaurant or grocery store a place where the user picks someone up or any of a number of other such possibilities. In such instances the device can attempt to utilize other information to assist in the inference determination. For example the user might have information in a calendar or address book that corresponds to the time and or location of a dwell. In some embodiments the device can access address or yellow page information to attempt to associate a type of location e.g. a store restaurant or club with the position of the dwell. In still other embodiments the device might attempt to communicate with other devices while at that location to attempt to determine if other devices have information indicative of the type of location. Various other types of information can be used as well.

Once a set of routes and or dwells has been determined the device can attempt to infer information about user activity based on information such as the movement of the user. illustrates an example map including dwell information that can be used to used to infer upcoming actions or intentions of the user. As can be seen various destinations have been identified as indicated by icons for the user s home gym and user s place of employment . In various embodiments routes might have been determined that indicate that the user typically leaves for work around 7 30 a.m. on normal work days and around 6 30 a.m. if the user is first going to the gym. If a user device monitoring position information determines that the user is leaving the house around 6 30 on one of the days that the user usually goes to the gym it can be inferred that the user is going along the route to the gym . The timing in this example can provide an inference with a first level of confidence. When the user begins following at least an initial portion of the route towards either the gym or work such as by making a right turn out of the driveway it can be inferred more strongly that the user is going to the gym e.g. with a second level of confidence . When the user actually turns onto the portion of the route that corresponds directly to the gym it can be strongly inferred that the user is going to the gym e.g. with a third level of confidence . It should be understood that levels of confidence are merely examples and that various certainties thresholds percentages and other such approaches can be used as well in various embodiments. Some approaches also might make the inference based on any single factor or combination of these factors and may only use a single inference determination. For example if the user leaves around 6 30 a.m. and heads along the route towards the gym or the device might make a single inference determination at the appropriate time.

Being able to make such inferences enables a device or a system or service in communication with that device to offer a variety of functions to the user. For example if the device infers that the user is going to the gym and the device knows that the user normally works out for at forty five minutes at the gym the drive to work takes at least fifteen minutes and the user has an appointment in an hour the device might recommend to the user that the user skip the gym or shorten the workout in order to make the meeting. In some embodiments the device can send an update to other devices such as a device for a spouse or assistant notifying that the user is stopping at the gym on the way to work and providing an estimated time of arrival at work. In other embodiments the device can push back the meeting by sending a communication to a scheduling application system or service in order to ensure the user has enough time to both work out and make the meeting. In some embodiments the device can notify the user when the user must complete an activity here finish working out in order to make the appointment. Various other options can be used as well.

In some embodiments where the device has access to traffic information the device might determine that there is an accident or construction along the normal route to the gym and might direct the user to take a different route. If the vehicle has an automatic navigation system the device can cause the route to be adjusted automatically if enabled by the user and if so configured can cause the vehicle to automatically follow the new route or at least prompt the user or an operator of the vehicle to follow the new route. In some embodiments where the device can determine before starting a route that the commute will be longer the device can notify the user that the user should leave earlier. The device also can provide alternatives before the user begins a route. For example if the device determines that the user does likely not have enough time to both go to the gym and make a meeting the device can suggest that the user skip the gym or move the meeting. In some cases the device can enable the user to make alternative arrangements as well such as by opening the calendar for the user or providing a number to dial an assistant or colleague etc.

In addition to inferring destinations arrival times and other such information a device can also select or determine other types of information based upon location information for one or more devices for one or more users. For example a user might always get together with two other people for lunch on Fridays or there might be an entry on the user s calendar that the user is having lunch with those two people. In some embodiments the device can perform various tasks based at least in part upon the location of each of those people. For example illustrates an example situation wherein there are three people at three different locations. User and user are stationary and user is traveling eastbound on First Street. In some embodiments the device might determine restaurants where the users typically meet restaurants that each of the users has previously visited restaurants that meet each user s preferences or any other appropriate locations. From these selections the device can filter out any locations where any of the users will be unable to reach by the scheduled time based on current location traffic and other such information. In some embodiments the device might select the restaurant that is closest to all three users such as restaurant instead of restaurant or that can be reached most quickly by all three users. The device can take other factors into account as well. For example if it would be slightly quicker for the users to meet at restaurant but those users met there last time the device might instead suggest restaurant . Various other considerations can be utilized as well. In some embodiments the users might be presented with one or more options which the users approve or vote on etc. When a restaurant is selected the calendar for each user can be updated and reservations or arrangements made as necessary.

The example computing device also includes a microphone or other audio capture device capable of capturing audio data such as words or commands spoken by a user of the device. In this example a microphone is placed on the same side of the device as the display screen such that the microphone will typically be better able to capture words spoken by a user of the device. In at least some embodiments the microphone can be a directional microphone that captures sound information from substantially directly in front of the device and picks up only a limited amount of sound from other directions which can help to better capture words spoken by a primary user of the device.

The example computing device also includes at least one position and or orientation determining element . Such an element can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation determining element also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . A location determining element also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more communication elements not shown such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also will include at least one orientation movement and or location determination mechanism . As discussed such a mechanism can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

The processor also can execute one or more applications on the device to convey information to the user receive instructions and provide other such functionality. For example illustrates an example device wherein there is a message presented to the user via a display element on the device. In this example the device has determined that the user will likely be unable to make the scheduled workout appointment due to adjacent meetings current location speed and heading of the user or other such information. In this example the device displays an option to the user using an approach as discussed above and enables the user to select an appropriate option.

Such an approach can be used to provide a variety of services for the user. For example the device can suggest the best route to take to work or return home based on time of day and day of week. The device can ask to reschedule meetings where the attendees are determined to be unable to make the meeting on time due to their current location. If users are determined to be near each other the device can provide a notification and ask if the user would like to meet up with the other user. If there are places that a user needs to go that are determined to be along the inferred route the device can prompt the user to stop at that location if the user will have enough time based on current conditions. Various other services can be provided as well.

For example referring back to a parent might typically stop by a practice field to pick up a child on the way home from work . In some embodiments the user device can be in communication with the child s device to determine whether the child is at the practice field before the user leaves work. If the child is not at the field the user device can notify the user that the user does not need to pick up the child. If along the route to the field the child leaves the field as determined based on the location of the child s device a notification can be sent to the user device indicating that the child is no longer at the field and can provide current location information and if possible known or inferred information about the destination of the child. Similarly if the user does not leave work on time or if there is traffic that will cause the user to be late to the field the user device can cause the child to be notified via the child device that the user will be unable to reach the field at the normal time and in some embodiments can provide an estimated time of arrival. For example consider the device in . In this example a notification is generated on a display element of a child s user device . The notification indicates to the child that the parent is running late and indicates that the parent will not be able to arrive for about twenty four minutes. In this example the device also analyzes one or more alternatives as discussed above and suggests an option to the child. In this example the bus will be leaving soon and will get the child home sooner than if the child waits for the parent so the device recommends that the child take the bus. Such a determination can take into account various other factors as well such as whether the parent will be able to get home sooner as well by not having to pick up the child. If the child is detected to take the bus a user device can notify the parent of the change and can suggest an alternate route to take to get home quickly from the current location. An updated time of arrival can also be sent to a spouse or other person indicating when the parent and or child will arrive home. Various other options can be provided as well.

A user device also can work with various other types of data to make suggestions based on various inferences. For example the device can access a user s to do list a shopping list an inventory count or other such information to determine any of a number of different tasks that a user might want to perform. Based on information such as a user s inferred route and time until the user s next activity a user device might suggest certain actions to the user. For example if the user is likely driving home from work and will pass by the cleaners which has shirts to be picked up and the user will have time to pick up those shirts the device might recommend to the user to pick up the shirts on the way home from work. Such notification can be sent before the user leaves along the route or at any other appropriate time. The device also can look at calendar or other information to proactively place information on the user s calendar. For example if the user has to go to the bank and on a certain day the user will pass by that bank between appointments with sufficient time the user device can add a recommended task to the calendar to stop at the bank. In some embodiments this task can be in a different color or font or otherwise designated such that the user will know that the device placed that task on the calendar as a recommendation.

In another example the user might have received an email message or text message from a family member indicating that the member needs something. If the device determines based on an inferred route that the user will drive by a store that has that item in stock or can make a small detour to go by such a store and the user has sufficient time the device can suggest that the user go to that store and pick up the item. In some embodiments the device will only suggest a store or other location that the user has visited previously while in other embodiments the device can suggest any appropriate store etc.

A device can also monitor user behavior along a route and use that information to make certain recommendations or inferences as well. For example if a user always calls the user s spouse when the user leaves work the device might prompt the user to call the spouse when the user leaves work or even automatically dial the spouse. In some cases the device might ask the user if the device should automatically notify the spouse whenever the user leaves work. If the user always calls at a certain point along the route for example the device can prompt the user at that time or make the call at that time. The device can consider other information as well such as the direction of travel time of day point of origination day of the week etc.

A device can also proactively schedule and or reschedule certain tasks for a user. For example a user might visit a relative two days a week in the afternoons but the exact time and date might not matter. In at least some embodiments the device can proactively place times on the schedule for the user to visit which might correspond to the times the user is most likely to go based upon historical information and the user s schedule for a given week. If a meeting comes up that conflicts with one of these times the device can automatically move the visit time to the next logical time and date. In some embodiments tasks can be given priorities or other such ratings such that the device can know which meetings or tasks to move for others. In some cases these priorities will be specified by the user while in other embodiments the priorities can be inferred based upon which types of meetings or tasks the user moves cancels etc. A user can setup a rule implicitly or explicitly such as the user requiring two visits a week unless otherwise indicated by the user. Thus if there is only one time left in a week for the second visit the device might determine that the scheduled visit cannot be moved or at least cannot be moved for anything other than critical tasks etc. Further the device can use information such as average route time current location scheduled location and other such information to determine whether the user will have enough time at the scheduled time or if the schedule should be adjusted to allow the appropriate amount of time for each task.

A device can also perform other tasks proactively. For example the user can specify an option that directs the device to make sure the user periodically meets with various business contacts. Thus the device can monitor how long it has been since the user met with a particular contact and can potentially prompt the user to setup a meeting. If the device can access the other person s device calendar etc. the device can potentially setup a lunch or other such meeting. Using approaches discussed above devices for the user and the other attendees of the meeting can agree on a restaurant or other location based on position schedule timing and other such information. If a user indicates that the user wants to see a play or musical act the device can periodically check for tickets and if tickets become available that match certain criteria e.g. within a specified distance within a certain price range etc. as may be implicitly specified or inferred then the device can purchase tickets and place the event on the user s calendar. Various other such actions can be performed proactively as well.

In addition to types of information obtained as discussed above devices in accordance with various embodiments can record or obtain information about anything happening around or associated with the user that can help to infer certain types of information. For example a device can record and analyze sound around the user to attempt to determine particular types of information. For example the device could analyze sound to attempt to determine if the user is in a car on a boat or on a plane. The device also could analyze sound to attempt to determine via voice recognition or a similar process which other people are interacting with the user. If the device has at least one image capture element e.g. a video camera the device can also attempt to determine the location surrounding persons and other such information using image analysis or other such approaches. In one embodiment a device might store information that a user is to inform another person and when the device detects that other person the device can prompt the user to convey that information or can automatically convey to that person s device. If a device detects a user in a certain type of location such as in a music store at the mall the device can notify the user if the user had previously indicated interest in a certain type of musical item. Visual and audio information can be beneficial in locations such as a mall where the device might not be able to determine the type of store or location the user is in based upon GPS data as the GPS data might not be accurate inside and or the GPS information might correspond to the mall but not the location of the actual stores particularly for multi level structures.

In some cases stores or other locations might be configured to emit signals that might not be perceptible to a human but that might be detectable by a user device. These can be for example audio signals of a certain frequency IR signals or other signals that the user cannot detect. Thus a device might be able to obtain information about a current location by receiving and analyzing these signals. Coded signals can be used to convey other information to the device as well such as sale information recommended products coupons etc. In some embodiments the device might have an RFID detector that can infer the type of location based upon the types of RFID tags that are detected nearby. Various other types of input can be used as well.

It should be understood that routes and dwells also can include places where the user walks jogs etc. For example if the user walks to a corner coffee shop each day at a certain time to get coffee the device can infer that the user will do that again on any given day. If the user orders the same drink which the device can determine the device can place an order for that drink near the appropriate time or when the user starts walking along the inferred route to the coffee shop etc. If the systems are tied in the device also can cause the drink to be paid for using an account or credit card such that the user can simply walk into the shop and pick up the drink. If the device detects a co worker at the coffee shop the device can contact another device for that co worker and prompt the co worker to pick up and bring back the coffee. If the user typically goes to coffee with other people the device can contact those other people when it is near the time to go for coffee or when the user starts taking the route etc.

In some cases where the user allows such information also can be shared with various other entities such as developers marketers corporations etc. The information can be individual information information aggregated with other user information information devoid of personally identifying information etc. For example a company might be able to determine how far users are willing to drive to go to a particular store. A company also can track how often users visit certain locations and various other types of information. In some cases inferences for a user can be determined based at least in part upon similar actions taken by or inferences made for other users.

Devices also can infer how often users wish to be prompted for certain types of information or have various other actions taken. Certain users will like to be notified more often than others and devices can attempt to learn and or infer these preferences over time based on user actions such as how often a user likely looks at a notification based on accelerometer data or other such information how often a user requests to not be reminded again for certain information etc. Based on which recommendations the user follows the device also can infer some importance for different types of actions for that user.

Being able to infer routes and destinations also can enable such information to be shared for social networking purposes. For example if a device infers that a user is going to a particular store or restaurant and the user is willing to share such information the device could share that the user is heading to that location and might even include a purpose. For example the device could cause a status update to be posted to a social networking site such as Joe is on his way to dinner at Jonny s Diner. If some of Joe s friends are detected near Jonny s and their schedule allows the device might cause prompts to be sent to those friends to join Jonny at the restaurant.

As discussed much of this functionality can be configured by the user. For example illustrates an example interface wherein a user is presented with a variety of configurable options . In this example the options are presented as drop down boxes but it should be understood that any other appropriate elements such as radio buttons checkboxes text boxes or other such interface elements can be used as well within the scope of the various embodiments. In the example options displayed a user is able to specify selections for the device such as always having position monitoring active not sharing information with third parties prompting the user before making changes to the user s schedule etc. Various other options can be specified as well as discussed and suggested herein.

Further as discussed above much of this functionality can be pushed off into the cloud or otherwise performed by a system or service remote from a user device. For example the device could determine position information and send that information over a network to an inference service which can analyze information for that user to attempt to determine routes dwells and other such information. User calendar information might also be provided by a service which can work with the inference service to adjust the user s schedule and perform other such functions. As discussed various user devices can also communicate and work together to perform various functionality as discussed herein.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

