---

title: Systems and methods for emerging litigation risk identification
abstract: A computer-implemented method, by a computer having a computer processor, of identifying emerging risks of agents causing harms to a particular system comprises accessing, via a computer network, an electronic document database comprising document data; inputting a set of criteria, which includes a selected set of agents and a selected set of harms to a particular system, specified by a user; extracting a subset of the document data that satisfies the set of criteria; generating, with the processor, an array containing agent-harm coincidences from the extracted subset of the document data; assessing, with the processor, statistical significance of each agent-harm coincidence relative to other agent-harm coincidences; compiling, with the processor, risk data, based on the statistical significance, of agents of the selected set of agents causing harms of the selected set of harms to the particular system; and outputting the risk data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671102&OS=08671102&RS=08671102
owner: The Rand Corporation
number: 08671102
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100421
---
This application claims priority from Provisional Application U.S. Application 61 171 763 filed Apr. 22 2009 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Various embodiments relate to a computer implemented method by a computer having a computer processor and a storage medium of identifying emerging risks of one or more agents causing one or more harms to a particular system. The method may include but is not limited to any one or combination of i accessing via a computer network an electronic document database comprising document data ii inputting a set of criteria specified by a user the set of criteria comprising a selected set of agents and a selected set of harms to a particular system iii extracting a subset of the document data from the electronic document database that satisfies the set of criteria iv generating with the computer processor an array based on the subset of document data extracted from the electronic document database the array containing agent harm coincidences from the extracted subset of the document data v assessing with the computer processor statistical significance of each agent harm coincidence of the array relative to other agent harm coincidences in the array vi compiling with the computer processor risk data of one or more agents of the selected set of agents causing one or more harms of the selected set of harms to the particular system the risk data based on the statistical significances of the agent harm coincidences in the array and vii outputting the risk data.

Various embodiments are directed toward helping insurance companies writing commercial liability insurance assess their exposure to the risk of mass litigation. A mass litigation episode is the occurrence of a large number of lawsuits alleging liability for harm that have a correlated or common fact basis. At the center of a mass litigation episode is a litagion agent.

Throughout various embodiments a litagion agent is a material substance product service or practice that is a common denominator in a mass litigation episode. In various embodiments the common denominator may be the element of a mass litigation episode that creates correlation across losses in an insurer s underwriting portfolio. Asbestos is the canonical example of a litagion agent. The association of asbestos with mesothelioma asbestosis and other health conditions has led to litigation against a large number of insured businesses that spans a wide variety of industries. Applying limits on insurance policies is insufficient to protect insurers from losses that encompass a significant portion of their underwriting portfolio. However a litagion agent need not be a material or substance. A business service or practice might also be a litagion agent. For example sub prime lending practices options backdating laddering in Initial Public Offerings and or the like are all common denominators of mass litigation and therefore litagion agents.

The latency inherent in the risk posed by a given litagion agent is a reason why it can generate correlated losses within an insurer s underwriting portfolio. In the asbestos example exposure to asbestos causes mesothelioma and the realization of associated symptoms typically occurs many years following the exposure. As a result an insurer s exposure to asbestos liability risk accumulated for many years prior to the realization of the harm. The accumulation involves the potential activation of multiple policy years as injured parties are exposed in different years for multiple years.

Latency takes other forms as well. For example the realization of a harm may occur proximately to litagion agent exposure but the understanding that the litagion agent causes harm may emerge many years later. Likewise even when it is well understood that the litagion agent causes the harm e.g. physical harm caused by firearms legal principles for establishing liability may evolve slowly. Regardless of the source latency may allow exposure to the litagion agent to accumulate without the knowledge of the insurer.

Various embodiments record information relevant to evaluating the likelihood that a candidate litagion agent will result in mass litigation. In particular the evolution of academic literatures can provide an early warning mechanism for mass litigation exposure. In particular embodiments progress of scientific inquiry in several dimensions including toxicology epidemiology and medicine as well as related research in business and law may be monitored. The monitoring may be targeted to identify and track litagion agents and related legal principles. This approach is facilitated by the recent migration of academic publishing from paper form to online databases.

The universe of candidate litagion agents numbers in the tens if not hundreds of thousands. Thus various embodiments may be directed to defining the universe of candidate litagion agents and prioritizing them. In some embodiments the universe of candidate litagion agents may be further categorically limited to a set of candidate litagion agents. In particular embodiments identification may mean the process of prioritizing the list of candidate litagion agents for further analysis. In some embodiments prioritization may allow development implementation and maintenance resources to be allocated in a cost effective manner.

Various embodiments may provide relevant information on candidate litagion agents long before claims are made. This may facilitate the tracking of exposures as they accumulate over time on occurrence trigger policies the majority of commercial general liability in the United States and across the portfolio at a point in time for claims made and occurrence based policies. Throughout various embodiments the identification and prioritization methods may be accomplished through automated data collection from authoritative sources and the application of well defined rules and algorithms.

Insurance companies track mass litigation risks in an ad hoc manner that generally only allow insurance companies to track mass litigation risks that have already emerged and for which significant exposures have already accumulated. Accordingly various embodiments are directed to methods and systems of defining a vast array of potential mass litigation risks both well known and obscure and prioritizing those risks for further study. Various embodiments may allow for the use of the evolution of the scientific literature as an early warning system for mass litigation risks.

Thus in various embodiments the universe of candidate litagion agents may be categorized and defined authoritative sources for lists of such litagion agents may be identified and data driven methods for prioritizing the resulting list of candidate litagion agents according to objective criteria may be developed to transform clusters of research e.g. academic literature into a statistically significant list of litagion agent harm pairs.

Various embodiments include program products comprising computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or local server e.g. in . By way of example such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above are also to be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data that cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

In addition to a system various embodiments are described in the general context of methods and or processes which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including computer executable instructions such as program code executed by computers in networked environments. It should be noted that the terms method and process may be synonymous unless otherwise noted. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

In some embodiments the method s and or system s discussed throughout may be operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers e.g. in having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices . In various embodiments data may be stored either in repositories and synchronized with a central warehouse optimized for queries and or for reporting or stored centrally in a database e.g. dual use database and or the like.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a conventional computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a storage medium such as a solid state storage device and or a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

Software and Web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the words component or module as used herein is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs.

In step S e.g. candidate litagion agents and or harms may be defined. In step S a list or set such as a candidate litagion agent list may be created or otherwise developed containing names and or other identifiers of candidate litagion agents.

Throughout various embodiments the universe of candidate litagion agents may be classified in a plurality of ways. In some embodiments the process S may include a classification scheme that lends itself to identifying authoritative lists of candidate litagion agents. For example in some embodiments the classification scheme may divide litagion agents into four categories i Chemical substances ii Biological agents iii Radiation and iv Products. Other embodiments may employ a classification scheme dividing candidate litagion agents into any number of categories including 1 category and or may include categories that include but are not limited to some or all of the exemplary categories discussed.

With respect to chemical substances in various embodiments they may be defined as but not limited to any organic or inorganic substance of a particular molecular identity including i any combination of such substances occurring in whole or in part as a result of a chemical reaction or occurring in nature and ii any element or uncombined radical for example as defined by the Toxic Substances Control Act TSCA . Alternative embodiments may employ a different definition for a chemical substance.

Various embodiments may include chemical substances that are deliberately or inherently incorporated into commercially available products e.g. asbestos incorporated in insulation or chemical substances that are generated in the course of manufacturing or using a commercially available product e.g. sulfur dioxide generated in the course of burning coal for electricity .

In various embodiments the candidate litagion agent list may be based on but not limited to on the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory list or TSCA Inventory . In some embodiments identifiers such as the Chemical Abstract Service CAS for the candidate litagion agents of the TSCA Inventory candidate litagion agent list may be provided. Other common identifiers may include the substance common name given by NLM s MeSH Index ChemIDPlus or the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC .

In further embodiments the candidate litagion agent list may be based on one or more other lists that cover materials or substances. These other lists may be combined with or used in alternative of the TSCA Inventory to define the universe of candidate litagion agents. In yet further embodiments identifiers such as the CAS of the candidate litagion agents of each list may be used e.g. merged with that of the other list s .

Accordingly in various embodiments the candidate litagion agent list may include but is not limited to chemical substances pesticides food additives dietary supplements color additives cosmetics over the counter ingredients environmental pollutants substances that have been evaluated for carcinogenic or risk or reproductive harm naturally occurring chemical substances e.g. alcohol tobacco latex caffeine fatty acids human growth hormone etc. biological agents ionizing and or non ionizing radiation emerging technologies and or consumer products.

Some non limiting examples of lists may include those based on Pesticide Product Information System PPIS the Everything Added to Food in the United States EAFUS Inventory the Food Contact Substances Inventory maintained by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey NHANES California s Proposition 65 lists maintained by the Center for Disease Control CDC NLM NIH the World Health Organization WHO OECD and or the like.

Through various embodiments employing multiple candidate litagion agent lists as discussed above the resulting list of candidate litagion agents may be large and may likely contain duplicate substances. Thus in some embodiments in step S the resulting list may be revised. For instance the resulting list may be reduced to eliminate duplicates by cross referencing CAS numbers or other identifiers such as common name of each item in the list to remove similar entries collecting synonyms and or the like. In further embodiments this may include identifying CAS numbers or other identifier where possible and or working to clean the chemical names by identifying common name usage for substances for which there exists no CAS number or other identifier . Then for example the most common usage name can be associated to each unique CAS number or other identifier for example according to the NLM ChemIDplus Lite system or the like. In some embodiments the candidate litagion agents within the candidate litagion agent list may be prioritized in some defined manner as described in this disclosure.

With reference to in step S a harm list may be created containing various human harms. Further embodiments may employ a harm taxonomy comprising a plurality of categories which may contain a hierarchy of sub categories. Such embodiments may allow for reducing the number of possible harms into a smaller number of categories thus reducing search effort and combining related diseases. Various embodiments may adapt taxonomy schemes already used by authoritative sources such the National Library of Medicine s taxonomy of human harms and or the like. In other embodiments the harm list need not be limited to human harms but may include but is not limited to financial injury environmental injury and or the like.

Chemical substances or other candidate litagion agents for instance can harm the human body in myriad ways and thus a suitable taxonomy of such harms may be employed in some embodiments. In particular embodiments to create the taxonomy a list of human systems may be created. The human system list for example may be developed using a classification scheme from the Medical Subject Headings MeSH system. In further embodiments the human body can be categorized into a plurality of systems. For example the human body may be categorized into distinct systems such as but not limited to musculoskeletal digestive respiratory urogenital endocrine cardiovascular nervous sensory stomatognathic hemic and immune embryonic and or integumentary. Other embodiments may include other categories such as tissue organ and or the like. Various embodiments may employ classification schemes such as MeSH or other suitable classification scheme that classifies subcomponents of each of these systems into a list of targets and associated target harms . In particular embodiments a list of target harms may be derived from for example but is not limited MeSH the NLM s Haz Map database NTP s Summary of Target Organs Karolinska Institute s list of Specific Diseases and Disorders and or the like. It should be noted that harm taxonomies are not limited to the human body but may be created in similar fashion for other areas such as the environment finance etc.

In further embodiments in step S the resulting list of target harm pairs may be reviewed and or revised. For instance target harm pairs that were non sensible may be dropped redundancies may be eliminated some target harm pairs may be further described additional target harm pairs may be added e.g. on an ad hoc basis .

Throughout various embodiments the harm list may include a list of target harm pairs for example as previously described. In other embodiments the harm list may be created in any suitable manner for example on an ad hoc basis as a pre established harm list e.g. one based on Karolinska Institute s list of Specific Diseases and Disorders in a similar manner as the candidate litagion agent list e.g. was created and or the like.

With reference to in step S relevant documents or information may be identified from a document corpus based on the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list . Thus various embodiments may employ a document corpus database and a search mechanism search engine by which to search the document corpus . In some embodiments the document corpus may be PubMed RePorter the world wide web and or the like. Further non limiting examples include Google Scholar MSN Health and or the like. In some embodiments the search mechanism may be PubMed s search engine or other search engine e.g. a search engine associated with the document corpus .

In various embodiments the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list e.g. harm taxonomy may be queried against the document corpus using the search mechanism . For instance in some embodiments identifying the relevant documents e.g. step S may comprise any one or combination of the following. In step S the candidate litagion agent list may be inputted into for example via the search mechanism or otherwise applied to a knowledge base or database e.g. document corpus such as PubMed to identify relevant documents e.g. publications within the database that match or otherwise relate to a term of or associated with the candidate litagion agent list . In particular embodiments a number of the relevant documents may be identified.

In step S the harm list may be inputted into for example via the search mechanism or otherwise applied to the database to identify relevant documents within the database that match or otherwise relate to a term of or associated with the harm list . In particular embodiments a number of the relevant documents may be identified. It should be noted that these steps i.e. steps S and S and or any other steps may be performed substantially simultaneously in any order repeated and or omitted.

In particular embodiments by querying both the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list against the database relevant documents within the database may be identified that match or otherwise relate to a term from or associated with each of the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list . In particular embodiments a number refer to of the relevant documents may be identified.

Once the lists are inputted the server and or local server may be configured to query the database using the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list . In particular embodiments the server and or local server may be configured to query the database automatically to update query results at regular intervals.

In step S a list of one or more query extension terms e.g. or filters may be inputted or otherwise applied to the candidate litagion agent list and or the harm list . In addition or in the alternative the query term extensions list may be inputted or otherwise applied when one or more of the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list are inputted into the search mechanism or with e.g. before after or during analyzing of the data e.g. S described later . That is the query extension terms list may be applied at any point and or any number of times during the process S.

For example using a PubMed search a query extension term such as but not limited to tox sb may be used to identify academic articles that deal with a broad range of toxicology issues and the like. The query extension terms may allow for refining a search and or to remove certain material. For example a query extension term such as drug therapy sh may be used to filter results where the document discusses that the litagion agent may be therapeutic. Various other filtering methods may be employed to filter results. For example certain terms may be targeted only to certain portions of articles such as but not limited to the abstract or particular types of articles. While further embodiments may employ additional search terms for example risk or the like may be used to filter results that do not contain the term risk. 

In some embodiments in step S search terms such as terms provided in the candidate litagion agent list harm list query extension term list and or the like entered into the search engine may be processed for example to include synonyms remove redundancies match keywords and so on. For instance search terms entered into the PubMed search engine may be automatically processed by the NLM s Entrez PubMed database. Entrez PubMed rewrites user queries to comply with MeSH terminology and add synonyms as necessary. In some embodiments the search terms may be revised.

In some embodiments query terms may also be searched via keyword matching. In further embodiments any search term that PubMed or other search engine cannot term match either in MeSH and or as a keyword may be eliminated from the query. By deriving a list from MeSH or similar system the probability that the harm terms are all recognized by PubMed or other search engine may be increased.

In various embodiments some substances such as chemical substances may be referred to in a variety of ways. Accordingly in some embodiments multiple identifiers may be used or otherwise inputted. For example in a case where PubMed is the database a chemical substance may be inputted by its common name for example as defined by MeSH ChemIDplus Lite or the like and or its unique CAS number or other identifier .

In step S relevant data e.g. relevant documents as identified in step S may be extracted or otherwise retrieved from the database . In further embodiments the relevant data may be transmitted to the local server or computer or other server. In particular embodiments software may be used to retrieve the relevant data which may comprise publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers from the database for example based on the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list . For instance the software may use the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list and any query extension terms as its inputs and may then enter those search terms into the search engine for searching the database and return relevant publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers . Thus in various embodiments the publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers that are relevant and thus returned are those publications that include at least one term from each of the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list or meet other defined criteria . It should be noted that the identification and retrieval of relevant publication steps e.g. including but not limited to steps S and S and or any other steps may be performed substantially simultaneously in any order repeated and or omitted.

In some embodiments in a case where a unique index ID or other identifier is available for the publications the ID e.g. for each some or all of the relevant publications may be retrieved e.g. downloaded to the local server or the like corresponding to a query for each candidate litagion agent of the candidate litagion agent list and each harm of the harm list respectively. Thus in various embodiments the IDs that are relevant and thus returned are the IDs of those publications that include at least one term from the candidate litagion agent list and the IDs of those publications that include at least one term from the harm list . In further embodiments the publication counts e.g. in corresponding to a particular candidate litagion agent and harm may be obtained by taking intersections of the corresponding ID sets locally e.g. on the local server associated computer terminal and or the like . In general regular set operations may be used to obtain various subsets of counts for compound harms and or litagion agents.

As discussed the relevant data which may comprise relevant publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers may be retrieved or otherwise downloaded to a repository such as but not limited to the local server or the like. Accordingly in step S the query results or relevant data from querying i.e. identification and retrieval steps e.g. steps S and S may be analyzed. For instance the local server or other associated computer medium may be configured to analyze the query results . Analyzing the query results may comprise any one or combination of the following.

In step S a contingency table or array e.g. two dimensional array may be created based on the query results . In particular embodiments the local server or other associated computer medium may be configured to transform the query results or relevant data e.g. the retrieved publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers into the representative two dimensional array in . Each cell within the array may correspond to a litagion agent harm pair.

For example in a cell corresponding to the pair i.e. where the pair crosses one another of the candidate litagion agent AQ and the harm cancer lists a publication count totaling . In this example the process S refer to has identified and or retrieved a count of 15 007 publications which may correspond to the number of publications in which both the terms AQ and cancer were identified.

With reference to as previously discussed in other embodiments the search results e.g. relevant publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers need not be downloaded or otherwise transmitted to the local server computer or the like. In such embodiments for example the query results may be processed e.g. transformed into an array on the remote server or other computing medium .

Thus in various embodiments an array or a contingency table of hypotheses may be generated based on but not limited to inputting some or all of a candidate litagion agent list a harm list and a query extension term list into a document corpus via a search mechanism . Throughout various embodiments any or all the steps discussed in this disclosure may be performed in real time or as otherwise required.

Alternatively or in addition separate queries of the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list may be performed to download the relevant publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers to the local server or the like. Once on the local server the relevant publications or portions thereof publication counts and or identification codes or other identifiers may be crossed in an array e.g. for example as described in this disclosure. Because the candidate litagion agent results and the harm results are being processed locally such embodiments may reduce processing time and burden.

In various embodiments instead of a pure aggregation of all publications collected from PubMed or other document corpus the count of each cell in the contingency table may be constructed according a number of different parameters. For example in some embodiments the average citation half life in published scientific and academic journals as reported by Thompson Reuters may be used to weigh those documents from recent years more heavily than documents published years or decades ago.

According to various embodiments each unique document retrieved from PubMed by the querying mechanism may be time stamped with the year or other suitable period it is published. If there were N citations that reference both AQ and cancer in some embodiments and for example this number can therefore be broken down as follows 

where current.year is the current PubMed indexing year which is always one year prior to the current calendar year 1948 is the first year PubMed indexes publications and Nis the number of publications referring to both AQ and cancer published in the iyear. Then the attenuated count which incorporates citation half life could be computed as follows.

According to this methodology the contingency table itself can be interpreted as times sheets as shown for example in . This manner of representing the aggregate contingency table as multiple contingency tables sliced by year may also allow for time slicing and the computation of the First Year Salient metric as will be described .

In some embodiments prioritization of litagion agents can be derived from the attenuated contingency table produced by replacing the aggregate count N in each cell with the attenuated count C.

As previously discussed prioritization can be based on the evolution or signal of the scientific literature which can provide an early warning system for litagion agents. In particular embodiments an assumption may be made that a given litagion agent poses a relatively high risk of mass litigation if the scientific community appears to be relatively interested in the hypothesis that the litagion agent could cause human harm at relevant exposure levels. In some embodiments statistical significance within array may be referred to as scientific saliency or simply as saliency. Thus in some embodiments scientific saliency may be an approach to identify the emergence of scientific literature related to a litagion agent. Therefore in various embodiments scientific saliency may be employed to prioritize among candidate litagion agents.

With reference to in step S the query results may be prioritized for example to identify litagion agents that warrant attention e.g. additional research . Such litagion agents may be an emerging risk as discussed in this disclosure. In various embodiments prioritizing e.g. step S may comprise applying a scientific saliency algorithm to the array e.g. to the litagion agent harm pairs step S .

For instance the algorithm may be applied to the array or otherwise applied to the search results by the local server or other computer medium to search for litagion agent harm pairs that are statistically significant i.e. salient within the array . For example the algorithm may be used to search for a divergence of candidate litagion agent harm pairs from statistical independence. Accordingly a list of litagion agents that are statistically significant within the array may be prepared S . In addition or in the alternative the list may contain statistically significant litagion agent harm pairs.

Thus in various embodiments data may be collected from clusters of research e.g. database such as academic literature processed by a computer medium and transformed by a computer medium e.g. local server into a list of statistically significant litagion agents e.g. list that may be used to identify emerging risks. Such embodiments or portions thereof may be carried out using a local server e.g. local server an associated computer terminal and or the like. As noted the clusters of research may be a signal or the like representative of academic research or trend thereof that can be processed and transformed by a computing device to prepare a list of statistically significant litagion agents that may be used to identify emerging risks. In particular embodiments in step S the prioritized list may be weighted or scored based on varying criteria. For example agent harm pairs discussed in recent documents may be weighted more than those discussed in older documents. In such embodiments for example the scored list may be used to prepare the list .

Throughout various embodiments scientific saliency is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition. Other additional or alternative methods may be employed to identify materials and substances such as novelty discussed below and or the like. In some embodiments one or more filters and or prioritization steps may be applied to the list of salient candidate litagion agents to capture for instance but not limited to greater social loss relevance to insurance coverage exposure and or the like.

In general scientific saliency may be measured for any candidate litagion agent. However in some embodiments it makes little sense to measure scientific saliency for candidate litagion agents that are known to be harmful e.g. or that are to known to have been extensively studied e.g. electromagnetic frequency . Consequently in such embodiments such candidate litagion agents are not prioritized based on scientific saliency. However it should be noted that various other embodiments may measure scientific saliency for litagion agents that are known to be harmful and or that are known to have been substantially studied.

With respect to ligation agent harm pairs scientific saliency is a statistic that measures the relative frequency that a particular litagion agent harm search term e.g. asbestos and mesothelioma occurs in the scientific literature. Heuristically the more frequently a given litagion agent harm pair occurs in the scientific literature relative to other litagion agent harm pairs the more salient the hypothesis that the litagion agent causes the harm. The frequency of documents in which a given litagion agent harm pair occurs is a signal indication and or the like. A saliency algorithm may be employed to evaluate the strength of the signal relative to all candidate litagion agent harm pairs. Accordingly this signal may be used to identify emerging risks.

In various embodiments scientific saliency may not measure the strength of the evidence linking a litagion agent and harm. That is in such embodiments greater scientific saliency does not necessarily correspond to greater certainty that a given litagion agent causes a given harm. Instead in such embodiments the assumption or hypothesis is that scientific saliency measures scientific interest. Scientific interest in turn is a function of the plausibility of the link between the litagion agent and the harm and the potential for humans to be exposed to the litagion agent at meaningful levels. Thus in some embodiments it may be assumed that all else equal scientists will be less interested in investigating the link between a litagion agent and harm if there is no reasonable expectation that humans could be exposed to the litagion agent or if there are other reasons to believe that by its very nature the litagion agent is likely to be benign.

In various embodiments one or more algorithms as will be set forth may be employed to measure the saliency of a litagion agent harm pair for example that is part of an array . Assume a list of N litagion agents l and M harms h. The i j entry of the contingency table is the number of documents in the corpus recorded by querying land h via the search mechanism. For example if l bisphenol a h breast cancer the corpus is PubMed www.pubmed.org and the search mechanism is PubMed s online search engine then the i j entry is 121 which is the number of articles according to the PubMed search engine containing the terms bisphenol a and breast cancer. e.g. accessed at 5 00 p.m. PST on Mar. 17 2010 .

If the litagion agents and harms were not associated in the table then the entries would correspond to statistical independence. Thus in some embodiments the contingency table data may be analyzed to determine which l h pairs are most salient in the sense that they are statistically farthest away in the positive direction from the hypothesis of independence within the context of this table. Let X l h be the observed document frequency entered in the i j th cell of the contingency table. Let X Xbe the total number of documents in the table containing the term land X Xbe the total number of documents in the table containing the term h. Let m E X be the expected value of the i j entry given some distribution of X. Conditional on the total count of entries in the contingency table it can be shown that the Xare distributed multinominally with mean m.

In further embodiments the salient cells litagion agent harm pairs must be identified in the contingency table. For this reason assume there is a benchmark against which comparisons need to be made and identify the hypotheses that are significant departures from that benchmark. As previously mentioned one benchmark is statistical independence but the benchmark need not be so limited.

Suppose a set of estimated values for mis circumflex over m . Denote the standard deviation of X circumflex over m by s. Then under appropriate regularity conditions there is 3.1 

as the standardized residuals which are approximately normal. In some embodiments though the z s will be correlated given that M and N are large the correlations will be small and so the correlations may be disregarded or corrected by using the concept similar to approximations based on approximating degrees of freedom.

Let Z denote the standard normal variable with mean 0 and standard deviation 1 and let z denote the corresponding cumulative distribution function. Let p 1 z Pr Z z be the p value corresponding to Z the probability of observing an event as extreme as z under the Normal distribution . It can be shown that under the benchmark theory p s corresponding to Z s in 3.1 are independent and uniformly distributed on 0 1 . Given this result the hypothesis of independence of a given litagion agent harm pair at some significance level can be tested by comparing the observed p value with the significance level.

In various embodiments this statistical test may require some modification in order to account for the fact a very large number of hypotheses possibly numbering in the millions is being tested. Even though the probability of a particular litagion agent harm pair being declared salient could be very small given the large number of hypotheses a large number could nonetheless be declared statistically significant potentially resulting in a large number of false positives. Thus in some embodiments a generalization of this algorithm proposed by Dalal and Mallows 1992 which guarantees that the false positive rate does not exceed some pre specified level among all pairs may be employed.For complete details see S. R. Dalal C. L. Mallows 2 TAAP No. 3 752 765 1992 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Let p be the ordered p values in decreasing order k 1 . . . MN corresponding to z. Let c k 1 2 . . . K be a monotonically decreasing sequence between 0 1 as prescribed in Dalal and Mallows 1992 . Now let k be the largest integer between 1 and MN such that p c p c . . . p c and 

In some embodiments the c s may be computed following Dalal and Mallows 1992 . The exact algorithm is an iterative solution to a sequence of difference equations where the number of terms in the difference equations increases with the total number of pairs. Specifically it is shown that the c s are solutions to 1 2 1 3.2 

For any given n this is an approximation that is found to be quite good even for small n. For example for 0.1 the approximation yield c s within 10for n 4. Various optimality properties of this procedure are proven in Dalal and Mallows 1992 . Further they show that the asymptotic probability of one or more false positive is 1 .

In further embodiments this can be used to improve the power thereby reducing the number of false negatives.

In further embodiments a benchmarking hypothesis may be proposed. Specifically one useful benchmark may be that litagion agents and harms are independent. Under the independence null hypothesis H 3.4 

is the standardized Pearson Residual which is approximately normally distributed under the independence hypothesis.In various embodiments these renormalized Z s may be used. Again the Z s are correlated but the correlations are small since they are similar to multinomial probabilities for large number of classes. In further embodiments the theory developed so far may be applied to compute p values and the corresponding method for identifying salient cells. See AA CDA81 2d ed. 2002 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

In various embodiments a time stamp of PubMed publications or documents from another corpus or database may allow saliency to be computed historically. For example the contingency table may be separated as a series of time sheets as discussed for example with respect to the attenuation function. For instance these time stamped contingency table sheets can be aggregated from 1948 to any year after 1948 including the current calendar year. Moreover attenuation could be applied to any aggregation subset.

If N again refers to number of PubMed citations that reference both a particular candidate litagion agent say AQ and a specific harm say cancer and Nis the number of all such citations from the iyear 1949

For any time sliced year earlier than the current calendar year the attenuation function can be applied according to the same construction as in the attenuation section by replacing current.year with t.s.year and by re defining Aas

Accordingly in various embodiments time slicing facilitates the definition of an important metric first year salient or FYS. Given any salient L H pair FYS is the earliest t.s.year so that L His salient against CT. This definition is well defined for all salient L H pairs. Among a variety of potential uses the FYS metric may be used to verify the saliency model and framework by comparing FYS to regulatory listing dates e.g. Proposition 65 s list date important dates in the context of litigation or insurance claims. The predictive power of the saliency machinery could be measured against these or other performance criteria. Moreover in some embodiments FYS could be used as a measure of emergence in the context of saliency.

In further embodiments measuring scientific saliency can be further refined. For instance in some embodiments the candidate litagion agent list the harm list and or the list of query expansion terms and or uses thereof may be further defined as needed for example as discussed in this disclosure. Some embodiments can include differential weighting of publications so that for instance review studies carry greater or lesser weight than the underlying documents or studies with higher impact scores have greater weight.

In further embodiments the most statistically salient litagion agent harm pairs may be removed or otherwise ignored. In yet further embodiments a method star dimming may be applied. In star dimming the algorithm may be re run to search for the litagion agent harm pairs that are the next most statistically salient. Such embodiments may allow for example for disregarding known litagion agent harm pairs e.g. asbestos mesothelioma while identifying statistically salient litagion agent harm pairs that are not as well known. Thus in some embodiments some viable in terms of for example identifying emerging risks litagion agent harm pairs may emerge after running the algorithm for multiple iterations.

In various embodiments various corpora in addition to or in the alternative to PubMed or the like may be queried depending on the risk involved. For example corpora directed to financial injuries environmental injuries medical proposals as opposed to medical publications as previously described product failures and or the like may be queried.

In various embodiments one or more corpora may be queried and or have their respective collected data combined for example in a virtual database. The results may be processed e.g. combined by the algorithm for example in a manner previously described. For instance in some embodiments the candidate litagion agent list and the harm list may be input into each of a first database e.g. and a second database not shown . In such embodiments for example litagion agent harm pairs can be identified using broader corpora.

In some embodiments an alternative or additional document corpus may be employed such as for example Research Portfolio Online Reporting Tools RePorter which is an online database of funded NIH grants. NIH funds a large fraction of biomedical research conducted in the United States. The existence of grants investigating novel chemical substances might provide a leading indicator of scientific interest in that chemical substance. Various other embodiments need not be limited to RePorter NIH funded grants and or research done in the United States.

In various embodiments litagion agent and or candidate litagion agent may be defined as follows A substance material or product that causes a bodily injury in those exposed to a commercial product and as a result leads to mass litigation in the United States.

Other embodiments may have different definitions for litagion agents as discussed throughout. For example the litagion agent may not be limited geographically to the United States but may be limited to any particular country or countries region and or the entire world. As another example the litagion agent need not be limited to those that cause bodily injury but may also include financial injury psychological injury environmental damage e.g. from hurricanes consumer products etc. property damage and or the like.

Yet as another example the litagion agent need not be limited to mass litigations and or commercial products but may also include claims and or the like and various services practices and or the like respectively. Thus in various embodiments the litagion agent may be defined as narrowly or broadly as required.

In various embodiments the litigation agent definition may include some or all of but not limited to the following considerations i Business practices that indirectly and or directly cause bodily injury ii Litagion agents that cause financial injury which may include or exclude litagion agents that cause financial injury because of bodily injury iii Litagion agents that cause property damage and iv Litagion agents that cause environmental damage which may include or exclude litagion agents that cause one or both of environmental damage e.g. harm to fish and wildlife and bodily injury e.g. injury due to consumption of contaminated fish and wildlife . In further embodiments the litagion agent may include or exclude prescription pharmaceuticals and or Class III medical devices as defined by the Food Drug and Administration FDA may be categorically excluded.

In various embodiments the agent list and the harm list may be inputted into the search mechanism. In other embodiments one of the lists e.g. the agent list may be inputted into the search mechanism to retrieve results or associated data that contain for example at least one item of the inputted list to a local server or the like . Then the other list e.g. harm list may be queried at the local server against the retrieved results to obtain results that contain for example at least one item of the other list. Accordingly the obtained results would contain for example at least one item from each of the lists.

With reference to and in step S a candidate litagion agent list and a harm list step S may be defined for example as described above. For instance in step S the list of candidate litagion agents may include 15 candidate litagions including asbestos bisphenol A carbon nanotubes anthraquinone triclosan acrylamide and electromagnetic field neutral red benzene nitrosoanatabine 4 tert butylbenzoyl 2 hydroxy 1 naphthaldeyde hydrazone mannitol methanol 4 biphenylamine and 2 4 5 trichlorophenoxyacetic acid.

Next in step S the list of harms may include 15 harms including biliary bones and joints breast cognitive connective tissue ear endocrine eye gastrointestinal other heart condition hematologic immune liver liver cancer and lung. In some embodiments as in this example each of the candidate litagion agents and or harms may be or may include an identifier e.g. CAS number or the like.

In step S the lists may be used to identify documents exploring relationships between any one or more litagion agents of the candidate litagion agent list and any one or more harms of the harm list . For instance in steps S and S a computer or local server may input each of the lists to a remote server . For example the remote server may include a document database such as PubMed or other online document corpus and a search engine for inputting the lists and for searching for documents within PubMed that includes in the abstract title or keywords any one or more litagion agents of the candidate litagion agent list and any one or more harms of the harm list e.g. documents that contain both terms . Optionally in step S query terms e.g. query term list may be input in the search engine to refine the search for instance to focus the query on documents that explore a causal relationship between the candidate litagion agent and the harm.

Then in step S the search results may be retrieved and transmitted to the local server . The search results may be for example a count for each instance a document explores a causal relationship between any one or more litagion agents of the candidate litagion agent list and any one or more harms of the harm list e.g. document contains both terms in addition to satisfying the query extensions . The search results may be raw counts of publications or may also be attenuated to reduce the weight of older documents in the counts.

In step S the computer or local server e.g. via an associated computer processor or the like may analyze the search results . For instance in step S the computer may be used to create an array of the lists based on the search results as shown for example in . In each cell of the array contains an attenuated number of agent harm coincidences i.e. documents that explore a relationship between any one or more litagion agents of the candidate litagion agent list and any one or more harms of the harm list . For example for the agent asbestos 1045.11 documents discuss a relationship with the harm lung and 0.7 documents discuss a relationship with harm to the ear which includes hearing .

Then in step S the data within the array may be assessed for statistical significance. In particular in step S the computer or local server may apply the algorithm discussed to assess the statistical significant of each agent harm coincidence also called agent harm pair relative to other agent harm coincidences for example as shown in Table 1.

Applying the algorithm to the data in the array a list of 58 litagion agent pairs is reported. These litagion agent pairs are more statistically significant relative to the other cells of the array and therefore are salient. The salient litagion agent harm pairs in include asbestos associated with lung disease lung cancer and gastrointestinal disease. It includes anthraquinone associated with liver disease. This list may be stored by the computer or local server and or outputted. As discussed the list can then be used for example by insurance companies to prioritize their risks.

In some embodiments before being outputted this list may be further prioritized for example based on statistical significance e.g. the most statistically significant agent harm coincidences prioritized higher less statistically significant agent harms . For example the asbestos lung cancer may be atop the list and the next most significant litagion agent represented by bisphenol A and reproductive harm.

In addition in some embodiments the algorithm may be re run as many times as necessary. For example a link between bisphenol A and reproductive harm may be well known in the academic community though not in some other user communities and therefore a list that prioritizes this relationship at the top may not provide any new information. In such a case such results can be removed or otherwise disregarded to obtain a new list of statistically significant agent harm coincidences that are not as well known in the academic community or other communities.

The embodiments disclosed herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the embodiments described above. Various modifications and changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is indicated by the attached claims rather than the embodiments. Various modifications and changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be within the scope of the invention.

