---

title: Autonomous grain combine control system
abstract: A system for controlling a grain combine having a rotor/cylinder, a sieve, a fan, a concave, a feeder, a header, an engine, and a control system. The feeder of the grain combine is engaged and the header is lowered. A separator loss target, engine load target, and a sieve loss target are selected. Grain is harvested with the lowered header passing the grain through the engaged feeder. Separator loss, sieve loss, engine load and ground speed of the grain combine are continuously monitored during the harvesting. If the monitored separator loss exceeds the selected separator loss target, the speed of the rotor/cylinder, the concave setting, the engine load target, or a combination thereof is adjusted. If the monitored sieve loss exceeds the selected sieve loss target, the speed of the fan, the size of the sieve openings, or the engine load target is adjusted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08469784&OS=08469784&RS=08469784
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08469784
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100416
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 991D13727 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Bechtel BWXT Idaho LLC.

The goal of agricultural production is to maximize profit. A major way to do this is to minimize production cost. There are many factors that influence production cost such as agricultural output employee cost and energy costs. Throughout the years agricultural output has been maximized using factors such as the amount of water received by the growing crop the amount and type of fertilizer provided to the crop the amount and type of herbicides and pesticides applied to the crop etc. However employee cost arising from employee time and energy costs have been difficult to balance.

Traditionally harvesting was performed by an experienced operator often having a personal stake in the productivity of the harvest. However given the decline of traditional family owned and operated farms and the rise of outsourced harvesting there has been a large decrease in the level of experience of the operators harvesting crops. In many of these situations hired help is paid per acre. This leaves the operator with little incentive to maximize harvesting output or to minimize crop loss or energy consumption. Sadly this leads to suboptimal harvesting and therefore wasted crops wasted energy or both.

For example a grain combine is used to extract grain from a field separating out the grain from the rest of the crop. As the grain combine moves through a grain field the header cuts in the case of small grains or picks in the case of corn the crop as the grain combine passes through the field. The crop is then fed from the header into a separator. In the separator the crop rubs between a rotor cylinder and a concave in order to separate the grain from the remainder of the crop the material other than grain MOG . The grain that is separated from the crop along with fines generated from the separator is transferred to the cleaning system and the remaining plant residue is directed to the rear of the grain combine for discharge. The biomass residue mixed with the grain in the cleaning system is referred to as MOG. The cleaning system typically consists of one or more sieves and a cleaning fan. The separated grain is cleaned by passing it over one or more sieves while a fan blows up through or across the sieves separating the lighter MOG from the more dense grain. At this point the grain falls through the sieves and is moved to the grain tank and the MOG is expelled out the back of the grain combine.

During the operation of the grain combine there are various adjustments the operator can make to optimize the harvesting process. For example the operator may control the ground speed size of the sieve openings the speed of said fan the concave setting the gap between the concave and the rotor cylinder rotor cylinder speed etc. A skilled operator may have some success optimizing some of these adjustments settings based on their experience and through trial and error. However an unskilled operator or even a skilled operator operating a grain combine in an unfamiliar field or unfamiliar conditions such as plant density or moisture is ill equipped to properly adjust these grain combine operating conditions. Furthermore as the optimal adjustments will vary even within the same crop across a field the operator must be able to dynamically adjust settings during a harvest. In many cases due to the complexity and interaction of such adjustments only the ground speed is altered if the operator determines that excess crop is being lost. Additionally even if the operator could account for all of the changes during harvesting constantly changing all of these adjustments would overly distract the operator from his primary concerns for proper grain combine operation and safety.

Therefore there is a need to automatically adjust as well as monitor the systems and methods that operate within a grain combine such that the product yield is maximized.

A system for controlling a grain combine having a rotor cylinder a sieve a fan a concave a feeder a header an engine and a control system. The system has two main functions a grain loss control and a feed rate control function. The purpose of the grain loss control is to control grain loss to a specified limit by adjusting components of the combine separator and cleaning systems. The function of the feed rate control is to control combine ground speed to maintain optimum performance of the combine as crop conditions and field conditions vary.

The grain loss an aggregate of separator loss and sieve loss control is described as follows The feeder of the grain combine is engaged and the header is lowered. A separator loss target engine load target and a sieve loss target are selected. Grain is harvested with the lowered header passing the grain through the engaged feeder. Separator loss sieve loss engine load and ground speed of the grain combine are continuously monitored during the harvesting. If the monitored separator loss exceeds the selected separator loss target the speed of the rotor cylinder the concave setting the engine load target or a combination thereof is adjusted. If the monitored sieve loss exceeds the selected sieve loss target the speed of the fan the size of the sieve openings or a combination thereof is incrementally adjusted to improve cleaning system performance and reduce sieve loss. If these adjustments are unsuccessful in reducing sieve loss below the sieve loss target then the engine load target is reduced to reduce the speed of the grain combine.

The feed rate control is described as follows A combine engine load target is selected. Combine ground speed control is transferred from the operator to the control system. Combine engine power is continuously monitored preferably every second and ground speed is adjusted to control the mass feed rate of the crop entering the combine header to maintain the engine load target. The feed rate control contains several variants that are activated in specific circumstances.

A system for controlling a grain combine comprising a control system. The grain combine comprising a rotor cylinder a sieve a fan a concave a feeder a header and an engine. The system has two main functions a grain loss control and biomass feed rate control. The purpose of the grain loss control is to control grain loss to a preselected limit by adjusting components of the combine separator and cleaning systems. The feed rate control is to control combine ground speed in order to maintain optimum performance of the combine as crop conditions and field conditions vary.

The grain loss an aggregate of separator loss and sieve loss control is described as follows The feeder of the combine is engaged and the header is lowered. A separator loss target engine load target and a sieve loss target are selected. Grain is harvested with the lowered header passing the grain through the engaged feeder. Separator loss sieve loss engine load and ground speed of the combine are continuously monitored during the harvesting. If the monitored separator loss exceeds the selected separator loss target the speed of the rotor cylinder the concave setting the engine load target or a combination thereof is adjusted. If the monitored sieve loss exceeds the selected sieve loss target the speed of the fan the size of the sieve openings or a combination thereof is incrementally adjusted to improve cleaning system performance and reduce sieve loss. If these adjustments are unsuccessful in reducing sieve loss below the sieve loss target then the engine load target is reduced to reduce the speed of the combine.

The feed rate control is described as follows A combine engine load target is selected. Combine ground speed control is transferred from the operator to the control system. The combine engine power is continuously monitored preferably every second and ground speed is adjusted to control the biomass feed rate of the crop entering the header to maintain the engine load target. The feed rate control contains several variants that are activated in specific circumstances. These variants are described in the next two paragraphs.

In a preferred embodiment a headlands routine is implemented when an operator raises the header. In this mode any ground speed adjustments in the optimization routines are temporarily suspended while the header is raised. Preferably when in the headlands routine the control system learns the operators preferred ground speed while the header is up and automatically adjusts the combine to the operator s preferred ground speed in future headlands operations. This routine is preferred as it will automatically suspend feed rate control and maintain autonomous control while turning the combine through the headlands.

In a preferred embodiment an unloading routine is implemented when the unload tube on the combine is extended in an outward position. In this mode any ground speed adjustments in the optimization routines are temporarily suspended while the unload auger is engaged. Once the unload auger is disengaged normal control system operations resume. This routine is preferred as it will keep the combine at a constant ground speed thereby allowing a grain cart to easily follow along side by matching the combine s constant ground speed during unloading.

The grain combine is a vehicle that comprises a rotor cylinder a sieve a fan a concave a feeder a header and an engine. and depict a preferred embodiment of a combine. The header is any means of extracting grain from a field. A header may be of two main types. A platform header is used in small grains wheat barley soybeans oats rice etc. to cut the standing crop. A corn header is used specifically for corn to pick the ears from the standing crop. The header then transfers the crop via an auger or conveyor to the feeder.

The feeder then moves the grain off the header and into the separator comprising the rotor cylinder and the concave. If the rotor cylinder is a cylinder it rotates perpendicular to the traveling direction of the combine during harvesting. However if the rotor cylinder is a rotor it rotates parallel to the traveling direction of the combine during harvesting. The rotor cylinder rotates against a concave which causes a rubbing action which threshes grain passing along the rotor cylinder. For clarity a single rotor cylinder is discussed although any number of rotors cylinders may be used. Preferably the combine has one or two rotors or a single cylinder. The rotor cylinder speed the rotational speed of the rotor cylinder is preferably controlled by a control system to optimize grain harvest. Various means may be used to control the speed of the rotor cylinder for example the engine speed may be changed however variable coupling systems such as a variable transmission or any belt chain or gear based system capable of altering the ratio of turns from the engine coupling to the rotor cylinder may be used.

The concave has a plurality of openings which preferably are manually adjustable. The concave setting the gap between the concave and the rotor cylinder is adjustable and allows threshed grain to pass through. The distance between the concave and the rotor cylinder is referred to as the concave setting and is preferably adjusted by a control system whereby the control system can automatically adjust the concave setting. Various means may be used to adjust the concave setting for example one or more motors hydraulic cylinders servo motors or any other mechanical control means may be used to adjust the concave setting.

The threshed grain is then cleaned by the combine cleaning system that comprises a fan and sieves. Preferably the fan is used to separate the grain e.g. corn rice wheat barely sorghum millets oats rye buckwheat etc. from the material other than grain MOG e.g. chaff straw stalk etc. . The fan speed is preferably optimized by a control system whereby a significant portion of the MOG is blown out the back of the combine or alternately moved to a different machine that collects processes and or transports the MOG. Various means may be used to control the speed of the fan for example the engine speed may be changed however variable coupling systems such as a variable transmission or any belt chain or gear based system capable of altering the ratio of turns from the engine coupling to the fan may be used.

Preferably the grain falls through the sieves and is moved into the clean grain tank. Preferably the size of the sieve openings is optimized by a control system whereby a substantial portion of the grain is allowed to pass through the sieve openings while a substantial portion of the MOG is not allowed to pass through the sieve openings. Various means may be used to adjust the sieve openings for example one or more motors hydraulic cylinders servo motors or any other mechanical control means may be used to adjust the sieve openings. Preferably an upper sieve and a lower sieve are used as shown in and each sieve is independently optimized by the control system.

The engine of the combine is any engine capable of operating the combine and preferably all the various components rotor cylinder fan drive train etc. . Preferably the engine is a diesel bio fuel or gasoline engine. Alternately an electric motor driven combine may also be used powered by various means for example battery or fuel cells.

The control system is a device that is capable of controlling ground speed rotor cylinder speed fan speed the size of the sieve openings and the concave setting. Preferably the control system is an electronic device. In a preferred embodiment a computer an ASIC application specific integrated circuit a microcontroller or a combination thereof are used to control the system. The control system is in communication with a means for adjusting the engine speed the rotor cylinder speed the fan speed the sieve openings and the concave setting preferably via a bus serial or parallel data connection or wirelessly. In a preferred embodiment the control system is connected to an existing CAN controller area network bus of a combine. Preferably the control system has memory storage capable of storing a loop count program pointer as well as various registers and an arithmetic control unit capable of performing register addition subtraction multiplication division etc. Preferably flash memory hard disk or other storage media is used to store a computer program performing the various calculations and controls to optimize combine operations. In one embodiment a series of lights CRT or LCD for example may be used to display information to the operator.

A control system was constructed using LabView on a Microsoft Windows based industrial computer which connected to the CAN bus of a standard combine. Preferably the control system would be embedded in an integrated circuit board and resides in the on board combine computer or reside in a dedicated solid state computer. Preferably the separator loss sieve loss and engine load are monitored at least once every second. The timing the of rotor loss or sieve loss routines is preferably optimized depending on the response to the machinery adjustments e.g. rotor speed fan speed sieve opening etc. .

The separator loss target engine load target and sieve loss target are targets selected by an operator manufacturer mechanic other personnel or a combination thereof preferably selected before operation. In one embodiment the targets separator loss target engine load target sieve loss target are selectable by the operator of the combine via an interface connected to the control system. For example keys switches dials may be used to select the desired target. Preferably a keyboard and a screen e.g. LCD CRT LED arrays etc. are used by the user to determine the existing target settings and select new target settings. In a preferred embodiment a touch screen is used by the user to determine the existing target settings and select new target settings.

Preferably the separator loss target is a numeric representing the maximum acceptable amount of grain leaving the separator at the end of the rotor cylinder. This numeric is assumed to be a predictor of grain that did not separate out and was discharged and lost with the MOG. Preferably the separator loss target represents grain counted by a piezoelectric sensor or grain counted by a spectral reflectance sensor or any other means of sensing the grain over a given time period. For example in one embodiment the separator loss target is 20 impacts on a piezoelectric sensor per second.

Preferably the sieve loss target is a numeric representing the maximum acceptable amount of grain leaving the rear of the sieves and lost with the MOG. Preferably the sieve loss target relates to grain impacts counted by a piezoelectric sensor or grain counted by a spectral reflectance sensor or any other means of sensing the grain. For example in one embodiment the sieve loss target is 20 impacts on a piezoelectric sensor per second.

Preferably the engine load target is a percentage the maximum engine load whereby 100 is the maximum engine load under normal operating conditions. In a preferred embodiment the engine load target starts at about 85 percent of total engine load under normal operating conditions and is later optimized by the control system.

In step if the separator loss is not greater than the separator loss target then a determination is made as to whether the sieve loss is greater than the sieve loss target in step . In step if the sieve loss is greater than the sieve loss target then the system moves to step where the fan speed size of the sieve openings engine load target or a combination thereof are adjusted preferably using the process shown in . After step the system returns to step . In step if the sieve loss is not greater than the sieve loss target then the system returns to step .

In the embodiment shown in the system has the steps described in with the addition of step and step which implement an optimizing routine. In step if the sieve loss is not greater than the sieve loss target instead of returning to step as done in the embodiment shown in the system runs through step . In step if the separator loss is less than the separator loss target and the sieve loss is less than the sieve loss target for more than a predetermined amount of time then the engine load target is increased by a predetermined amount of engine load increase and then the system returns to step . Preferably the predetermined amount of time is one consecutive minute and the predetermined amount of engine load increase is a 5 increase in the existing engine load target. In step if the separator loss is not less than the separator loss target or the sieve loss is not less than the sieve loss target for more than a predetermined amount of time then the system returns to step .

A loop count is any variable e.g. memory disk storage register value that at least has an initialized state and an uninitialized state. Preferably the loop count is simply an integer stored value that is initialized at zero and subsequently incremented after each iteration through the loop. Other embodiments may be used for example decrementing a loop count variable initializing at a value other than zero or a combination thereof.

After step the rotor cylinder speed is recorded in step . Then the rotor cylinder speed is increased in step . Then a determination is made in step as to whether there was a decrease in separator loss after a predetermined time period preferably about 15 seconds. In step if there was a decrease in separator loss the loop count is incremented in step and the system returns to step where the rotor cylinder speed is recorded.

In step if there was not a decrease in separator loss then in step the rotor cylinder is set to the speed of the previous rotor cylinder speed recorded in step . Then in step if the loop count is not its initialized value preferably if the loop count is greater than zero then the system moves to step . In step if the separator loss is less than the separator loss target then the system returns in step to the main control e.g. . However in step if the separator loss is not less than the separator loss target then the system moves to step where the concave is adjusted preferably using the embodiment shown in .

In step if the loop count is in its initialized value preferably if the loop count is zero then the system moves to step . The rotor cylinder speed is recorded in step . Then the rotor cylinder speed is decreased in step . Then a determination is made in step as to whether there was a decrease in separator loss after a predetermined time period preferably about 15 seconds. In step if there was a decrease in separator loss the loop count is incremented in step and the system returns to step where the rotor cylinder speed is recorded.

In step if there was not a decrease in separator loss then in step the rotor cylinder is set to the speed of the previous rotor cylinder speed recorded in step . Then in step if the loop count is not its initialized value preferably if the loop count is greater than zero then the system moves to step . However in step if the loop count is its initialized value preferably if the loop is still zero then the system preferably moves to a system for adjusting the concave in step e.g. the system shown in .

In step if there was not a decrease in separator loss then in step the concave setting is set to the previously recorded concave setting recorded in step . Then in step if the loop count is not its initialized value preferably if the loop count is greater than zero then the system moves to step . In step if the separator loss is less than the separator loss target then the system moves to step where it returns to the main control e.g. step in . However in step if the separator loss is not less than the separator loss target then the system moves to step where the engine load target is decreased and after a waiting period in step the system returns to the main control e.g. step in in step .

In step if the loop count is its initialized value preferably if the loop count is zero then the system moves to step where the concave setting is recorded. Once the concave setting is recorded in step the concave setting is decreased in step . Then a determination is made in step as to whether there was a decrease in separator loss after a predetermined time period preferably about 15 seconds. In step if there was a decrease in separator loss the loop count is incremented in step and the system returns to step where the concave setting is recorded.

In step if there was not a decrease in separator loss then in step the concave setting is set to the previously recorded concave setting recorded in step . Then in step if the loop count is not its initialized value preferably if the loop count is greater than zero then the system moves to step . However in step if the loop count is its initialized value preferably if the loop is still zero then the system preferably moves to step where the engine load target is decreased. Then after a wait period in step the system moves to step where it returns to the main control e.g. step in .

In this embodiment the system constantly monitors the returns the return grain and MOG having passed through the concave and upper sieves and over the lower sieve to the end of the cleaning system of the combine. At this point preferably the combine returns the uncleaned grain to the cleaning system. The amount returned is the returns volume preferably monitored as a percentage of the full deflection of a paddle feeder in the returns auger.

In the embodiment shown in control is passed preferably from step in . In step if the returns volume is greater than the high returns volume target then the fan speed is adjusted in step preferably using the system shown in . In step if the returns volume is not greater than the high returns volume target then the system moves to step . Preferably the high returns volume target is 70 deflection . In step if the returns volume is less than a low returns volume target then the upper sieves are adjusted in step preferably using the system as shown in . Preferably the low returns volume target is 30 deflection . In step if the returns volume is not less than the low returns volume target then the fan speed upper sieve and lower sieve are adjusted in step preferably using the system as shown in . Finally after either adjusting the fan speed in step adjusting the fan speed size of the upper sieve openings and size of the lower sieve openings in step or adjusting the size of the upper sieve openings in step control is returned in step preferably to step in .

Then in step if the loop count still has its initialized value the system moves to step where the fan speed is recorded. In step if the loop count does not still have its initialized value the system moves to step where the system returns preferably to step in or .

In step the fan speed is recorded. Then in step the fan speed is decreased. In step if there is a decrease in sieve loss after a predetermined time period the loop count is incremented in step and the system resumes at step . In step if there is not a decrease in sieve loss after a predetermined time period the fan speed is set to the previously recorded fan speed in step .

Then in step if the loop count still has its initialized value the system moves to step where the engine load target is decreased and after a predetermined time period waiting in step the system moves to step where the system preferably returns to step from step in . In step if the loop count does not still have its initialized value the system moves to step where the system preferably returns to step from step in .

In step if the sieve loss is less than the sieve loss target after a predetermined time period the system moves to step . In step if the grain tank sample is of acceptable quality the system moves to step where the system returns preferably to step in or . The grain is of acceptable quality when the operator determines that the grain is of a quality normally accepted in the industry therefore having an acceptable amount of MOG. Preferably an acceptable quality is having less than 10 MOG.

In step if the grain tank sample is not of acceptable quality the system moves to step where the size of the lower sieve openings is decreased. Then after waiting in step a determination is made as to whether the grain tank sample is of acceptable quality in step . In step if the grain sample is of acceptable quality the system moves to step where the system returns preferably to step in or . In step if the grain sample is not of acceptable quality the fan speed is increased in step and after waiting in step the system returns to step . Upon the second instance of step whereby the fan speed is increased the system moves to step where the system returns preferably to step in or .

In step if the returns volume is greater than the high returns volume target then the system continues to step . In step the fan speed size of the upper sieve openings and size of the lower sieve openings are set to their previous settings. Then in step the engine load target is decreased and after waiting in step the system moves to step where the system returns preferably to step in or .

If there was not a decrease in sieve loss after a predetermined time period in step the upper sieve opening size is set to the previous size in step . Then if the loop count was not changed from its initialized value the engine load target is decreased in step and after waiting in step for a period of time the system returns in step preferably back to step in or .

In step if the loop count was changed from its initialized value a determination is made in step as to whether the monitored sieve loss is less than the sieve loss target. In step if the monitored sieve loss is not less than the sieve loss target then the system moves to step where the engine load target is decreased and after waiting in step for a period of time the system returns in step preferably back to step in or .

In step if the monitored sieve loss is less than the sieve loss target then a determination is made as to whether the returns volume is greater than the high returns volume target in step . In step if the returns volume is greater than the returns volume target then the fan speed is adjusted in step preferably using the system shown in . In step if the returns volume is not greater than the returns volume target then the system returns in step preferably back to step in or .

During harvesting it may be desirable for the operator to have the ability to inspect the grain in the grain tank . For example during the process shown in the operator must determine if the grain present in the grain tank is of acceptable quality having an acceptable amount of the grain relative to the MOG . In one embodiment this is simply a viewing window for the operator to look into the grain tank . In another embodiment shown in a sensing device is used to provide grain quality information to the operator in the cab. The sensing device may be a camera that sends an image to the operator for visual inspection or the image may be processed by a control system to automatically determine the quality of the harvested grain in the grain tank. Alternately the sensing device may use characteristics such as spectral reflectivity properties of the harvested grain for differentiating grain and MOG for determination of grain quality. Preferably the determination of grain quality is optimized for each type of grain.

The grain and MOG falls through the concaves onto the grain pan where the grain and MOG proceed through the combine cleaning system. Grain and MOG that does not fall through the concave passes to a rear beater and is expelled out of the combine or into another component of the combine for further processing. A separator loss sensor detects grain that falls through the concave near the end of the rotor. The separator loss sensor is a device sensitive to the grain. In a preferred embodiment the grain is corn and the separator loss sensor is a piezoelectric transducer or other device sensitive to the relatively hard compared to the MOG e.g. chaff corn kernels hitting the separator loss sensor . U.S. Pat. No. 7 367 880 hereby fully incorporated by reference is a preferred separator loss sensor .

In the combine cleaning system the grain and MOG move from the grain pan over a cleaning fan and onto an upper sieve . The grain will pass through the upper sieve onto the lower sieve . A fan blows up through or across the upper sieve and the lower sieve separates much of the lighter MOG while the heavier grain is allowed to fall through both the upper sieve and lower sieve . Once the grain falls through lower sieves it is transported via a grain auger to an elevator and into the grain tank in .

Grain and MOG that does not fall through the upper sieve and the lower sieve will be expelled out the back of the combine or into another component of the combine for further processing and or transport. Before being expelled a sieve loss sensor positioned off the back of the upper sieve detects the presence of grain. The sieve loss sensor is a device sensitive to the grain. In a preferred embodiment the grain is corn and the sieve loss sensor is a piezoelectric transducer or other device sensitive to the relatively hard compared to the MOG e.g. chaff corn kernels hitting the sieve loss sensor .

Grain and MOG that passes through the upper sieve but does not fall through the lower sieve will fall off the end of the lower sieve to a returns auger shown but not numbered in and directed to a returns elevator that returns the grain and MOG to the grain pan . While passing through the returns elevator a returns sensor will determine the returns the amount of grain and MOG returning to the grain pan . The returns sensor is a device sensitive to the mass of material passing through the returns elevator . In a preferred embodiment the returns sensor is a sensor detecting the angular deflection of a paddle on the drive of the returns elevator .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

