---

title: Systems and methods for image archaeology
abstract: Systems and methods are described for determining manipulation history among a plurality of images. The described techniques include selecting a pair of images from the plurality of images, detecting one or more manipulations operable to transform one of the images to the other, and based on the manipulations detected, determining a parent-child relationship between the pair or pairs of images. The described techniques can further include repeating the selecting two images, detecting manipulations, and determining the parent-child relationship for each pairs of images in the plurality of images, constructing a visual migration map for the images, and presenting the visual migration map in a user readable format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849058&OS=08849058&RS=08849058
owner: 
number: 08849058
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100823
---
This application is a continuation of International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US08 040 029 filed Apr. 9 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 043 982 filed Apr. 10 2008. This application hereby incorporates by reference the disclosures of each of the above listed applications in their entireties and claims priority therefrom.

This disclosed subject matter was made with government support under Grant No. 0716203 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the disclosed subject matter.

In modern society artifacts are created and archived at an increasingly growing rate. Specifically the proliferation of the Internet and the continued growth and simplification of web publishing tools has greatly facilitated sharing and publication of ideas and stories online by technologically unsophisticated users. These stories and ideas are frequently enhanced by the inclusion of photographs and images which support the viewpoints and messages of the authors. In many cases through the use of photo editing software the images can become highly manipulated with portions added removed or otherwise altered. These manipulations often not only indicate the usage of the images but also affect the meanings conveyed by the images and reflect the beliefs of the authors. A history of the manipulations over an image can be revealing of the evolution in temperament viewpoint and attitudes of the general public over time.

The challenge of identifying whether or not two images are copies of each other has been addressed in recent research efforts in image near duplicate detection. As the term near would imply these research efforts aim to detect pairs where the duplication may not be exact. Thus the methods of copy identification are robust against a variety of distortions such as cropping scale and overlay. However these detection methods do not specifically address the manipulations that one image has been subjected to arrive at the other images.

Another field image forensics also takes into account of the manipulation for identifying whether or not any manipulations of an image have taken place. Approaches in this field can involve checking the consistency of various regions of the image for artifacts induced by the physics or the peculiarities of the acquisition and compression processes. Such cues can be used to identify the camera used to take a photograph or if two regions of a photograph are derived from separate sources. However again image forensics focus on the evaluation of similarities between two images and are not concerned with detecting the manipulations of images in the context of a plurality of various instances of the same image.

It would be valuable to identify the original image in a collection of related images and desirable to track the usage of the images and their evolution over time and to help design systems that enhance image searching browsing and retrieval using information obtained from such archaeological digs. Therefore there is a need for developing techniques for analyzing related images and determining plausible manipulation history among the images.

Systems and methods for determining the manipulation history among a plurality of images are herein described.

In some embodiments of the described subject matter the described techniques include selecting a first image and a second image from the plurality of images and detecting one or more manipulations that are operable to transform one of the images to the other. Further based on the one or more manipulations detected a parent child relationship between the first image and the second image can be determined. The determined parent child relationship can then be presented in a user readable format.

In certain embodiments the described techniques further include repeating the procedure of selecting two images detecting manipulations and determining the parent child relationship on each pairs of images in the plurality of images constructing a visual migration map for the images and presenting the visual migration map in a user readable format.

In certain embodiments the described techniques include obtaining the plurality of images by manual collection using an Internet search engine or web crawling.

In particular embodiments the described techniques include using a copy detection technique to sort the plurality of images into subsets of images and selecting a pair or pairs of images in the subset of images for further detection of manipulations and determination of parent child relationship s .

In certain embodiments the described techniques include using one or more context independent detectors and then one or more context dependent detectors. The context independent detectors can include a scaling detector and a grayscale detector. The context dependent detectors can include a cropping detector an insertion detector and an overlay detector.

The described techniques can be implemented in a system e.g. a computer apparatus which includes one or more input devices one or more processing devices one or more memory devices and one or more display devices.

The described techniques herein include computer implemented methods for determining the parent child relationship between a pair of images in the context of a plurality of images as well as determining the parent child relationship among all the images in the plurality of images.

In one embodiment the described techniques provide a method for determining manipulation history among a plurality of images. Referring to the method includes selecting a first image and a second image from the plurality of images at detecting one or more manipulations operable to transform one of the selected images to the other image at determining existence of a parent child relationship based on the detection of the manipulations at and presenting the parent child relationship determined in a user readable format at . The described techniques are hereinafter also referred to as Image Archaeology Techniques. 

The Image Archaeology Techniques are based on the observation that many manipulation operations performed on images are directional they either remove information from the image or inject external information into the image. Therefore there are clues about the parent child relationship between images encoded in the image content. Determining the parent child relationship can be broken down into the task of individually detecting each type of manipulation and its directionality. The directions of manipulations are then checked to see if they are in agreement or not. As will be shown below the directionality of many types of editing operations can be detected automatically and plausible visual migration maps VMMs can be constructed for the images. As used herein VMMs are a collection of images or tokens thereof that identify the images together with indications of parent child relationship among the images in the collection.

The observable manipulations on images available on the internet do not exist in a vacuum. Instead many images have a history and context that change over time. It is not the typical case that users are exposed initially to an original version of the image and decide to derive an image directly from the original. Rather users can be exposed to a particular version of the image that is already derivative in some respect. For example the image can be cropped scaled or modified with overlays with respect to the true original image. There is often also text surrounding the image which conveys a story and shapes a user s interpretation of the image. Therefore each image is likely the result of many generations of manipulations and changes in meaning and context.

In a hypothetical VMM of an image is illustrated. The original image is shown at the top and its children are shown as images through various manipulations. The children can be further manipulated to form their own children. This VMM can have a number of characteristics that can be helpful for image exploration or searching including for example the original and highly manipulated images as shown in .

Original versions of images are typically of high resolution contain the largest crop area and are subject to the least manipulations. These versions can be the most relevant for certain image searching tasks. Highly manipulated images are the ones that are many generations away from the original. On one hand there are images which are highly manipulated in terms of simply having information removed through excessive cropping and down scaling which usually do not to enhance or change the meaning conveyed in the original version. On the other hand there are images which are highly manipulated in the sense that they have a great deal of external information overlaid on top of the original image. These can be of more interest to the user since the meanings of the images may have been significantly altered.

The presently described techniques can automatically identify the points along the evolution of the image which can be of particular value to a viewer or a searcher. It is noted that without explicit information from image authors it can be difficult to obtain a true history of image manipulations. Also it is often impossible to obtain every single copy of an image in the world. However by using limited number of certain images collected from available sources the described techniques can yield important insights as to the evolution of an image over time and reveal many important characteristics necessary for building search and browsing applications including identifying the original and highly manipulated images.

The plurality of images can be obtained from a number of sources. For example the images can be collected manually by using an internet search engine or through a program such as a robot designed to crawl and download images from the internet.

After the plurality of images are obtained they can be further sorted into subsets of connected images since some of the techniques for obtaining the images can yield images that are not actually related. For example an Internet search of a person s name through GOOGLE IMAGES search engine can yield photographs of many people having the same name. As used herein a subset of connected images refer to a group of images that are likely derived from a common ancestor image through distinct manipulations.

This sorting of images can be accomplished by various copy detection techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example the techniques described in Hampapur et al. Comparison of sequence matching techniques for video copy detection Conference on Storage and Retrieval for Media Databases pages 194 201 2002 and Zhang et al. Detecting image near duplicate by stochastic attributed relational graph matching with learning In ACM Multimedia 2004 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein can be used.

An exemplary copy detection technique can be implemented as follows. First scale invariant feature transform SIFT descriptors can be extracted for each image. These features capture local geometric properties around interest points within the image. SIFT descriptors are invariant against a number of distortions such as scaling and rotation and robust against a number of other transformations. They are highly distinctive and occurrences of descriptors of a real world point represented across different images can be matched with high precision. Each image has a set of SIFT descriptors I where each descriptor is a tuple of x y f where xand yare the spatial X Y coordinates of the interest point in the image and f is an 128 dimensional SIFT feature vector describing the local geometric appearance surrounding the interest point. Given two images A and B all pairwise point matches are searched between the images. A matching set are detected when the Euclidean distance between the points features D f f falls below a predetermined threshold. Matching points between A and B are then retained in a set M which consists of a set of tuples x y x x marking the locations of the matching points in each image. Then a predetermined threshold is applied on the number of matching points M in order to get a binary copy detection result. The threshold can be determined depending on the sensitivity desired. In some embodiments a threshold of 10 100 can be used. In one embodiment the threshold is selected as 50.

For two images selected from the plurality of images or in a subset thereof containing connected images a determination can be made as to whether one of them has been derived from the other. This can be done by detecting the existence of one or more manipulations between the two images.

 Manipulation as used herein refers to a distinct image altering operation alone or in combination with one or more other operations which is operable to transform one of the two images to the other. For example a manipulation can be an operation performed on an image to alter its size orientation color content as well as an operation that uses the image or a derived image thereof as a subpart of another image. A manipulation can be selected from the various image altering operations such as scaling rotation cropping resizing blurring mirroring color adjustment contrast adjustment mirroring and other various filtering operations that are provided by commercial graphics software e.g. ADOBE PHOTOSHOP . A manipulation can also include converting an image into a different format wherein artifacts can be introduced as a result of the conversion. For example when an uncompressed TIFF image is converted to a JPEG image the compression methods employed by JPEG can result in artifacts not present in the original TIFF image.

A manipulation can include several sub procedures for example a smaller image can be derived by successive cropping of a larger image. However these sub procedures are herein considered herein as one overall operation. For efficiency purpose the detection of manipulations can be preferably performed within subsets of connected images because if the two images are not in the same subset of connected images no manipulations would be detected.

Among the wide variety of manipulations those manipulations implying a directional relationship between the two images are of special interest. For example 

Note that the above list is not exhaustive. They are used only as examples that can potentially change the meaning of the image rather than just the perceptual quality. illustrates the results of these manipulations i.e. scaling cropping grayscale overlay and insertion respectively as applied to an original image

There can be exceptions in the directions of each of these manipulations. It is possible though very atypical to scale images up or remove an overlay with retouching software.

Detecting manipulations can be done directly between two selected images alone when the manipulations themselves clearly indicate directions i.e. which image might have been subjected to the manipulations and which image is likely the resulting image of the manipulations performed on the other image. However for certain types of manipulations the precise directionality cannot be detected with confidence from the selected pair of images alone. Comparing and a person can tell that contains an overlay. A machine however would only be able to discern that the two images differ in the region of the overlay but would not necessarily be able to infer which image contains the original content and which one contains the overlay. By considering all of the images in however the presently described techniques can determine that most images have content similar to in the region of the overlay and thus determine that should be the result of an overlay manipulation performed on

As used herein a technique for detecting a particular manipulation between a pair of images is referred to as the detector for such a manipulation. For example a technique for detecting a scaling manipulation is referred to as a scaling detector. The term context independent detector or context free detector includes a detector wherein the directionality of the manipulations can be determined solely based on the two selected images. Context independent detectors can include but are not limited to a grayscale detector and a scaling detector. The term context dependent detector on the other hand includes a detector wherein manipulations can be detected whereas the directionality of the manipulations cannot be unambiguously determined solely based on the two selected images. However the directionality of these manipulations can be determined in the context of the plurality of images from which the two images are selected. Context dependent detectors can include but are not limited to a cropping detector an insertion detector and an overlay detector.

If the plurality of images have not been sorted into subsets of connected images detecting manipulations between any two images in the plurality of image can start with using a copy detection technique as described above to determine whether the two images belong to the a subset of connected images. This procedure is referred to herein as a copy detector although it is understood that this detector itself does not give cues regarding specific manipulations or their directions. If the two images are determined by a copy detector as not belonging to the same subset of connected images it is not necessary to detect manipulations using other detectors i.e. it can be simply determined that no manipulations exist between the two images otherwise other detectors can then be used to further ascertain what specific manipulations exist between the two images. Therefore it is preferable that the detection of manipulations includes a copy detector in conjunction with other detectors.

According to certain embodiments of the described subject matter detecting one or more manipulations between the two selected images can include using one or more context independent detectors. In one embodiment the context independent detector can be a scaling detector. In one embodiment the scaling detector can be implemented by first employing a copy detection technique as the one described above to generate a set of matching points M. Assuming no image rotation is involved the scaling factor between the two images SF can be estimated directly as the ratio between the spatial ranges of the X Y locations of the matching points 

The same estimate can be computed for the Y dimension to account for disproportionate scaling. A predetermined threshold can be applied to SFfor a binary detection of scaling. The directionality of the scaling manipulation if any is from the larger image to the smaller image.

Another approach for scaling detection can be a random sample consensus approach for example as described in M. Fischler et al. Random sample consensus a paradigm for model fitting with applications to image analysis and automated cartography Communications of the ACM 24 6 381 395 1981 . The random sample consensus approach has been frequently used for image registration in computer vision and remote sensing.

The above estimation in the scaling detector can also be used to normalize the scales and align the positions of the two images. For example a normalized image B image B can be obtained by scaling image B by a factor of SFwhile interpolating pixels of image B by a factor of SF. In addition simple shift operations can be performed to align the interest points and corresponding pixel content of B with A. Such scale normalization and position alignment can be later used to conduct pixel level comparisons to detect the existence of other manipulations between the two images.

In another embodiment the context independent detector can be a grayscale detector or color removal detector . The grayscale detector can start with estimating whether each image is in grayscale. For example an image can be readily determined to be grayscale when it is stored as a grayscale file containing a single channel. There are also grayscale images that are stored in regular three channel files which include but are not limited to RGB and YUV files. For these cases the grayscale detector can utilize the differences between values of each pixel for the different channels for example the red green and blue channels in a RGB file. When the differences are very small i.e. below a predetermined threshold the image can be determined to be grayscale. Otherwise the image can be determined to be in color. Once it is determined whether each of the two images is in color or in grayscale the existence of a grayscale manipulation between the two images can be determined. The directionality of the grayscale manipulation if any is from the color image to the grayscale image. If the two selected images are not previously determined to be in the same subset of connected images using a copy detection technique the grayscale detector can be preferably used in conjunction with a copy detector. In this case if the copy detector determines that the two images are not in the same subset of connected images regardless of a detection of grayscale manipulation no manipulations are considered existent between the two images.

According to some embodiments of the described subject matter detecting one or more manipulations between the two selected images can include using one or more context dependent detectors. As noted above some manipulations such as cropping insertion or overlay cannot be detected with confidence under certain circumstances by looking at the differences between the two selected images alone. To address this problem all of other copies of the image in the same group of connected images can be employed in the following procedure.

Any image Ihas a set of neighbors II which are the images that have been detected as copies of I. These neighbors are also all the images in the group of the connected images to which Ibelongs with the exception of Iitself. Within this set a method can then be used to normalize the scales and offsets between each image in IIand I yielding a scaled shifted version of all the images in II collectively referred to as II such that all of the images in II can be composited on top of each other as well as on top of I with pixel wise correspondences. An example of such a method can be the method described above in connection with the scaling detector.

In some embodiments detecting one or more manipulations between two selected images include first using one or more context independent detectors and then one or more context dependent detectors. Using one or more context independent detectors can further include obtaining the composite image of each of the two images obtaining a residue image for each of the two images based on differences between each of the two images and its corresponding composite image and then determining the one or more manipulations operable to transform one of the two images to the other. If the two images have different image areas after normalization and alignment insertion or cropping manipulations can be detected based on the noise patterns of the non overlapping region of the respective residue images. If the two images have the same image area or an overlapping image area wherein a noise pattern occurs in one of the residue images an overlay manipulation is detected.

After the detection of manipulations between the two images a parent child relationship can be determined to be existent or non existent. If there is no manipulation detected there would exist no parent child relationship between the two images. Otherwise there are several possible scenarios. First if only one manipulation is detected to be existent which is operable to transform one image to the other image then a parent child relationship is determined to be existent the parent being identified as the former image. Second if multiple manipulations are detected to be existent and each of which is operable to transform one image to the other image then a parent child relationship is determined to be existent the parent being identified as the former image. Third if multiple manipulations are detected to be existent but are of different directionality i.e. at least one of the detected manipulations is operable to transform the first image to the second image while at least another of the detected manipulations is operable to transform the second image to the first image then a parent child relationship is determined to be non existent. Note that this last scenario only indicates that the two images are not of linear kinship. They can both still be part of an extended family with a common ancestor. It is also noted that a parent child relationship does not require that one image is the immediate source from which the other is derived. There could be intermediate generations of copies between the two images.

The determined parent child relationship if any can then be presented in any user readable format. For example it can be presented as a directed graph format wherein the two images are represented as nodes and the relationship is represented by an arrow pointing away from the parent image and to the child image. It can also be presented as simple text stating the images involved and the parent relationship found. Any additional information associated with the image can also be presented. The presentation can be made on a monitor printed on paper or on other electronic or physical display means.

In the above only two images are compared and manipulations between them are detected although sometimes the information about the rest of the plurality of images obtained can be utilized when the number of the plurality of images is greater than 2. The procedure of detecting manipulations and determining parent child relationship can be repeated for all other pairs of images in the plurality of images to determine a parent child relationship between them. Then a VMM for the plurality of the images can be constructed wherein the images can be represented as nodes and the parent child relationship can be represented as directed edges between nodes.

Any other suitable user readable formats can also be used as long as they can sufficiently identify each of the images and the parent child relationship among them. The user readable format can include but are not limited to a table tabulating the images or their identifiers with their parents and or children s images or identifiers a matrix showing the images or their identifiers and the relationship between the images a text description of each of the images and its parents children. Any additional information associated with the image can also be presented for example the source where the image is obtained and the text surrounding the image in the source.

Depending upon the nature of the pool of the obtained plurality of images used to conduct this manipulation history detection the VMM s derived can be different. If the pool is heterogeneous for example when the images are drawn from web image search results then several different connected components of different non copied images can be found within the pool. If the pool is rather homogeneous for example when a set of known copies are obtained by manual collection then a single set of connected images can be covering all of the images. In any event for efficiency purpose either an apparent heterogeneous or an apparent homogeneous pool of images can be first subjected to a copy detection technique as described above to sort the images into subsets of connected images and then the pairwise image comparisons can be conducted within each subset of connected images to determine the manipulations and parent child relationships. In the end a VMM for each of the subsets of connected images is obtained. The VMM s can then be presented in a user readable format.

There can be redundancy in the graph structure of each VMM. For example the above described procedures can result in a VMM having a structure shown in because it is plausible for an image to have been derived from its parent or its parent s parent thereby resulting in the detection of a parent child relationship between the image and each of its linear ancestors. The graph structure can be simplified by retaining only the longest descendent path between two images resulting in a VMM having a structure shown in wherein each node has at most one parent node. This is not necessarily better than any other graph simplification but it is practical in that it retains important aspects such as the sink nodes the nodes that have no outgoing edges and source nodes the nodes that have no incoming edges and assumes that each image inherits the manipulation history of its parents.

The techniques of the described subject matter can be implemented on a computer apparatus special purpose hardware or computers in a client server environment that includes one or more processors memory input devices output devices display devices communication devices and networks and data storage devices for example computer readable media using software or firmware programmed to implement the techniques. depicts a diagram for an exemplary system for implementing the described techniques. The system includes a computer with a memory processor data entry device and display device . The computer can include a IBM PC compatible computer or any other portable devices having one or more memory devices processing devices and input and output devices. Memory can be a hard drive but can be any other form of accessible data storage while processor may be any type of processors. Data entry device is a keyboard but may also include other data entry devices such as a mouse an optical character reader or an internet connection for receiving electronic media. Display device can be a monitor but can also be any other types of devices sufficient to display information in text graphs or other user readable formats. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the described techniques can be practiced by any of numerous variations of the above described embodiment.

In some embodiments instructions embodying the described techniques can be included in a computer readable medium such as a DVD CD hard disk nonvolatile memory computer chip or the like. The computer apparatus can include the computer readable medium. The computer apparatus can further include processors in communication with the computer readable medium to receive the instructions embodied thereon. The processors can be in communication with one or more memories for storing and or accessing data for the techniques. The data can include one or more of the images or other data of the described techniques. The computer apparatus can also include multiple processors processing the described techniques in parallel or processing the described techniques in a separable manner such that a first one or more processors can process a first portion of the techniques while a second one or more processors processes a second portion of the techniques. Before presenting the results obtained by the described techniques in a user readable format the results can be stored in a memory such as a database as appropriate also the results can be delivered over one or more networks to the other entity for presentation.

In one embodiment a system for determining manipulation history among a plurality of images include an input device for receiving a first image and a second image from the plurality of images a processing device that is operably coupled with the data input device for detecting one or more manipulations if any that are operable to transform the first image to the second image or the second image to the first image a processing device either the same with the processing device above or another processing device operably coupled with the above processing device for determining an existence of a parent child relationship between the first image and the second image based on the detection of one of more manipulations if any and a display device operably coupled with the latter processing device for presenting the determined parent child relationship if any in a user readable format. As used herein operably coupled refers to a state of two devices being connected through a means of communication that allows data to be received sent and or exchanged between the two devices the data including instructions to be executed and or data processed or to be processed. For example a processing device can be operably coupled with the displaying device through one or more memory devices.

In one embodiment a system for determining image manipulation history include an input device for receiving at least a first image and a second image one or more processing devices at least one of which being operably coupled with the data input device for detecting one or more manipulations if any that are operable to transform the first image to the second image or the second image to the first image for determining an existence of a parent child relationship between the first image and the second image based on the detection of one of more manipulations if any and for constructing a visual migration map based on the detection of one or more manipulations for each pair of images in the plurality of images and a display device operably coupled with one or more of the processing devices for presenting the visual migration map in a user readable format.

The following Example merely illustrates certain aspects of certain embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. The scope of the disclosed subject matter is in no way limited by the embodiments exemplified herein.

In this example images to be processed were collected from the internet by querying the web with a set of queries culled from a variety of sources. Among these sources are the queries in the Google image search Zeitgeist which lists popular queries entered into the engine in recent history and the query topics for named persons used over the past years in the TRECVID video search evaluation from the National Institute of Standards. A list of approximately 100 image search queries were collected spanning a range of categories including named persons such as politicians public figures and celebrities locations such as specific cities and tourist destinations events in the news films and artists. From these queries a set of keywords were manually generated which were expected to return relevant photographs from a web image search. These keywords were then entered into the Yahoo web image search engine and the top 1000 returned images the maximum number available were obtained. A copy detection technique was first applied to these images to sort them into subsets of connected images. The subsets of connected images were then filtered by visually skimming the contents of the subsets of connected images to find those subsets which contained interesting manipulation patterns. In the end 22 unique queries were evaluated a representative image of each query being shown in .

For each query a VMM was constructed according to the Image Archaeology Techniques for the subset of images containing the largest number of connected images. For example shows an automatic VMM generated according to the described techniques for a photograph of Osama bin Laden and shows an automatic VMM obtained for a photograph of Dick Cheney.

In this example an Intel Xeon 3.0 GHz machine was used with the described techniques implemented in MATLAB . It took about two hours to conduct copy detection and about 15 minutes to compute the VMM. The speed can be increased by using higher performance copy detection approaches and or optimized implementations.

A single human annotator provided ground truth labels for the manipulations among the images including scaling cropping insertion overlay and grayscale. The annotator inspected each pair of images and individually labeled whether any of these manipulations were present between the pair. If a manipulation was present the annotator also labeled the directionality of the manipulation i.e. which image was derived from the other . Most of these manipulations can be observed visually. For example a grayscale image can be readily identified. Overlaying external content and insertion within other images also tend to be quite observable. The degree to which other manipulations can be observed can be subject to the magnitude of the manipulation. In scaling if one image is downscaled by 50 compared to the other then it should be obvious. A 1 downscaling would be harder to accurately notice however. Therefore as with any human generated annotation this data is subject to errors. However it is still helpful to compare the results generated by the Image Archaeology Techniques against manually generated results for verification of the robustness of the Image Archaeology Techniques. Given the manually determined individual manipulation labels for all of the pairs of images in the subset a manually generated VMM was obtained.

The human annotator also annotated two properties of each individual image its manipulation status and the viewpoint that it conveys. The first property the manipulation status simply reflects whether the image is one of the types of images shown in original or highly manipulated . These annotations were gathered by the annotator through scanning all of the images within a subset of connected images to gather an intuition about the appearance of the original image crop area and content. These classes are largely easy to observe and the annotations were quite reliable. The second property the viewpoint conveyed by the image is more subjective and the content of the original HTML page from which the image was culled can be used to assist such an effort. For simplicity the viewpoints of the document were labeled as either positive supportive neutral or negative critical of the subject of the image.

The main image manipulation detectors of Image Archaeology Techniques were evaluated in terms of precision and recall by comparing their results against the ground truth labels given by the human annotator. Precision is defined as the percentage of the automatically detected manipulations returned by the automatic image manipulation detectors that are manually labeled as true manipulations. Recall is defined as the percentage of manually labeled ground truth manipulations that are successfully detected by the automatic image manipulation detectors. Each of the methods relies on some predetermined threshold to make a binary decision. Examples of these thresholds can be the absolute magnitude of the detected manipulation such as the percentage by which a scaling edit decreased the size of an image or the percentage of the image that is occupied by detected overlay pixels. Different threshold levels were scanned and the relative shifts in precision and recall were observed.

The precision recall curves for each of the detectors across all of the 22 aforementioned queries are shown in . All of the basic context free detectors copy detection scaling and color removal have nearly perfect performance each exceeding a precision in the range of 95 with recall in the range of 90 . The context dependent detectors perform less well. The most successful among these detectors is the insertion detector which retains fairly high precision through most recall ranges. The overlay detection method provides near perfect precision up to a certain recall level and then falls off precipitously. The size and color contrast of an overlay was found to cause this effect if overlays were large enough and different enough from the original image then the method performed well. Smaller less perceptible overlays still remain as a challenge. Cropping detector provides a fair precision throughout all recall levels. Further observation of the errors also revealed that the performance of cropping might be underestimated because of the limitation on the quality of the manual annotation of cropping effects when the cropping is minor close inspection showed that the machine was correct and the human was in error.

Across all of the various image sets obtained through the aforementioned 22 queries the automatic VMMs were compared against their corresponding manual VMMs. This evaluation was done with respect to the parent child relationship between each pair of images. The manually determined parent child relationships or the edges in the directed graph representation of a VMM were used as ground truth the correct detection of an edge between an image pair by the Image Archaeology Techniques was considered as a true positive and the incorrect detection by the Image Archaeology Techniques was considered as a false alarm. Again the evaluation was similarly made in terms of precision and recall. On average precision was 92 and recall was 71 for the existence of all of the parent child relationships in the VMMs.

The VMMs emerging from a pool of collected images using the described Image Archaeology Techniques can help navigate and summarize the contents of the images in other search or exploration tasks. The original type images can be the ones corresponding to source nodes those with no incoming edges in the graph structure while the highly manipulated type images can be the ones corresponding to the sink nodes those with no outgoing edges . The types of highly manipulated images that are of most interest are the ones whose histories include a relatively large amount of information addition which lead to changes in meaning and context. shows examples of automatically discovered original and manipulated summaries.

The VMMs obtained by the Image Archaeology Techniques can also enable users to browse varying perspectives within sets of images. presents a summary of the correlations between image types original or manipulated and the viewpoints represented by the web pages upon which they appear. The viewpoints were determined by a human and were boiled down to simply positive for cases in which the author takes a position specifically in favor of image subject or the author is neutral and takes no position or negative for cases in which the author takes a position specifically opposed to the image subject . For many of the exemplary images including Che Osama Hussein and Iwo Jima a correlation between the type of image and the viewpoint of the document can be observed. In these cases the original version images are highly associated with positive and neutral documents while the manipulated images are associated with negative documents. This suggests that the status of the manipulation history of an image can indicate the meaning or perspective that it conveys. With some other images manipulations are not observed to change the meaning as much. For the Cheney image the original version is already unflattering and is frequently used as is to convey negative viewpoints. In some cases it is manipulated and the resulting images are still associated with negative viewpoints. The Reagan image is rarely manipulated in the obtained images so such a correlation is not easy to identify.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the described subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous techniques which although not explicitly described herein embody the principles of the described subject matter and are thus within the spirit and scope of the described subject matter.

