---

title: Hg co-magnetometer for Hg trapped ion space atomic clocks
abstract: Local magnetic field strength in a trapped ion atomic clock is measured in real time, with high accuracy and without degrading clock performance, and the measurement is used to compensate for ambient magnetic field perturbations. First and second isotopes of an element are co-located within the linear ion trap. The first isotope has a resonant microwave transition between two hyperfine energy states, and the second isotope has a resonant Zeeman transition. Optical sources emit ultraviolet light that optically pump both isotopes. A microwave radiation source simultaneously emits microwave fields resonant with the first isotope's clock transition and the second isotope's Zeeman transition, and an optical detector measures the fluorescence from optically pumping both isotopes. The second isotope's Zeeman transition provides the measure of magnetic field strength, and the measurement is used to compensate the first isotope's clock transition or to adjust the applied C-field to reduce the effects of ambient magnetic field perturbations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026768&OS=08026768&RS=08026768
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08026768
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100121
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 157 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates to atomic clocks and particularly to trapped mercury ion atomic clocks having a co magnetometer.

Atomic clocks are used in a variety of applications that require superior stability and reliability with continuous operations including communications frequency stabilization navigation GPS astronomical observation radio astronomy arrays national timekeeping and space navigation. The quality of a clock depends on its stability and accuracy. A stable clock is based on a constant unchanging output frequency whose fluctuations are small but whose absolute value may not be well known. An accurate clock is based on a frequency whose absolute value is well known.

In 1991 NASA demonstrated a new trapped mercury ion atomic clock that relies on an energy transition of trapped mercury ions a mercury atom that is missing one electron . See J. D. Prestage G. J. Dick and L. Maleki Linear Ion Trap Based Atomic Frequency Standard IEEE Trans. Instrum. and Meas. 40 pp. 132 136 1991 . Subsequently in 2002 NASA demonstrated an enhanced version of this clock that used two separated traps and shuttled ions between them. This trapped ion atomic clock is detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 420 549 to Prestage which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The 549 patent describes linear ion traps having either a single trap region or two trap regions. Generally these linear ion traps are rf Paul traps that comprise multiple molybdenum rods to which an rf voltage is applied between rod pairs to create a trap well. The linear ion traps are generally used with mercury ions such as Hg.

The frequency of the interrogating microwave field is modulated from the clock transition frequency 40.507 GHz with an alternating offset frequency v causing a corresponding modulation of fluorescence. The frequency of the oscillator is subsequently adjusted to null the difference in light fluorescence obtained at the v offsets. The condition of null fluorescence occurs when the multiplied output of the oscillator is centered on the atomic resonance because frequency detuning to v will give equal fluorescence levels. The output signal of the oscillator provides a stable frequency reference to be used as the basis for an atomic clock.

The stability of the Hgtrapped ion atomic clocks however can be degraded by environmental perturbations such as thermal changes magnetic fields radiation and acceleration. Accordingly Hgtrapped ion atomic clocks are designed to be insensitive to these environmental perturbations especially magnetic field variations. In terrestrial applications having minor variations in magnetic field magnetic effects can be virtually eliminated in Hgtrapped ion atomic clocks by surrounding the clock with passive magnetic shields fabricated from a highly permeable nickel iron alloy. In space however atomic clocks can be subject to much larger fluctuations in local magnetic fields that have the potential to greatly influence atomic transition frequencies and thus degrade clock stability and passive magnetic shielding alone may be inadequate to prevent significant frequency fluctuations in the clock or may exceed mass and volume restrictions that are critical for space navigation.

Accurate real time measurement of magnetic fields near or inside the ion trap would permit compensation for internal variations of the clock transition that would allow use of conventional shields or even reduction or elimination of the shielding. Using electronic magnetometers such as a fluxgate magnetometer does not solve this problem however because they generate their own perturbing electromagnetic fields which prevents locating the magnetometer close enough to the trapped ions to determine the magnetic field experienced by the ions. Another potential solution is using the trapped Hgions themselves to measure the magnetic field environment by monitoring shifts on field sensitive Zeeman transitions but this method too degrades clock performance because such measurements must be made in place of some clock transition interrogations thereby increasing the time required to average to a given stability level.

An atomic energy level is field sensitive first order sensitivity if the quantum number m is not equal to zero m 0. Conversely an atomic energy level is field insensitive second order sensitivity or less if the magnetic quantum number is equal to zero. The change between magnetic quantum numbers m for a given transition determines the polarization required of the incident microwave field used to drive the transition. If m 0 for example the Hgclock transition from S F 0 m 0 to S F 1 m 0 the microwave polarization must be parallel to the quantization axis defined by the C field which here is parallel to the long axis of the trap to drive the transition. If m 0 the polarization must be perpendicular to the quantization axis. Essentially due to the different characteristics of trapped ion motion parallel and perpendicular to the quantization axis transitions that are excited by microwaves with polarization parallel to the trap axis m 0 are Doppler free while transitions excited by microwaves with polarization perpendicular to the trap axis m 0 are Doppler broadened. The frequency of Doppler broadened transitions is less certain and this frequency uncertainty is highly temperature dependent. There are no field sensitive m 0 m 0 hyperfine transitions for Hgions and thus to probe a field sensitive transition without Doppler broadening the ion trap and the microwave polarization must be rotated relative to the C field. Additionally interrogation of the field sensitive transition must be sequential to the clock transition interrogation which increases the clock cycle time and thus degrades clock performance.

Thus there is a need for a method and apparatus for measuring the local magnetic field strength within an ion trap without degrading trapped ion atomic clock performance.

The present invention measures local magnetic field strength in real time by co locating an isotope of an element with another isotope of the same element within the same linear ion trap. The second isotope has a field sensitive Zeeman transition that resonates with the same microwave polarization as the first isotope s clock transition. For state selection the atomic clock comprises a first discharge lamp that emits ultraviolet light that optically pumps the first isotope to a clock transition ground state and a second discharge lamp that emits ultraviolet light that optically pumps the second isotope to a Zeeman transition ground state. A microwave radiation source emits a microwave field resonant with the first isotope s clock transition and the second isotope s Zeeman transition simultaneously and an optical detector measures the subsequent fluorescence when the respective lamps are turned back on.

Use of a second isotope having a field sensitive transition allows for simultaneous interrogation of the first isotope s clock transition and the second isotope s Zeeman transition. The interrogation of the second isotope s Zeeman transition allows complete characterization of its first order sensitivity to magnetic field variations which allows for an accurate measurement of the magnetic field that the clock ions experience as opposed to some other field value nearby. The calculated magnetic field strength is then used either to compensate the first isotope s clock transition interrogation analysis or to adjust the strength of the C field by closed loop feedback from the second isotope error signal in either case reducing or eliminating the effects of ambient magnetic field perturbations.

Furthermore the interrogation of the second isotope s Zeeman transition is not Doppler broadened because the resonant microwave polarization of the second isotope s Zeeman transition is the same as the resonant microwave polarization of the first isotope s clock transition. This makes it possible to measure the field sensitive Zeeman transition frequency with very high precision. In addition because the Zeeman transition is measured in a different isotope from the clock transition both transitions can be measured simultaneously thereby avoiding significant degradation in clock performance.

For example Hgions can be co located within the same ion trap of a Hgtrapped ion atomic clock wherein the Hgions are used as a magnetometer. The Hgions have field sensitive ground state hyperfine transitions with m 0 similar to the Hgclock transition but with m 0 the S F 1 m 1 to S F 2 m 1 transition and the S F 1 m 1 to S F 2 m 1 transition. The volume of space occupied by the Hgions is virtually identical to that occupied by the clock Hgions so the field measured by the Hgions is precisely that experienced by the Hgions.

The present invention measures local magnetic field strength in real time by co locating an isotope of an element with another isotope of the same element within the same linear ion trap for example co locating Hgions within the same ion trap of a Hgtrapped ion atomic clock. The Hgions are interrogated to establish clock transitions. The Hgions are used as a magnetometer by probing their field sensitive Zeeman transition. The magnetic field strength is calculated and used either to compensate the first isotope s clock transition interrogation analysis or to adjust the strength of the C field by closing the loop on the C field with the Hgerror signal in either case reducing or eliminating the effects of ambient magnetic field perturbations. This approach reduces susceptibility to fluctuations in local magnetic fields which can otherwise influence atomic transition frequencies and degrade clock stability especially in space and reduces the need for magnetic shielding to insulate the atomic clock.

To maintain the same signal to noise ratio for both isotopes the total number of trapped ions is preferably doubled either by increasing the trap s length or radius or by increasing the trap s rf field amplitude relative to the parameters needed for trapping only the first isotope.

With the Hgions the goal of state selection is to place the ions in the F 1 m 1 1 state. Optical pumping from the Hgdischarge lamp will place the Hgions in the F 1 state but this pumping does not distinguish between msub levels Hgions are left in the m 0 and m 1 1 states that won t contribute to the overall signal. To improve signal to noise a double resonance technique is employed that uses both optical and microwave frequencies. While the Hgdischarge lamp is on a carrier microwave frequency resonant with the F 2 m 0 to F 1 m 0 and a modulation sideband resonant with the F 2 m 1 1 to F 1 m 1 1 transition are emitted. The microwave and optical fields together cycle the Hgions until they decay into the desired F 1 m 1 1 state.

The Computer controls the sequential operation and after state selection the discharge lamps are dimmed and the clock transition of Hgis interrogated simultaneously with the field sensitive hyperfine transition of Hgions either the S F 1 m 1 to S F 2 m 1 transition or the S F 1 m 1 to S F 2 m 1 transition using a microwave field derived from a local oscillator LO . A frequency multiplier multiplies the output signal frequency and combines two offset signals and . The offset signals and are derived from a pair of tunable synthesizers and . Preferably the combined signal includes a signal with a sub harmonic frequency of both the Hgclock transition approximately 40.5 GHz and the HgZeeman transition approximately 30.0 GHz such as 1.5 GHz and includes the combined signals and .

This combined signal is then fed to a step recovery diode SRD a conventional semiconductor junction diode having the ability to generate extremely short pulses. Using the frequencies of offset signals and the SRD modulates the resulting harmonic frequency comb . Preferably the offset frequencies are 7.347 MHz and 45.635 MHz to probe the Hgclock transition and the HgZeeman transition respectively. For example when SRD is referenced to a 1.5 GHz frequency multiplied signal and 7.347 and 45.635 MHz offsets and SRD produces a frequency comb comprising 3.0 GHz 7.347 MHz 3.0 GHz 45.635 MHz 4.5 GHz 7.347 MHz 4.5 GHz 45.635 MHz . . . 30.0 GHz 7.347 MHz 30.0 GHz 45.635 MHz . . . 40.5 GHz 7.347 MHz 40.5 GHz 45.635 MHz etc. The 30.0 GHz 45.635 MHz frequency interrogates the HgZeeman transition and the 40.5 GHz 7.347 MHz frequency interrogates the Hgclock transition. The offset frequencies are produced by two high precision tunable synthesizers and . These are conventional high precision frequency synthesizers for generating the desired offset frequencies within a tunable range from a fixed frequency oscillator. This approach allows simultaneous interrogation of the clock transition of Hgfrom S F 0 m 0 to S F 1 m 0 at approximately 40.507 GHz and the magnetic field sensitive Zeeman transition of Hgfrom S F 1 m 1 1 to S F 2 m 1 1 at approximately 29.954 GHz.

The fluorescence levels produced during the sequential state detection phases represent the microwave frequency offsets from the Hgclock transition and HgZeeman transition. In a closed loop atomic frequency standard the LO such as a 5 MHz quartz oscillator is locked to the resulting fluorescence measurement by use of a computer . Alternatively in an open loop system using a very stable LO such as a hydrogen maser and with the precision tunable offset synthesizers referenced to the LO the system can perform high resolution spectroscopy of the clock transition and Zeeman transition.

Using the same modulation process as described above for the clock transition a magnetically induced frequency shift can be detected after two cycles by differencing the successive optical fluorescence signals after the HgZeeman transition has been excited. Using the detected field sensitive frequency shift the known zero field frequency and the known magnetic field sensitivity of the corresponding HgZeeman transition for example 1.4 10Hz T for the F 1 m 1 to F 2 m 1 transition the magnetic field can be determined by Computer . The calculated magnetic field strength can then be used together with the much smaller magnetic sensitivity of the Hgclock transition which is known in the clock transition interrogation analysis or used to compile a Hgerror signal that is then used to adjust the strength of the C field e.g. by closing the loop on the C field with the Hgerror signal . In both cases either compensating the clock transition interrogation analysis or adjusting the C field the effects of ambient magnetic field perturbations are effectively reduced or eliminated without degrading clock performance.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

