---

title: Selectively formatting media during a group communication session
abstract: In an embodiment, during a group communication session, media is received from a first set of access terminals that belong to a communication group, wherein the received media corresponds to content for presentation to a second set of access terminals that belong to the communication group. In an example, the media can be received either at an application server arbitrating the group communication session, or alternatively at a target access terminal for the received media that belongs to the second set of access terminals. Location information associated with an access terminal among the first or second sets of access terminals is determined, and the received media is selectively reformatted based on the determined location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09084079&OS=09084079&RS=09084079
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09084079
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101119
---
Embodiments of the present invention are directed to selectively formatting media during a group communication session.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment during a group communication session media is received from a first set of access terminals that belong to a communication group wherein the received media corresponds to content for presentation to a second set of access terminals that belong to the communication group. In an example the media can be received either at an application server arbitrating the group communication session or alternatively at a target access terminal for the received media that belongs to the second set of access terminals. Location information associated with an access terminal among the first or second sets of access terminals is determined and the received media is selectively reformatted based on the determined location information.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node See PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to in a given AT AT A sends a request to the application server via the RAN to initiate a group communication session. For example the group communication session may correspond to a push to talk PTT or push to transfer PTX session and the transmission of the request in may be prompted based on a user of AT A pressing a PTT or PTX button on AT A. The application server receives the group communication session request from AT A and transmits an announce message in one or more sectors of the wireless communication system . At least ATs B . . . E receive the announce message and determine to join the announced group communication session. Accordingly ATs B . . . E send a call accept message to the application server and also send a registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN to register to the group communication session and . The call accept message and registration message from each of ATs B . . . E may either be sent within separate messages on a reverse link access channel or alternatively may be bundled within the same message.

After receiving a call accept message from a first responder to the announce message from among ATs B . . . E the application server grants the floor for the group communication session to AT A . Accordingly after receiving the floor grant message AT A plays a tone to indicate to a user of AT A that the user can begin speaking and AT A begins transmitting audio media on a reverse link channel to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server . The transmission of audio media in can include data frames that actually include voice data and or silence frames that do not include voice data e.g. such as when the user of AT A pauses from speaking .

In an example each frame in the stream of audio media that is transmitted in can correspond to a real time transport protocol RTP packet or datagram or alternatively a RTCP RTP Control Protocol packet. A header portion of a 40 octet overhead RTP packet may be configured as follows 

Referring to Table 1 the fields of the RTP packet header portion are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity. After the RTP header portion the RTP packet includes a data payload portion. The data payload portion can include digitized samples of voice and or video.

Returning to of the audio media transmitted in from AT A can be classified as 1D audio . 1D audio corresponds to audio that when played back by an audio output device is not configured to provide a spatial orientation. By contrast 3D audio can be configured to convey spatial orientation for certain sounds. For example it is common for movies to encode 3D audio so as to support sound for enhancing the movie viewing experience. Thereby a viewer of the movie will hear sounds for the movie when played by an appropriate speaker system as if the sounds originated from their relative positions as shown in the movie e.g. sounds that are associated with an object on the movie screen appear to the viewer as emanating from locations that match the object s location on the screen such as to the right of the viewer below the viewer behind the viewer etc. .

The application server includes a media control complex MCC B module that handles the receipt of a media stream from floor holders and the transcoding of an output stream to one or more listening group members to the group communication session. In other words the MCC B replicates and re broadcasts the frames within RTP packets from AT A to each of ATs B . . . E. As the output stream is generated by the MCC B the application server transmits RTP packets including output frames from the output stream to ATs B . . . E as a series of group messages and ATs B . . . E monitor the group messages for the group communication session and . ATs B . . . E receive the group messages and output the received audio media as 1D audio via an associated audio output device e.g. a phone s embedded speakers a headset headphones etc. and . As will be appreciated the output of the 1D audio in and means that the audio media from AT A is output to the users of ATs B . . . E without a sensory perception of where the source of the 1D audio i.e. the user of AT A in this case is located. Rather as is typical in 1D audio the source of the 1D audio would appear to any listeners as simply originating from the audio output device itself.

The group communication session then continues for a period of time until a user of AT A determines to give up the floor . can correspond to an explicit instruction from AT A to give up the floor or based on a period of inactivity from AT A i.e. too many silence frames . After determining AT A has given up the floor to the group communication session the application server sends a floor release message to ATs B . . . E . Assume that a user of AT B and at least one of ATs C . . . E determine to attempt to gain control of the floor and send floor request messages to the application server and . The application server thereby receives multiple floor request messages and evaluates priority levels of the ATs requesting the floor to determine the AT that will next be granted the floor. For example based on the type of group communication session the RAN may evaluate one or more priority tables maintained at the RAN and may grant the floor to a highest priority AT from among the ATs requesting the floor. For example the priority tables may be configured as follows 

In assume that the application server determines AT B has the highest priority level from among the requesting AT for the call type of the group communication session and the application server sends a floor grant message to AT B. Next AT B plays a tone to notify a user of AT B that AT B now has the floor and AT B begins transmitting 1D audio media e.g. data frames silence frames etc. within one or more RTP packets to the application server which are then converted into an output stream by the MCC B and re transmitted to ATs A and C . . . E .

ATs A and C . . . E monitor the group messages for the group communication session and . ATs A and C . . . E receive the group messages and output the received audio media as 1D audio via an associated audio output device e.g. a phone s embedded speakers a headset headphones etc. and . As will be appreciated the output of the 1D audio in and means that the audio media from AT B is output to the users of ATs A and C . . . E without a sensory perception of where the source of the 1D audio i.e. the user of AT B in this case is located. Rather as is typical in 1D audio the source of the 1D audio would appear to any listeners as simply originating from the audio output device itself.

As is characteristic of a half duplex session certain ATs in the group communication session of only transmit frames e.g. within RTP packets while other ATs in the group communication session only receive frames e.g. within RTP packets . An alternative to the process of is a full duplex group communication session which is described below with respect to . In a full duplex session each participant to the session can both transmit and receive frames e.g. within RTP packets .

In B instead of granting the floor to the session initiator i.e. AT A the application server sends a message to each AT that has joined the group communication session indicating that the session can begin B. Upon receiving the message B any of ATs A . . . E can begin speaking and thereby send audio media e.g. data frames or silence frames B B B. As in the audio media transmitted in B B and B corresponds to 1D audio.

Returning to in B the MCC B of the application server receives the audio media from ATs A . . . E de jitters the aggregated media stream and then generates an output stream that includes all the media content from each of ATs A . . . E for a particular time interval. The application server then sends the resultant 1D audio media stream to each of ATs A . . . E as a series of aggregated frames within one or more RTP packets B. However it is appreciated that each of ATs A . . . E receives an aggregated media stream containing frames from all session participants except itself to avoid feedback problems. Thus AT A receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs B . . . E AT B receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs A and C . . . E and so on. ATs A . . . E each receive their respective audio frame s from the application server B B and B. ATs A . . . E then output the 1D audio from their respective audio frames to their users B B and B.

Upon receiving each of the frames in C a controller of the particular MCC B that is handling the media exchange for the server arbitrated group communication session adds each received frame from C into a corresponding queue in a de jitter buffer for the associated AT C. When a mixer at the MCC B is ready the mixer removes one or more frames from the respective queues of the de jitter buffer for a particular timeslot and performs a mixing operation on the one or more frames C. In the case of half duplex there will typically be frames from only one AT i.e. the current floor holder so that actual mixing of media need not be performed the de jitter buffer need not be used and frames can simply be forwarded from the MCC B as received without header modification. Accordingly is primarily directed to a process performed for a full duplex session. In the case of full duplex there will typically be frames from more than one AT e.g. although not necessarily from each AT per timeslot such that the mixer mixes the actual media or payload portion within each frame for a particular timeslot as is known in the art. As will be appreciated it is also possible in full duplex to have frames received from only one AT for a period of time as in half duplex such as when one session participant is doing most of the speaking during the session. However when a single frame is received during a full duplex session the de jitter buffer is still used as when multiple frames are received such that delays associated with the de jitter buffer are still experienced. After mixing the frame s in C the controller directs the mixed frame s to be transmitted to the group.

Referring to a data stream e.g. a series of frames is received from each of ATs A . . . E at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of the group communication session C. The controller of the MCC B adds each received frame from C to a queue in the de jitter buffer for the associated AT C. As shown in the queues for each of ATs A . . . E show a number of frames e.g. denoted by the letter of the corresponding AT from which the frames are received that are waiting to be processed or mixed by the mixer. When frames for a given timeslot arrive at the top of their respective queues the controller removes these frames from the queues in the de jitter buffer and sends these frames to the mixer for mixing C. As such the mixer mixes the frames from each of ATs A . . . E for a given timeslot in C. The manner in which this mixing is implemented in is such that 1D audio is produced. In other words when played back at the target ATs the source of the audio media will be perceived as the same for each speaker.

Then the controller directs the mixed frames to be transmitted to each session participant of the group communication session C. As shown in the mixed frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT such that the mixed frame sent to AT A includes frames from ATs B C D E the mixed frame sent to AT B includes frames from ATs A C D E the mixed frame sent to AT C includes frames from ATs A B D E the mixed frame sent to AT D includes frames from ATs A B C E and the mixed frame sent to AT E includes frames from ATs A B C D.

Referring to a data stream e.g. a series of voice or high data rate frames is received from only AT A at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of a group communication session C. Frames being received from only one AT e.g. AT A in this case can occur during a half duplex session or even for a period of time during a full duplex session where only one AT is sending voice media for transmission to the group. As will be appreciated other frames can be received at the MCC B from one or more other of ATs B . . . E but these frames are assumed in to correspond to noise frames or silence frames e.g. low data rate frames etc. and the controller A is configured to drop such frames and refrain from adding such frames to a queue at de jitter buffer. The controller adds each received frame e.g. meaning each received voice frame or high data rate frame while excluding noise frames and or silence frames from C to a queue in the de jitter buffer for the associated AT i.e. AT A C.

As shown in the queue for each of AT A shows a number of frames e.g. denoted by the letter A in AT A s queue that are waiting to be processed or mixed by the mixer whereas the queues for ATs B . . . E are each empty because it is assumed that no voice packets have been received from ATs B . . . E for a period of time. When a frame for AT A at a given timeslot arrives at the top of its queue the controller removes the frame from the queue in the de jitter buffer and sends the frame to the mixer for mixing C. As such the mixer performs a mixing operation on the frame from AT A for a given timeslot in C. In this case the mixing operation performed by the mixer corresponds to formatting the media in the input frame such that the RTP header of the output frame is appropriate for the output stream e.g. the sequence number from AT A s input stream is modified to correspond to a correct sequence number for a next frame in the output stream and so on . Then the controller directs the mixed or formatted in this case frame to be transmitted to one or more session participants of the group communication session C.

As shown in the mixed frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT that is transmitting frames for the time slot. In this case because only AT A is transmitting frames for the current timeslot the formatted frame sent to each of ATs B . . . E includes only AT A s frame and AT A can be sent a NULL frame e.g. a frame including no media . Alternatively while not shown in instead of a NULL frame no frame may be transmitted to AT A in C.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art providing 1D audio to target ATs participating in a group communication session is sufficient to convey the associated audio content but 1D audio is not capable of providing a location based 3D representation for the audio media.

Referring to in a given AT AT A sends a request to the application server via the RAN to initiate a group video communication session e.g. a session configured to exchange video and optionally audio as well . The application server receives the group video communication session request from AT A and transmits an announce message in one or more sectors of the wireless communication system . At least ATs B . . . E receive the announce message and determine to join the announced group communication session. Accordingly ATs B . . . E send a call accept message to the application server and also send a registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN to register to the group video communication session and . The call accept message and registration message from each of ATs B . . . E may either be sent within separate messages on a reverse link access channel or alternatively may be bundled within the same message.

After receiving a call accept message the application server sends a message to each AT that has joined the group communication session indicating that the session can begin . Upon receiving the message any of ATs A . . . E can begin sending video media e.g. and also optionally audio media and .

Returning to in the MCC B of the application server receives the video media from ATs A . . . E de jitters the aggregated media stream and then generates an output stream that includes all the media content from each of ATs A . . . E for a particular time interval in accordance with a default mixing rule. The default mixing rule will be described below in greater detail with respect to but generally corresponds to a manner in which the video media from the respective ATs is combined to provide video output frames to each target AT.

The application server then sends the resultant mixed video media stream to each of ATs A . . . E as a series of aggregated frames within one or more RTP packets . However it is appreciated that each of ATs A . . . E can receive an aggregated media stream containing frames from all session participants except itself to avoid feedback problems e.g. although if a user wishes to view his her own video media stream this can be accomplished internally at the individual ATs without involving the application server in an example . Thus AT A receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs B . . . E AT B receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs A and C . . . E and so on.

Each of ATs A . . . E monitor a downlink channel for receipt of the group messages i.e. the video media stream from the application server and . Thereby each of ATs A . . . E receive and then output the video media stream via a display device associated with the respective ATs and .

Referring to a stream of video frames is received from each of ATs A . . . E at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of the group communication session C. The controller of the MCC B adds each received frame from C to a queue in the de jitter buffer for the associated AT C. As shown in the queues for each of ATs A . . . E show a number of frames e.g. denoted by the letter of the corresponding AT from which the frames are received that are waiting to be processed or mixed by the mixer. When frames for a given timeslot arrive at the top of their respective queues the controller removes these frames from the queues in the de jitter buffer and sends these frames to the mixer for mixing in accordance with the default mixing rule for video frames C. As such the mixer mixes the frames from each of ATs A . . . E for a given timeslot in C.

Referring to the controller directs the mixed frames to be transmitted to each session participant of the group video communication session C. As shown in the mixed frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT such that the mixed frame sent to AT A includes frames from ATs B C D E the mixed frame sent to AT B includes frames from ATs A C D E the mixed frame sent to AT C includes frames from ATs A B D E the mixed frame sent to AT D includes frames from ATs A B C E and the mixed frame sent to AT E includes frames from ATs A B C D.

More specifically in the default mixing rule is to combine in clock wise fashion and in the order of A . . . E excepting the target AT the video media from the respective ATs. Thus because there are five 5 ATs providing video media each AT will be provided a total of four 4 combined video frames at a time in the output video stream i.e. the video streams of the four other ATs without the target AT s own video stream . The example of shows a grid with four slots available for showing video frames from each respective AT. The grid or video output frame intended for AT A thereby has AT B s video frame in an upper left portion AT C s video frame in an upper right portion AT D s video frame in an lower left portion and AT E s video frame in an lower right portion. The remaining video frame arrangements in the output video frame or stream will be appreciated from a review of .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the 1D audio playback of the group communication sessions described with respect to does not take virtual or physical locations of the respective call participants into account. Thus if each call participant is located in a different country a different floor of a building or a different online chat room or poker game seating position the audio is mixed in a manner such that the call participants are perceived from the standpoint at a user of a target AT as originating from the same source or origination point or direction. Also the arrangement of the positions of the AT specific video portions of the group video communication described with respect to are not based on the respective locations of the call participants but are rather the result of a default mixing algorithm.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to taking location information into account when formatting media for presentation to a user of an access terminal during a group communication session. The embodiments can be directed to group audio communication sessions e.g. as shown in or to group video communication sessions e.g. as shown in . The embodiments can be implemented at the application server e.g. as shown in or alternatively at the ATs themselves e.g. as shown in . The group communication sessions themselves can be half duplex hybrid duplex e.g. more than one and less than all session participants can hold the floor or full duplex e.g. each session participants can send media to the group or hold the floor .

In an example the location information can correspond to a geographic position or location of the one or more ATs. For example ATs A . . . E can report their respective geographic positions e.g. computed via GPS or some other location determination mechanism to the application server . These reports can be periodic can be triggered at set up of the communication session or can be provided via some other basis. In an alternative example the location information can instead correspond to a serving area of the respective ATs. For example knowledge of which base station is currently serving the ATs can grant the application server a coarse location estimate of the location of the ATs.

In another example the location information can be virtual and not based on geographic position at all. For example assume that the group communication session is associated with an online poker game. It is typical that online poker games are visually presented to the players or spectators as if the players are sitting around an actual poker table. However the virtual positions of the players around the poker table do not necessarily have anything to do with their physical locations in the real world. Players from all over the world can be shown as seated together at a single table via online avatars and or video feeds. In this case the virtual positions of the respective poker players around the virtual table can be interpreted by the application server as the location information. This type of location information can be acquired by the application server from the server that is hosting the poker game which may or may not correspond to the application server or alternatively can be inferred based on the order of arrival of the respective poker players into the game.

After obtaining the location information of the one or more ATs in the application server selectively reformats the received media from based on the determined location information. Many different examples of how the received media can be reformatted are provided below. After reformatting the media in the application server sends the reformatted media to a second set of ATs A . . . E . In an example the first set and the second set can be the same such as when each participant in a full duplex session receives media from the other session participants. However the first set and the second set can also be different such as during a half duplex session when the first set corresponds to the speaker or floorholder and the second set corresponds to the listeners or non floorholders. As will be appreciated the media need not be sent back to the AT that provided the media such that each participating AT can receive media only from other ATs in at least one embodiment of the invention. However this is simply an example implementation as it is at least theoretically possible that a user of a particular AT may want his her video stream to be fed back to him her AT from the application server .

Accordingly referring to the application server receives from at least one of the second set of ATs A . . . E an indication of a selected media reformatting protocol B. As noted above the selected media reformatting protocol can correspond to instructions with regard to how the application server is to reformat media e.g. audio media video media etc. for one or more particular target ATs. Next the application server receives media from the first set of ATs among ATs A . . . E for transmission to the communication group and the application server determines location information associated with one or more of ATs A . . . E .

After obtaining the location information of the one or more ATs in the application server selectively reformats the received media from in based at least in part on the determined location information. In particular in the embodiment of the selectively reformatting step of includes selectively reformatting the received media for the AT s that provided indications in in accordance with their respective selected media reformatting protocol s B. If there are any remaining ATs within the second set of ATs that did not provide media reformatting protocol selections in B the application server also selectively reformats the received media from the first set of ATs for the remaining ATs B. In an example the selectively reformatting of B can occur based on the determined location information via some type of default media reformatting protocol that is selected in the absence of knowledge relating to a given user s preferences on media arrangement. After reformatting the media in the application server sends the reformatted media to a second set of ATs A . . . E .

Referring to the application server is arbitrating a group communication session that includes an exchange of audio media between ATs A . . . E and the application server receives audio media from a set of ATs among ATs A . . . E for transmission to the communication group A. A of is similar to of except that A is more specifically directed to audio media. In an example the audio media received in A can arrive at the application server in a 1D audio format. Next as in of the application server determines location information associated with one or more of ATs A . . . E A.

Next the application server determines for each of a second set of ATs A . . . E that are targets for the received media a virtual origination point or direction for the received audio media of each AT of the set based on the determined location information A. Examples of virtual origination points or directions will be described later with respect to from the perspective of AT A. After determining the virtual origination points or directions in A the application server generates for each of the second set of ATs a 3D audio output frame that includes the received audio media being positioned at the corresponding virtual origination points or directions relative to the target AT A. As will be appreciated the second set of ATs may include each of ATs A . . . E if each of ATs A . . . E will be receiving a 3D audio frame. In another example if only one particular AT is providing audio media then each AT except the AT providing the audio media may be a target AT for receiving the 3D audio to reduce feedback to the transmitting AT. In this case the second set would include each AT among ATs A . . . E except for the AT providing the audio media.

After generating the 3D audio output frames in A the application server sends the 3D audio frames to their corresponding target AT A. As noted above each of ATs A . . . E may receive audio frames comprised of different sets of source ATs e.g. AT A is sent an audio frame comprised of audio media from ATs B . . . E and so on . Also it will be appreciated that the location information of the set of ATs may be considered relative to the location information of the target AT for a particular audio frame. Thereby the virtual origination points or directions of the same AT vary between target ATs in at least one embodiment. This aspect is described in more detail below with respect to .

Referring to an audio output device B e.g. shown as a set of headphones in this embodiment is illustrated in association with AT A. The audio output device B being illustrated as a set of headphones is intended to represent a non limiting example of the type of audio output device that may be connected to AT A. AT A is shown as centered around the audio output device B which is meant to show that the position of AT A or a user of AT A is presumed to be centered around the headphones for the purposes of explaining . Surrounding the audio output device B of AT A are examples of virtual origination points or directions for each of ATs B . . . E. For example AT E is shown as being positioned to the left of AT A with audio from AT E arriving in the left ear or left headphone ATs B and C are shown as being above and to the left of AT A with audio from ATs B and C arriving in the left ear or headphone of AT A and AT D is shown as being to the right of AT A with audio from AT D arriving in the right ear or headphone of AT A. Aside from whether the audio arrives at AT A in the right or left ear there is also a sense of direction that is conveyed to the user of AT A. In this sense the audio output to the user of AT A is considered to be three dimensional 3D because the user of AT A will be expected to associate a 3D location or direction from which the audio for a particular AT is emanating. While the audio from ATs B C and E are each outputted to the user of AT A substantially out of the left ear or headphone the 3D audio output is configured e.g. by the application server in the embodiment of such that when the user of AT A attempts to pinpoint the virtual sources of the audio streams AT E s audio will appear to originate from a different source location than the audio of ATs B and or C.

Referring to in at least one embodiment the different virtual origination points or directions that are assigned to ATs A . . . E can be based on their respective location information. For example in ATs B C and E having their virtual origination points or directions being left of AT A may be used to convey to the user of AT A that ATs B C and E are located west of AT A. Likewise AT D having its virtual origination point or direction being right of AT A may be used to convey to the user of AT A that AT D is located east of AT A. The virtual origination points or directions of ATs B and C also being higher than AT E could be further used to convey an associated elevation e.g. ATs B and C are on higher ground than AT E or could convey that ATs B and C are further north than AT E. Also the similarity between the virtual origination points or directions of ATs B and C can be used to convey to the user of AT A that ATs B and C are relatively close together in terms of location e.g. ATs B and C are located in the same room the same state the same country within a threshold distance from each other etc. . As will be appreciated there are many different types of physical and or geographical location information that can be conveyed via the arrangement of virtual origination points or direction for the ATs that are transmitting media to the group during the group communication session.

In F after the application server begins to receive the audio media from AT A e.g. as in A of the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of . As described above the location information can correspond to physical locations of ATs A . . . E such as geographic coordinates and or serving areas or to virtual locations of ATs A . . . E such as seating positions of the users of ATs A . . . E around a virtual poker table.

Next for each of ATs B . . . E the application server determines a virtual origination point or direction for AT A based on the determined location information F e.g. as in A of . For example the application server can compare AT A s location information with the location information of the target AT among ATs B . . . E to determine the virtual origination point or direction for AT A. Thus if AT A s location is west of the target AT s location the application server can set the virtual origination point or direction to be on the left of the target AT in terms of 3D audio in an example. Again the determination of F can be relative with respect to each target AT. Thus if AT A s virtual poker seat is between ATs B and C the 3D audio sent to ATs B and C will make AT A appear to come from different directions based on AT A being seated to the left of AT B and to the right of AT C for example.

Alternatively the determination of F need not compare AT A s location with any other locations. Rather in at least one embodiment AT A s location may be used by itself in determining the virtual origination point or direction for each target AT. For example the application server may for at least one target AT establish a first predetermined virtual origination point or direction for domestic call participants and a second predetermined virtual origination point or direction for international call participants. Thus irrespective of the locations of ATs B . . . E the location of AT A can be used by the application server to select a virtual origination point or direction that will be expected to convey to the target ATs the domestic or international status of the speaker in this case AT A .

After determining the virtual origination point or direction for AT A with respect to each target AT the application server generates a 3D audio output frame for each of ATs B . . . E that includes AT A s audio media being positioned at the corresponding virtual origination points or directions for the respective target ATs F e.g. as in A of . The application server sends the 3D audio output frames to the ATs B . . . E in F e.g. as in A of . Each of ATs B . . . E monitor for group messages associated with the group communication session F and F. Thereby ATs B . . . E each receive their respective 3D audio output frames from the application server and output the 3D audio contained therein via an audio output device F and F.

In G after the application server begins to receive the audio media from ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of . As described above the location information can correspond to physical locations of ATs A . . . E such as geographic coordinates and or serving areas or to virtual locations of ATs A . . . E such as seating positions of the users of ATs A . . . E around a virtual poker table.

Next for each of ATs A . . . E the application server determines a virtual origination point or direction for each other AT based on the determined location information G e.g. as in A of . For example the application server can compare each AT s location information with the location information of each other AT to determine the virtual origination points or directions. Thus if AT A is the target AT AT A s location can be compared against the location of each of ATs B . . . E. Each of these comparisons results in a particular virtual origination point or direction for a particular AT. Alternatively for at least one of the ATs a comparison can be omitted and the AT s location information can simply be used to establish the virtual origination point or direction. For example in at least one embodiment assume that ATs located outside of the United States are always outputted as being in the left ear or left side from the perspective of 3D audio output at the target AT. In this case international ATs can be assigned a virtual origination point or direction based in part on their location without respect to their relative location to the target AT.

After determining the set of virtual origination points or directions for each target AT the application server generates a 3D audio output frame for each of ATs A . . . E that includes the respective AT s audio media being positioned at the corresponding virtual origination points or directions for the respective target ATs G e.g. as in A of . The application server sends the 3D audio output frames to the ATs A . . . E in G e.g. as in A of . Each of ATs A . . . E monitor for group messages associated with the group communication session G G and G. Thereby ATs A . . . E each receive their respective 3D audio output frames from the application server and output the 3D audio contained therein via an audio output device G G and G.

While the embodiments of generally describe example implementations of the process of whereby the group communication session correspond to a group audio communication other embodiments of the invention are directed to implementing the process of with respect to group video communication sessions as will now be described with respect to .

Accordingly illustrates a more detailed implementation example of the process of applied to a group video communication session in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Referring to the application server is arbitrating a group communication session that includes an exchange of video media between ATs A . . . E and the application server receives video media from a first set of ATs among ATs A . . . E for transmission to the communication group A. A of is similar to of except that A is more specifically directed to video media. Next as in of the application server determines location information associated with one or more of ATs A . . . E A.

After determining the location information of the one or more ATs among ATs A . . . E the application server determines for each of ATs A . . . E a visual arrangement for the received video media of each AT of the set based on the determined location information A. Examples of visual arrangements for received video media are described in more detail below. After determining the visual arrangement for the received video media in A the application server generates for each of a second set of ATs A . . . E e.g. which may be the same as the first set for a full duplex session or different in case of a half duplex session a video output frame that includes the received video media being arranged in accordance with the determined visual arrangement in A. In example if only one particular AT is providing video media then each AT except the AT providing the video media may be a target AT for receiving the video output frame to reduce feedback to the transmitting AT.

After generating the video output frames in A the application server sends the video output frames to their corresponding target ATs A. As noted above each of ATs A . . . E may receive video output frames comprised of different sets of source ATs e.g. AT A is sent a video output frame comprised of video media from ATs B . . . E and so on . Also it will be appreciated that the location information of the set of ATs may be considered relative to the location information of the target AT for a particular audio frame. Thereby the position of each AT within the visual arrangement may vary between target ATs in at least one embodiment. This aspect is described in more detail below with respect to .

In D after the application server begins to receive the video media from ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of . As described above the location information can correspond to physical locations of ATs A . . . E such as geographic coordinates and or serving areas or to virtual locations of ATs A . . . E such as seating positions of the users of ATs A . . . E around a virtual poker table.

Next for each of ATs A . . . E the application server determines a visual arrangement of the video media for each other AT based on the determined location information D e.g. as in A of . For example the application server can compare each AT s location information with the location information of each other AT to determine the virtual origination points or directions. Thus if AT A is the target AT AT A s location can be compared against the location of each of ATs B . . . E. Each of these comparisons results in a particular visual arrangement for presentation to the target AT.

After determining the visual arrangement to be presented to each target AT the application server generates a video output frame for each of ATs A . . . E that includes the respective AT s video media being positioned in accordance with the visual arrangements for the respective target ATs D e.g. as in A of . The application server sends the video output frames to the ATs A . . . E in D e.g. as in A of . Each of ATs A . . . E monitor for group messages associated with the group communication session D D and D. Thereby ATs A . . . E each receive their respective video output frames from the application server and output the specially arranged video media contained therein via a display D D and D.

It will be appreciated that have been described as being directed to an embodiment whereby the application server is responsible for selectively formatting media for transmission to a number of target ATs participating in a group communication session based on location information obtained at the application server of one or more of the participating ATs. In another embodiment of the invention raw or unformatted media e.g. 1D audio and or video output frames that are not in a location based visual arrangement can be sent by the application server to the target ATs with location based reformatting being implemented at the target ATs themselves at the discretion of their respective users . It will be appreciated that such an embodiment can potentially consume more bandwidth and or system resources but can also provide users more control and flexibility over the manner in which their media is output.

After obtaining the location information of the one or more ATs in A instead of reformatting the media at the application server as in of the application server sends the unformatted media to each respective target AT along with the determined location information A. As will be appreciated this permits each target AT to make their own independent decisions regarding how to reformat the media. In an example the media forwarding that occurs in A corresponds to sending a separate unmixed stream of media to each target AT. Thus in a full duplex audio session involving ATs A . . . E AT A will be sent four 4 separate audio streams from ATs B . . . E in A and so on. In an example the transmission of A can be performed in accordance with IP unicasting protocols and or IP multicasting protocols.

After reformatting the media in B the target AT outputs the selectively reformatted media to the user thereof B. If the selectively reformatted media includes audio the outputting of B can include outputting 3D audio via speakers connected to the target AT. If the selectively reformatted media includes video the outputting of B can include outputting a video output frame arranged in accordance with a location based visual arrangement via a display connected to the target AT.

In C after the application begins to receive the media from AT A the application server determines location information associated with at least AT A C. After the application server determines location information of AT A the application server sends AT A s audio media as 1D audio to each respective target AT i.e. ATs B . . . E along with the determined location information A. ATs B . . . E each receive the audio media from the application server and each of ATs B . . . E determine a virtual origination point or direction for the received audio media of AT A based in part of the determined location information of AT A that was conveyed from the application server C and C. As will be appreciated the determinations of C and C can also be based in part on each target AT s own location in an example which can either be determined independently at each target AT or can be determined at the application server and then sent to each target AT along with AT A s own location information.

After determining the virtual origination point or direction for AT A at each of ATs B . . . E ATs B . . . E reformat the received audio media of AT A as 3D audio based on the respective virtual origination point or direction C and C e.g. similar to A of albeit performed at the target ATs instead of the application server . After reformatting the audio media into a 3D audio format ATs B . . . E output the reformatted 3D audio media to their respective users via an audio output device C and C.

In D after the application server begins to receive the audio media from ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of . After the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E the application server sends the audio media of ATs A . . . E as 1D audio to each respective target AT i.e. ATs A . . . E along with the determined location information D. In an example the application server can send each audio stream from each AT to each of ATs A . . . E. In another example the application server may send each audio stream to each of ATs A . . . E except for the target AT s own audio media such that AT A receives the media of ATs B . . . E and so on. Likewise with respect to location information the application server may send the location information determined for each of ATs A . . . E to each target AT. Alternatively the application server may send the location information for each AT among ATs A . . . E except for the respective target AT such that AT A receives location information regarding ATs B . . . E but not AT A itself which AT A can presumably determine on its own in at least one embodiment .

ATs A . . . E each receive the audio media from the application server and each of ATs A . . . E determines a virtual origination point or direction for each provider of the received audio media based in part of the determined location information of the ATs that was conveyed from the application server D D and D. As will be appreciated the determinations of D D and D can also be based in part on each target AT s own location in an example which can either be determined independently at each target AT or can be determined at the application server and then sent to each target AT along with the location information of the other ATs.

After determining the virtual origination points or directions for the media providers i.e. the ATs other than the target AT at each of ATs A . . . E ATs A . . . E reformat the received audio media as 3D audio based on the respective virtual origination points or directions D D and D e.g. similar to B of . After reformatting the audio media into a 3D audio format ATs A . . . E output the reformatted 3D audio media to their respective users via an audio output device D D and D.

While the embodiments of describe example implementations of the process of whereby the group communication session correspond to a group audio communication other embodiments of the invention are directed to implementing the process of with respect to group video communication sessions as will now be described with respect to .

Accordingly illustrates an implementation of the process of within a full duplex group video communication session process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. E through E of substantially correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In E after the application server begins to receive the video media from ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E e.g. as in A of . After the application server determines location information of ATs A . . . E the application server sends the video media of ATs A . . . E as 1D audio to each respective target AT i.e. ATs A . . . E along with the determined location information E. In an example the application server can send each video stream from each AT to each of ATs A . . . E. In another example the application server may send each video stream to each of ATs A . . . E except for the target AT s own video media such that AT A receives the media of ATs B . . . E and so on. Likewise with respect to location information the application server may send the location information determined for each of ATs A . . . E to each target AT. Alternatively the application server may send the location information for each AT among ATs A . . . E except for the respective target AT such that AT A receives location information regarding ATs B . . . E but not AT A itself which AT A can presumably determine on its own in at least one embodiment .

ATs A . . . E each receive the video media from the application server and each of ATs A . . . E determines a visual arrangement of the video media for each other AT based on the determined location information E E and E e.g. as in A of albeit this operation in is performed at the respective target ATs instead of the application server . As will be appreciated the determinations of E E and E can also be based in part on each target AT s own location in an example which can either be determined independently at each target AT or can be determined at the application server and then sent to each target AT along with the location information of the other ATs.

After determining the visual arrangement for the video media from the respective media providers i.e. the ATs other than the target AT at each of ATs A . . . E ATs A . . . E reformat the received video media in accordance with their determined visual arrangement E E and E. After reformatting the video media into accordance with their respective visual arrangement ATs A . . . E output the reformatted video media to their respective users via a display E E and E.

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been directed to selectively mixing frames during full duplex sessions it will be appreciated how the same general teachings can be applied within a hybrid full duplex implementation. In a hybrid full duplex session two or more participants can speak at the same time while other participants listen only. Thus during hybrid full duplex sessions where for a period of time whenever a lower than threshold number e.g. one of speakers are speaking for a given period of time the jitter buffer bypass procedure can be invoked to conserve resources at the MCC B that is arbitrating the hybrid full duplex session.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

