---

title: Phenazine derivatives and uses thereof as potassium channel modulators
abstract: 

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of W, Q, R, R, R, R, R, m, and n is as defined herein, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions thereof, and methods of using the same.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08669257&OS=08669257&RS=08669257
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08669257
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100322
---
The present application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2008 011009 WO2009 042114 filed Sep. 22 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application number 60 994 826 filed Sep. 21 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application number 61 084 041 filed Aug. 22 2008 each of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on May 6 2010 is named 82662716.txt and is 691 bytes in size.

Autoimmune disease occurs when a component of the immune system causes damage to the body Harvey Champe. 2008. Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. . A number of autoimmune diseases exist which cause physical damage and greatly impact the quality of life of the sufferer. Several autoimmune diseases such as lupus may result in death if left unchecked. Current therapies for treatment of autoimmune disease have produced varying degrees of efficacy and in many cases unacceptable adverse event profiles. A clear unmet need exists for better treatments of autoimmune diseases.

Better therapeutics could result from treating the underlying pathologies of autoimmune diseases. The etiology of the various diseases is complex and differs from disease to disease. However a number of autoimmune diseases can be partly attributed to the pathological actions of T cells that either release substances which damage tissue or which activate other immune cells which cause damage. Psoriasis Sabet et al. 2007. 16 779 798 rheumatoid arthritis Cope et al. 2007. 25 5 Suppl 46 54 1 multiple sclerosis MS Winquist et al. 2007. 74 1321 1329 and type I diabetes Mallone et al. 2008. 2 101 6 are examples of diseases in which T cells are believed to play a contributory role to disease pathology. Several therapeutics including alefacept Lev Tov et al. 2006. 1 163 164 FK 506 and cyclosporine exert therapeutic actions by suppressing the activity of T cells. The use of such T cells suppressive drugs has been greatly limited to due to the global immunosuppressive nature of the agents. A need exists for a therapy which has the ability to suppress the pathological actions of T cells without causing general immunosupression which leads to an increased risk of infection.

One potential strategy for selective T cell suppression is to target activated effector memory T cells while leaving central na ve T cells untouched. One such strategy would be to target a component of T cells which is upregulated in pathological effector memory cells and which is also critical for the activation of the T cell. The potassium channel Kv1.3 has been hypothesized to be such a target Chandy et al. 2004. 25 280 289 . Kv1.3 is a critical component of the Calcium Release Activated Channel CRAC signaling pathway. In a simplified summary upon activation of the CD3 T cell receptor complex e.g. by an antigen presenting cell phospholipase C is activated which in turn causes release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum. The intracellular stores of calcium activate the CRAC channel which causes the influx of calcium and subsequent downstream signaling to the critical components of T cell activation including calcineurin and nuclear factor of activated T cells NFAT .

In order for the continued influx of calcium through CRAC to continue efflux of positively charged potassium is necessary to maintain the membrane potential. This potassium efflux can occur through either Kv1.3 or through the IKCa1 channel. The specific role of T cells expressing high levels of Kv1.3 has been explored in several autoimmune diseases which are thought to be T cell mediated. In MS patients the number of Kv1.3 channels is upregulated in myelin reactive T cells and a specific Kv1.3 inhibitor decreased the activity of isolated pathogenic T cells Wulff et al. 2003. 111 1703 1713 . Furthermore a Kv1.3 inhibitor was shown to be effective in prevention of death and in treatment of experimental autoimmune encephalitis EAE in rats which is considered a standard animal model for MS Beeton et al. 2001. 98 13942 13947 . Likewise Kv1.3 was shown to be upregulated in T cells isolated from the synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis patients and a Kv1.3 inhibitor had the ability to decrease the activity of the isolated pathological cells Beeton et al. 2006. 98 13942 13947 . Beeton et al. further showed that a Kv1.3 inhibitor had the ability to decrease the amount of joint damage associated with pristane injection in a standard animal model of rheumatoid arthritis. Kv1.3 was also upregulated in islet reactive T cells isolated from Type I Diabetes patients and Kv1.3 inhibitors decreased the activity of the pathogenic T cells Beeton et al. 2006. 98 13942 13947 . Beeton et al. also showed that a Kv1.3 inhibitor could reduce the incidence of diabetes in a standard animal model. Azam et al. showed that Kv1.3 inhibitors have the ability to reduce ear swelling in rats following the animals sensitization and subsequent exposure to oxazolone which is considered a model for both psoriasis and allergic contact dermatitis Azam et al. 2007. 127 1419 1429 .

Kv1.3 has also been suggested as a target for type 2 diabeties as Kv1.3 knockout mice had increased peripheral insulin sensivity and inhibition of Kv1.3 results in translocation of the glucose transporter GLUT4 to the plasma membrane Xu et al. 2004. 101 3112 3117 . The effects of Kv1.3 inhibition appeared to be additive to insulin in promoting GLUT4 transport Li et al. 2006. 290 C345 C351 . A variant in the promoter of the Kv1.3 gene is also associated with impaired glucose tolerance and lower insulin sensitivity Tschritter et al. 2006. 91 654 658 .

Accordingly Kv1.3 is a promising target for several autoimmune diseases as well as type 2 diabetes and there exists a need for an inhibitor of Kv1.3 which has an adverse event and pharmacokinetic profile such that the inhibitor is therapeutically viable.

It has now been found that compounds of this invention are effective as modulators of Kv1.3. Such compounds have the general formula I 

Compounds of the present invention and pharmaceutically acceptable compositions thereof are useful for treating a variety of diseases disorders or conditions mediated by Kv1.3 and in some embodiments T cell activation such as activation of effector memory T cells. Such diseases disorders or conditions include those described herein.

Compounds provided by this invention are also useful for the study of Kv1.3 in biological and pathological phenomena the study of intracellular signal transduction pathways mediated by Kv1.3 and the comparative evaluation of new Kv1.3 inhibitors.

Immunosuppressive agents constitute a major class of drugs for the treatment of undesirable or abnormal activation of T lymphocytes and the immune system associated with organ transplantation and autoimmune diseases. Among the most widely used immunosuppressive drugs in the clinic are cyclosporin A CsA and FK506 natural products of microbial origin that work through inhibition of the intracellular calcium signaling cascade downstream of the T cell receptor TCR . By recruiting abundant cytosolic immunophilin receptors each of these immunosuppressive drugs induces the formation of a ternary complex with the calcium calmodulin dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin thereby blocking access to the active site of calcineurin by its substrate nuclear factor of activated T cells NFAT preventing the dephosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation of NFAT. Despite its widespread use among organ transplantation patients CsA and FK506 exhibit significant side effects particularly nephrotoxicity as well as an increased risk of infection which prevents their widespread use for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Since the nephrotoxicity of CsA and FK506 was found to share the same molecular basis as their immunosuppressive effect attention has been turned to other signal transducers downstream of the TCR as potential therapeutic targets in recent years.

The Kv1.3 potassium channel has emerged as one of the most promising targets for novel immunosuppressants. Although no clear T cell phenotype was observed in Kv1.3 knockout mice several lines of evidence exist in support of a critical role of the Kv1.3 channel in the activation and function of human T cells. In particular Kv1.3 has been shown to play a unique role in effector memory T cellactivation and in the pathogenesis of a myriad of important autoimmune diseases. Notably Kv1.3 has been shown to be highly expressed in auto reactive effector memory T cells from MS patients. As a result extensive efforts have been made to discover and develop small molecule inhibitors of Kv1.3 as novel immunosuppressants and immunomodulators. Structurally distinct inhibitors of Kv1.3 none of which are phenazines have been reported including UK 78282 W1N17317 3 correolide verapamil and 5 phenylalkoxypsoralens Psora among others. Several of the inhibitors have been shown to be effective in animal models of autoimmunity. However none has reached the clinic due to lack of potency specificity bioavailability or easy access due to structural complexity.

As described generally above provided compounds are useful as inhibitors of Kv1.3. In certain embodiments the present invention provides a compound of formula I 

Compounds of this invention include those described generally above and are further illustrated by the classes subclasses and species disclosed herein. As used herein the following definitions shall apply unless otherwise indicated. For purposes of this invention the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements CAS version Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 75Ed. Additionally general principles of organic chemistry are described in Organic Chemistry Thomas Sorrell University Science Books Sausalito 1999 and March s Advanced Organic Chemistry 5Ed. Smith M. B. and March J. John Wiley Sons New York 2001 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

As described herein compounds of the invention may optionally be substituted with one or more substituents such as are illustrated generally above or as exemplified by particular classes subclasses and species of the invention. It will be appreciated that the phrase optionally substituted is used interchangeably with the phrase substituted or unsubstituted. In general the term substituted whether preceded by the term optionally or not refers to the replacement of hydrogen radicals in a given structure with the radical of a specified substituent. Unless otherwise indicated an optionally substituted group may have a substituent at each substitutable position of the group and when more than one position in any given structure may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group the substituent may be either the same or different at every position. Combinations of substituents envisioned by this invention are preferably those that result in the formation of stable or chemically feasible compounds. The term stable as used herein refers to compounds that are not substantially altered when subjected to conditions to allow for their production detection and preferably their recovery purification and use for one or more of the purposes disclosed herein. In some embodiments a stable compound or chemically feasible compound is one that is not substantially altered when kept at a temperature of 40 C. or less in the absence of moisture or other chemically reactive conditions for at least a week.

The term aliphatic or aliphatic group as used herein means a straight chain i.e. unbranched or branched substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon chain that is completely saturated or that contains one or more units of unsaturation or a monocyclic hydrocarbon or bicyclic hydrocarbon that is completely saturated or that contains one or more units of unsaturation but which is not aromatic also referred to herein as carbocycle cycloaliphatic or cycloalkyl that has a single point of attachment to the rest of the molecule. Unless otherwise specified aliphatic groups contain 1 6 aliphatic carbon atoms. In some embodiments aliphatic groups contain 1 5 aliphatic carbon atoms. In other embodiments aliphatic groups contain 1 4 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other embodiments aliphatic groups contain 1 3 aliphatic carbon atoms and in yet other embodiments aliphatic groups contain 1 2 aliphatic carbon atoms.

As used herein the term cycloaliphatic or carbocycle or cycloalkyl refers to a hydrocarbon that is completely saturated or that contains one or more units of unsaturation but which is not aromatic that has a single point of attachment to the rest of the molecule wherein any individual ring in said bicyclic ring system has 3 7 members. Suitable aliphatic groups include but are not limited to linear or branched substituted or unsubstituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl groups and hybrids thereof such as cycloalkyl alkyl cycloalkenyl alkyl or cycloalkyl alkenyl.

The term lower alkyl refers to a Cstraight or branched alkyl group. Exemplary lower alkyl groups are methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl and tert butyl.

The term lower haloalkyl refers to a Cstraight or branched alkyl group that is substituted with one or more halogen atoms.

The term heteroatom means one or more of oxygen sulfur nitrogen phosphorus or silicon including any oxidized form of nitrogen sulfur phosphorus or silicon the quaternized form of any basic nitrogen or a substitutable nitrogen of a heterocyclic ring for example N as in 3 4 dihydro 2H pyrrolyl NH as in pyrrolidinyl or NR as in N substituted pyrrolidinyl .

The term aryl used alone or as part of a larger moiety as in aralkyl aralkoxy or aryloxyalkyl refers to monocyclic and bicyclic ring systems having a total of five to 10 ring members wherein at least one ring in the system is aromatic and wherein each ring in the system contains three to seven ring members. The term aryl may be used interchangeably with the term aryl ring . In certain embodiments of the present invention aryl refers to an aromatic ring system which includes but not limited to phenyl biphenyl naphthyl anthracyl and the like which may bear one or more substituents. Also included within the scope of the term aryl as it is used herein is a group in which an aromatic ring is fused to one or more non aromatic rings such as indanyl phthalimidyl naphthimidyl phenanthridinyl or tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heteroaryl and heteroar used alone or as part of a larger moiety e.g. heteroaralkyl or heteroaralkoxy refer to groups having 5 to 10 ring atoms preferably 5 6 or 9 ring atoms having 6 10 or 14 electrons shared in a cyclic array and having in addition to carbon atoms from one to five heteroatoms. The term heteroatom refers to nitrogen oxygen or sulfur and includes any oxidized form of nitrogen or sulfur and any quaternized form of a basic nitrogen. Heteroaryl groups include without limitation thienyl furanyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl indolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl and pteridinyl. The terms heteroaryl and heteroar as used herein also include groups in which a heteroaromatic ring is fused to one or more aryl cycloaliphatic or heterocyclyl rings where the radical or point of attachment is on the heteroaromatic ring. Nonlimiting examples include indolyl isoindolyl benzothienyl benzofuranyl dibenzofuranyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl 4H quinolizinyl carbazolyl acridinyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl and pyrido 2 3 b 1 4 oxazin 3 4H one. A heteroaryl group may be mono or bicyclic. The term heteroaryl may be used interchangeably with the terms heteroaryl ring heteroaryl group or heteroaromatic . The term heteroaralkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by a heteroaryl.

As used herein the terms heterocycle heterocyclyl heterocyclic radical and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably and refer to a stable 5 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic moiety that is either saturated or partially unsaturated and having in addition to carbon atoms one or more preferably one to four heteroatoms as defined above.

A heterocyclic ring can be attached to its pendant group at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure and any of the ring atoms can be optionally substituted. Examples of such saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic radicals include without limitation tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl decahydroquinolinyl oxazolidinyl piperazinyl dioxanyl dioxolanyl diazepinyl oxazepinyl thiazepinyl morpholinyl and quinuclidinyl. The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl heterocyclyl ring heterocyclic group heterocyclic moiety and heterocyclic radical are used interchangeably herein and also include groups in which a heterocyclyl ring is fused to one or more aryl heteroaryl or cycloaliphatic rings such as indolinyl 3H indolyl chromanyl phenanthridinyl or tetrahydroquinolinyl where the radical or point of attachment is on the heterocyclyl ring. A heterocyclyl group may be mono or bicyclic. The term heterocyclylalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclyl.

As used herein the term partially unsaturated refers to a ring moiety that includes at least one double or triple bond. The term partially unsaturated is intended to encompass rings having multiple sites of unsaturation but is not intended to include aryl or heteroaryl moieties as herein defined.

As described herein compounds of the invention may contain optionally substituted moieties. In general the term substituted whether preceded by the term optionally or not means that one or more hydrogens of the designated moiety are replaced with a suitable substituent. Unless otherwise indicated an optionally substituted group may have a suitable substituent at each substitutable position of the group and when more than one position in any given structure may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group the substituent may be either the same or different at every position. Combinations of substituents envisioned by this invention are preferably those that result in the formation of stable or chemically feasible compounds. The term stable as used herein refers to compounds that are not substantially altered when subjected to conditions to allow for their production detection and in certain embodiments their recovery purification and use for one or more of the purposes disclosed herein.

Suitable monovalent substituents on a substitutable carbon atom of an optionally substituted group are independently halogen CH R CH OR O CH R O CH C O OR CH CH OR CH SR CH Ph which may be substituted with R CH O CH Ph which may be substituted with R CH CHPh which may be substituted with R CH O CH pyridyl which may be substituted with R NO CN N CH N R CH N R C O R N R C S R CH N R C O NR N R C S NR CH N R C O OR N R N R C O R N R N R C O NR N R N R C O OR CH C O R C S R CH C O OR CH C O SR CH C O OSiR CH OC O R OC O CH SR SC S SR CH SC O R CH C O NR C S NR C S SR SC S SR CH OC O NR C O N OR R C O C O R C O CHC O R C NOR R CH SSR CH S O R CH S O OR CH OS O R S O NR CH S O R N R S O NR N R S O R N OR R C NH NR P O R P O R OP O R OP O OR SiR Cstraight or branched alkylene O N R or Cstraight or branched alkylene C O O N R wherein each R may be substituted as defined below and is independently hydrogen Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph CH 5 6 membered heteroaryl ring or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur or notwithstanding the definition above two independent occurrences of R taken together with their intervening atom s form a 3 12 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl mono or bicyclic ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur which may be substituted as defined below.

Suitable monovalent substituents on R or the ring formed by taking two independent occurrences of R together with their intervening atoms are independently halogen CH R haloR CH OH CH OR CH CH OR O haloR CN N CH C O R CH C O OH CH C O OR CH SR CH SH CH NH CH NHR CH NR NO SiR OSiR C O SR Cstraight or branched alkylene C O OR or SSR wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently selected from Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of R include O and S.

Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of an optionally substituted group include the following O S NNR NNHC O R NNHC O OR NNHS O R NR NOR O C R O or S C R S wherein each independent occurrence of R is selected from hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Suitable divalent substituents that are bound to vicinal substitutable carbons of an optionally substituted group include O CR O wherein each independent occurrence of R is selected from hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of R include halogen R haloR OH OR O haloR CN C O OH C O OR NH NHR NR or NO wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on a substitutable nitrogen of an optionally substituted group include R NR C O R C O OR C O C O R C O CHC O R S O R S O NR C S NR C NH NR or N R S O R wherein each R is independently hydrogen Caliphatic which may be substituted as defined below unsubstituted OPh or an unsubstituted 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur or notwithstanding the definition above two independent occurrences of R taken together with their intervening atom s form an unsubstituted 3 12 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl mono or bicyclic ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of R are independently halogen R haloR OH OR O haloR CN C O OH C O OR NH NHR NR or NO wherein each R is unsubstituted or where preceded by halo is substituted only with one or more halogens and is independently Caliphatic CHPh O CH Ph or a 5 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aryl ring having 0 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to those salts which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art. For example S. M. Berge et al. describe pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J. Pharmaceutical Sciences 1977 66 1 19 incorporated herein by reference. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention include those derived from suitable inorganic and organic acids and bases. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable nontoxic acid addition salts are salts of an amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic acid oxalic acid maleic acid tartaric acid citric acid succinic acid or malonic acid or by using other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable salts include adipate alginate ascorbate aspartate benzenesulfonate benzoate bisulfate borate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate citrate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate formate fumarate glucoheptonate glycerophosphate gluconate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydroiodide 2 hydroxy ethanesulfonate lactobionate lactate laurate lauryl sulfate malate maleate malonate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate phosphate pivalate propionate stearate succinate sulfate tartrate thiocyanate p toluenesulfonate undecanoate valerate salts and the like.

Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal alkaline earth metal ammonium and N Calkyl salts. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts include sodium lithium potassium calcium magnesium and the like. Further pharmaceutically acceptable salts include when appropriate nontoxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations formed using counterions such as halide hydroxide carboxylate sulfate phosphate nitrate loweralkyl sulfonate and aryl sulfonate.

Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include all isomeric e.g. enantiomeric diastereomeric and geometric or conformational forms of the structure for example the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center Z and E double bond isomers and Z and E conformational isomers. Therefore single stereochemical isomers as well as enantiomeric diastereomeric and geometric or conformational mixtures of the present compounds are within the scope of the invention. Unless otherwise stated all tautomeric forms of the compounds of the invention are within the scope of the invention. Additionally unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds having the present structures including the replacement of hydrogen by deuterium or tritium or the replacement of a carbon by a C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention. Such compounds are useful for example as analytical tools as probes in biological assays or as therapeutic agents in accordance with the present invention.

As used herein the term inhibitor is defined as a compound that binds to and for inhibits Kv1.3 with measurable affinity. In certain embodiments an inhibitor has an ICand or binding constant of less about 50 M less than about 1 less than about 500 nM less than about 100 nM or less than about 10 nM.

The terms measurable affinity and measurably inhibit as used herein means a measurable change in Kv1.3 activity between a sample comprising a compound of the present invention or composition thereof and an equivalent sample in the absence of said compound or composition thereof.

As defined above W is O N or C R . In certain embodiments W is O. In other embodiments W is N . In still other embodiments W is C R .

As defined above the Rgroup of formula I is an optionally substituted group selected from Caliphatic Ccycloaliphatic a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring or a 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted Caliphatic. In some embodiments Ris substituted Caliphatic. In other embodiments Ris an optionally substituted group selected from Ccycloaliphatic a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring or a 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

In some embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris a 5 10 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In some embodiments Ris a 5 6 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In other embodiments Ris an 8 10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheteroaryl rings include optionally substituted thienyl furanyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl indolyl isoindolyl benzothienyl benzofuranyl dibenzofuranyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl or quinazolinyl.

In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 6 membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheterocyclic rings include tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl piperazinyl dioxanyl dioxolanyl diazepinyl oxazepinyl thiazepinyl morpholinyl and thiomorpholinyl.

As defined generally above Ris an optionally substituted group selected from Ccycloaliphatic a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring or a 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted Ccycloaliphatic. In some embodiments Ris cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. In some embodiments Ris an optionally substituted a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring. In other embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

In some embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris a 5 10 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In some embodiments Ris a 5 6 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In other embodiments Ris an 8 10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheteroaryl rings include optionally substituted thienyl furanyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl indolyl isoindolyl benzothienyl benzofuranyl dibenzofuranyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl or quinazolinyl.

In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 6 membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheterocyclic rings include tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl piperazinyl dioxanyl dioxolanyl diazepinyl oxazepinyl thiazepinyl morpholinyl and thiomorpholinyl.

As defined generally above Ris an optionally substituted group selected from Ccycloaliphatic a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring or a 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted Caliphatic. In some embodiments Ris an optionally substituted a 6 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic carbocyclic ring. In other embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur.

In some embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris a 5 10 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In some embodiments Ris a 5 6 membered heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In other embodiments Ris an 8 10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheteroaryl rings include optionally substituted thienyl furanyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl indolyl isoindolyl benzothienyl benzofuranyl dibenzofuranyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl or quinazolinyl.

In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 10 membered monocyclic or bicyclic saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In certain embodiments Ris an optionally substituted 5 6 membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Exemplary Rheterocyclic rings include tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl piperazinyl dioxanyl dioxolanyl diazepinyl oxazepinyl thiazepinyl morpholinyl and thiomorpholinyl.

As defined generally above the Q group of formula I is Q is O S C R or N R . In certain embodiments Q is N R . In other embodiments Q is selected from O S or C R .

According to one aspect the present invention provides a compound of any of formulae I a I b I c or I d 

In certain embodiments the R group of formula I a is hydrogen. In other embodiments the R group of formula I a is optionally substituted Caliphatic.

In certain embodiments each R group of formula I b is hydrogen. In other embodiments one R group of formula I b is hydrogen and the other is optionally substituted Caliphatic. In other embodiments each R group of formula I b is optionally substituted Caliphatic.

As defined generally above n is 0 4 and each Ris independently selected from halogen CN R OR SR N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O R OC O R SOR SON R N R SOR or N R C O N R . In certain embodiments n is 0. In other embodiments n is 1 4. In some embodiments n is 1 2. In certain embodiments n is 1.

In certain embodiments Ris halogen CN optionally substituted Caliphatic OR SR or N R . In certain embodiments Ris fluoro chloro methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl OCH OCHCH NH NHCH or N CH .

As defined generally above m is 0 2 and each Ris independently selected from halogen CN R OR SR or N R . In certain embodiments m is 0. In other embodiments m is 1. In some embodiments m is 2. In certain embodiments Ris fluoro chloro methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl OCH OCHCH NH NHCH or N CH .

In certain embodiments both of m and n are 0. In other embodiments m is 0 and n is 1. In some embodiments m is 1 and n is 0.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides a compound depicted in Table 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments the present invention provides a compound depicted in Table 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof

Several groups have synthesized compounds chemically related to clofazimine Zeis B. M. et al. 1987. 31 789 793 Fransblau S. G. and O Sullivan J. F. 1988. 32 1583 1585 O Sullivan J. F. et al. 1988. 31 567 572 Fransblau S. G. et al. 1989. 33 2004 2005 O Conner R. et al. 1995. 27 591 614 Reddy V. M. et al. 1999. 43 615 623 van Rensburg C. E. J. et al. 2000. 46 43 48 Huygens F. et al. 2005. 51 263 267 U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 891 062 2 943 089 2 946 792 2 948 726 3 080 283 3 375 251 3 455 926 3 499 899 3 592 814 3 822 265 5 763 442 5 763 443 WO2003007957 .

There have been a number of competing hypotheses about the mechanisms by which CLF acts on mycobacteria. Clofazimine was first hypothesized to exhibit its antimicrobial activity by binding to high G C content DNA Morrison N. E. et al. 1976. 44 133 134 Morrison N. E. et al. 1976. 44 475 481 . Another proposed mechanism was through a redox cycle where CLF is reduced by the mitochondria of cells inhibiting respiration and then oxidized to produce hydrogen peroxide Delhanty J. D. A. et al. 1974. 55 13 19 Rhodes P. M. and Wilkie D. 1973. 22 1047 1056 . More recent observations demonstrating inhibition of potassium influx in mycobacteria showed that calcium influx was unaffected and the explanation for this observation was suggested to be the inhibition of Na K ATPase or the KDP system Steel H. C. et al. 1999. 44 209 216 Cholo M. C. et al. 2006. 57 79 84 .

Clofazimine has also been observed to have both pro and anti inflammatory effects on the immune system with competing hypothesized mechanisms Arbiser J. L. and Moschella S. L. 1995. 32 241 247 O Connor R. et al. 1995. 27 591 614 . Anti inflammatory effects which have been observed include a dose dependent inhibition of neutrophil migration and activated lymphocyte proliferation van Rensburg C. E. J. et al. 1982. 21 693 697 Anderson R. et al. 1986. 8 605 620 . Pro inflammatory effects include stimulation of myeloperoxidase mediated iodination phagocytosis release of lysosomal enzymes and generation of more superoxide radicals Zeis B. M. et al. 1987. 31 789 793 Sahu A. et al. 1992. 4 721 730 . One more theory of CLF s anti inflammatory effects on the immune system involved CLF causing the production of lysophospholipids in lymphocytes. These lysophospholipids were posited to be formed after indirect stimulation of phospholipase A PLA2 and those lipids were hypothesized to then inhibit the Na K ATPase and therefore inhibit activated lymphocyte proliferation Anderson R. et al. 1993. 11 2029 2038 Van Rensburg C. E. J. et al. 1993. 53 318 323 .

The mechanisms hypothesized in the previous paragraphs do not suggest and are potentially at odds with the hypothesis that clofazimine inhibits the potassium channel Kv1.3 and diseases mediated by Kv1.3. The hypothesis that CLF mediates its anti inflammatory effects by activation of PLA2 and lysophospholipids is at odds with research showing that lysophospholipids produced by lymphocytes are proinflammatory and that blocking PLA2 is effective in treating an animal model of multiple sclerosis Asaoka Y. et al. 1992. 89 6447 6451 Kalyvas A. and David S 2004. 41 323 35 . In addition calcium influx has been shown to activate forms of PLA2 Chang W. et al. 2006. 20 E1681 E1693 while a Kv1.3 inhibitor would prevent calcium influx. Finally inhibitors of PLA2 suppress calcium ionophore and mitogen induced expression of IL 2 Burgermeister et al. 2003. 466 169 180 which contradicts the theory that CLF as an activator of PLA2 would be anti inflammatory. Taken as a whole the myriad of competing mechanism hypothesis and potentially conflicting data would make the hypothesis and any observations of CLF as a Kv1.3 inhibitor a novel finding.

In addition to being used to treat leprosy CLF has been reported to have been used both in single patient case studies as well as multi patient clinical trials. CLF has been used as a treatment for several infectious conditions including Katoch et al. 2004. 120 290 304 Psittacosis Macheta et al. 1994. 28 69 71 Lobo Disease Silvad et al. 1978. 71 409 412 tuberculosis Senaratne W V. 2004. 49 86 87 Van Deun et al. 2004. 8 560 7 rhinoscleroma Sehta et al. 1989. 103 856 860 leishmaniasis Evans et al. 1989. 103 856 860 and cutaneous malacoplakia which is a rare disease that is hypothesized to be the result of bacterial death Herror et al. 1990 947 948 . In addition clofazimine was tried unsuccessfully to prevent complex disease in HIV infected individuals Abrams et al. 1993. 167 1459 1463 .

Groups have hypothesized that mycobacteria infection could be the cause of Crohn s disease and therefore have used clofazimine either as a single agent or as part of a multi drug regimen with mixed results. In a placebo controlled study with 20 subjects over the course of six months clofazimine appeared to prevent disease relapse Kelleher D. et al. 1982. 23 A449 A450 . However in a placebo controlled trial with 213 patients over a 36 month period in which patients received clofazimine as part of a multi drug regiment against paratuberculosis the intervention failed to produce sustained benefit Selby et al. 2007. 132 2313 2319 .

Reports exist documenting the use of clofazimine to treat a number of very rare diseases whose etiology is poorly understood including pyoderma gangrenosum Milika R B et al. 2002. 41 65 8 Wollina U. 2002.3 149 58 Acne agminata Seukeran D. et al. 1999. 141 596 597 Sweet s syndrome Cohen et al. 2007. 2 34. Melkersson Rosenthal Syndrome Horsteini et al. 1997. 24 281 296 cheilitis granulomatosa associated with Melkersson Rosenthal Syndrome Goncalves et al. 2007. 73 138 139 Galley et al. 1989. 116 241 244 Fdez Freire et al. 2005. 4 374 7 Weber Christian Disease Abuzahara F. 2005. 152 565 566 Rothmann Makai Wollina et al. 1996. 76 77 79 scleroma and necrobiosis lipoidica Shehata. 1989 103 856 860 granuloma annulare and necrobiosis lipoidica Mensing. 1989. 40 99 103 granuloma faciale La Fuente. 2000. 80 144 laryngeal sarcoidosis Ridder et al. 2000. 109 1146 1149 and erythema dyschromicium perstans Piqueromatrin et al. 1989. 28 198 200 . Clofazimine has been tried unsuccessfully for the treatment of vitiligo Shukla et al. 1981. 163 169 171 . In addition to use as a human therapeutic clofazimine has been tried for treatment of equine fistulous withers Knottenbelt et al. 1989. 11 509 510 . There is no common thread or mechanism that tie together all of the uses of clofazimine for the various rare diseases with poorly understood mechanisms. However few of the diseases have approved therapies which produce the desired clinical effects. Therefore as with a number of other agents clofazimine was used in the hope that it might produce a therapeutic outcome.

Clofazimine has also been tried as a therapy for treatment for various forms of cancer including multidrug resistant cancer U.S. Pat. No. 5 763 443 . Clofazimine was suggested to be a potential treatment for lung cancer based on results using a cancerous cell line Sri Pathmanathan et al. 1994. 56 900 905 and a xenograft model Van Rensburg. 1994. 85 59 63 . In two clinical studies of liver cancer clofazimine produced mixed results with no significant remission of the disease but may have stabilized some patients Ruff P et al. 1998. 9 217 219 Falkson C I et al. 1999. 57 232 235 . Better results were reported in a rat model of liver cancer using a lipiodol formulation Pourgholami M H et al. 2004.207 37 47 . Clofazimine has also been suggested as a treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia Brandt L. 1972. 9 159 66 .

Several case reports exist on the use of clofazimine to treat pustular psoriasis Nair Shereef. 1991. 30 151 Rubisz Brzez ska et al. 1982. 69 75 78 Chuaprapaisilp Piamphongsant. 1978.99 303 5 Molin. 1975.55 151 3 and a report exists on treatment of impetigo herpetiformis which may be related to pustular psoriasis Rubisz Brzezi ska et al. 1981. 68 505 9 . Pustular psoriasis is characterized by pustules filled with pus which are not caused by infection. Pustular psoriasis itself is generally thought of as having distinct forms including von Zumbusch pustular psoriasis which is characterized by a sudden outbreak of pustules dehydration anemia weight loss muscle weakness and other serious complications and can be life threatening in nature Specific Forms of Psoriasis 2006. National Psoriasis Foundation and palmo plantar pustulosis which is characterized by pustules on the palms of the hand and soles of the feet Specific Forms of Psoriasis 2006. National Psoriasis Foundation . The disease cycles between fewer to more pustules for reasons that are not clear. A third form of pustular psoriasis is acropustulosis also known as acrodermattis continua of Hallopeau which is characterized by pustules on the palms and soles of infants and often self resolves with time Specific Forms of Psoriasis 2006. National Psoriasis Foundation .

The various forms of pustular psoriasis clearly differ in terms of the timing of the disease manifestations from the sudden onset of von Zumbusch to the chronic nature of palmo plantar and the self resolving acropustulosis. The etiology of the various forms of pustular psoriasis remains murky but various risk factors have been documented which vary between the various forms of pustular psoriasis. For instance withdrawal of corticosteroids has been associated with von Zumbusch and smoking with outbreaks of acropustulosis Specific Forms of Psoriasis 2006. National Psoriasis Foundation . Certain agents such as methotrexate have been used to successfully treat both von Zumbusch pustular psoriasis and palmo plantar pustular psoriasis but treatment protocols differ for the various pustular psoriasis diseases e.g. for von Zumbusch pustular psoriasis medical care must be given immediately with treatments including rehydration while little treatment may be employed for acropustulosis which tends to completely self resolve when an infant turns three Specific Forms of Psoriasis 2006. National Psoriasis Foundation . Therefore one cannot a priori conclude that a new therapy which is appropriate for one type of pustular psoriasis will be appropriate for another type of pustular psoriasis.

While the differences between the various types of pustular psoriasis are striking the difference between pustular psoriasis and plaque psoriasis is even greater. In contrast to pustules plaques psoriasis is characterized by plaque lesions that often have a scale like appearance. Plaque and pustular psoriasis are considered separate diseases for regulatory purposes by the Food Drug Administration FDA and therefore a drug which has successfully passed a pivotal trial using plaque psoriasis patients will only get approval for plaque psoriasis and not pustular psoriasis. For instance alefacept brand name Amevive underwent clinical trials for plaque psoriasis and was approved only for plaque psoriasis by the FDA Amevive package insert. 2006. Astellas Pharma US Inc. . While the biological agent inflixmab against tumor necrosis factor TNF has been successfully used for treatment of plaque psoriasis Gisondi Girolomoni et al. 2007.6 515 9 and case reports exist suggesting its efficacy for pustular psoriasis Weishaupt et al. 2007. 5 397 9 inflixmab has actually been documented in numerous cases to cause pustular psoriasis Thurber M et al. 2004. 3 439 440 Wollina et al. 2008.9 1 14 . The paradoxical effects of inflixmab and other anti TNF agents suggests pustular and plaque psoriasis have different underlying mechanisms. The underlying cause of plaque psoriasis is generally thought to involve actions of T cells which exert a pathological effect but other immune cells such as dedritic cells macrophages and keratinocytes may also be involved Sabat et al. 2007. 16 779 798 . In pustular psoriasis neutrophils are found in the pustular lesions where they may contribute to the pathology of the disease together with a distinct set of T cells that produce the cytokines CXCL8 and GM CSF Keller et al. 2005. 175 7678 76786 . Thus while both pustular psoriasis and plaque psoriasis are both autoimmune diseases different subsets of immune cells may be involved in causing the observed disease pathology.

Clofazimine has also been used to treat graft versus host disease in an open label study which resulted in 25 of patients being able to decrease the amount of other medication the patients were taking Lee et al. 1997. 7 2298 2302 . In addition clofazimine has been shown to have positive effects on lupus Bezerra et al. 20052005. 52 3073 8 Krivanek et al. 1976. 17 108 10 Pandhi et al. 1978. 17 492 3 Krivanek Paver. 1980. 21 169 Crovato Levi. 1981. 117 249 50 . Although both graft versus host disease and lupus are considered autoimmune diseases the symptoms of the disease are believed to be the result of dysfunction of different parts of the immune system. For instance graft versus host disease is thought to result from the pathological actions of T cells generated by the graft which then attack the host Sun et al. 2007.150 197 214. whereas lupus is a complex disease with both a B cell and T cell components Rahman and Isenberg. 2008. 358 929 939 . Given the significant differences between the two diseases it is not clear a priori that a drug that would work for one disease would work for the other or for other autoimmune diseases.

The intracellular TCR mediated signal transduction pathway leading to IL 2 transcription is essential for the activation of quiescent T cells and as such has served as a reliable model system to discover and evaluate immunosuppressive agents. In addition to the discovery of FK506 using this model system other immunosuppressive agents have been discovered from different chemical libraries. By screening a library of chemical compounds clofazimine was identified as a novel inhibitor of this signaling pathway. Further mechanistic deconvolution by systematically examining the known steps in this signaling pathway led to identification of Kv1.3 as a physiologically relevant target for clofazimine. The selective inhibition of Kv1.3 by clofazimine accounts for the perturbation of calcium oscillation patterns by the drug and the different effects of clofazimine on the intrinsic enzymatic activity of calcineurin in vitro and the calcineurin mediated NFAT dephosphorylation in cell culture.

Although clofazimine does have a number of side effects including GI and skin discoloration it is well tolerated and relatively safe. In particular it lacks the nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity associated with both CsA and FK506. As such clofazimine has great potential in the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis type 1 diabetes and psoriasis as well as organ transplantation. The fact that clofazimine unlike other known inhibitors of Kv1.3 has been used in humans for decades may accelerate its clinical evaluation and eventual introduction as new treatments for different autoimmune and other pertinent diseases.

The clinically administered formulation of clofazimine is an orally administered soft gelatin capsule that contains micronized solid drug particles suspended in an oil wax base Lamprene Novartis . The extent of clofazimine absorption and bioavailability from this formulation is generally recognized to sub optimal Narang Srivastava. 2002. 28 1001 1013 . Multiple alternative strategies have been proposed for the formulation of hydrophobic drugs such as clofazimine. To date however none of these other formulations have been adopted for clofazimine in the clinical setting.

One proposed approach entails suspension of clofazimine in a solid emulsifying or emulsion stabilizing polymer where optimization of various aspects can be performed such as polymer molecular weight or drug carrier weight ratios WO08030469A2 WO07115381A2 Kailasam et al. 1994 3 273 279 Krishnan and Abraham. 1994. 15 329 339 Narang and Srivastava. 2002. 28 1001 1013 Vera et al. 2006. 23 686 697 . A similar approach entails suspension of clofazimine in lipids or oils WO07011940A2 Pourgholami et al. 2004.207 37 47 . Parenteral oral or topical formulations of clofazimine within micelles or liposomes have also been proposed WO05107712A1 Adams et al. 1999. 41 1638 1643 Patel et al. 1999. 54 448 451 Patel et al. 1999. 16 357 367 Salem et al. 2005. 391 261 291 . Another approach entails the suspension of clofazimine in hydrophobic microparticles that are suspended within an otherwise hydrophilic tablet U.S. Pat. No. 6 048 550 . Other approaches include a novel lyophilization technique Peters et al. 2000. 45 77 83 plasticization U.S. Pat. No. 7 201 923 optimization of microsphere formulation size for size dependent release U.S. Pat. No. 6 264 991 implantable stents designed to elute the drug WO07065016A2 and ionization of ionizable functional groups of clofazimine to enable complexation with surfactants and triglycerides U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 471 . Other proposed but impractical formulations of clofazimine have also been claimed or described in the literature such as complexing of drugs such as clofazimine with ionic macromolecules for sustained release WO07022255A2 among others US20060018933A1 . Thus a need exists for alternative formulations of clofazimine.

According to another embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising a compound of this invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle. The amount of compound in compositions of this invention is such that is effective to measurably inhibit Kv1.3 in a biological sample or in a patient. In certain embodiments the amount of compound in compositions of this invention is such that is effective to measurably inhibit Kv1.3 in a biological sample or in a patient. In certain embodiments a composition of this invention is formulated for administration to a patient in need of such composition. In some embodiments a composition of this invention is formulated for oral administration to a patient.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle refers to a non toxic carrier adjuvant or vehicle that does not destroy the pharmacological activity of the compound with which it is formulated. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants or vehicles that may be used in the compositions of this invention include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as phosphates glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone cellulose based substances polyethylene glycol sodium carboxymethylcellulose polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers polyethylene glycol and wool fat.

A pharmaceutically acceptable derivative means any non toxic salt ester salt of an ester or other derivative of a compound of this invention that upon administration to a recipient is capable of providing either directly or indirectly a compound of this invention or an inhibitorily active metabolite or residue thereof.

As used herein the term inhibitory metabolite or residue thereof means that a metabolite or residue thereof is also an inhibitor of Kv1.3.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention include those derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic acids and bases. Examples of suitable acid salts include acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate formate fumarate glucoheptanoate glycerophosphate glycolate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate lactate maleate malonate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oxalate palmoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate phosphate picrate pivalate propionate salicylate succinate sulfate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate. Other acids such as oxalic while not in themselves pharmaceutically acceptable may be employed in the preparation of salts useful as intermediates in obtaining the compounds of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts.

Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium ammonium and N Calkyl salts. This invention also envisions the quaternization of any basic nitrogen containing groups of the compounds disclosed herein. Water or oil soluble or dispersible products may be obtained by such quaternization.

Compositions of the present invention may be administered orally parenterally by inhalation spray topically rectally nasally buccally vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intra articular intra synovial intrasternal intrathecal intrahepatic intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques. Preferably the compositions are administered orally intraperitoneally or intravenously. Sterile injectable forms of the compositions of this invention may be aqueous or oleaginous suspension. These suspensions may be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium.

For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. Fatty acids such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables as are natural pharmaceutically acceptable oils such as olive oil or castor oil especially in their polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long chain alcohol diluent or dispersant such as carboxymethyl cellulose or similar dispersing agents that are commonly used in the formulation of pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms including emulsions and suspensions. Other commonly used surfactants such as Tweens Spans and other emulsifying agents or bioavailability enhancers which are commonly used in the manufacture of pharmaceutically acceptable solid liquid or other dosage forms may also be used for the purposes of formulation.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention may be orally administered in any orally acceptable dosage form including but not limited to capsules caplets tablets aqueous suspensions or solutions. In the case of tablets for oral use carriers commonly used include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. For oral administration in a capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried cornstarch. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening flavoring or coloring agents may also be added.

Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention may be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration. These can be prepared by mixing the agent with a suitable non irritating excipient that is solid at room temperature but liquid at rectal temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter beeswax and polyethylene glycols.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention may also be administered topically especially when the target of treatment includes areas or organs readily accessible by topical application including diseases of the eye the skin or the lower intestinal tract. Suitable topical formulations are readily prepared for each of these areas or organs.

Topical application for the lower intestinal tract can be effected in a rectal suppository formulation see above or in a suitable enema formulation. Topically transdermal patches may also be used.

For topical applications provided pharmaceutically acceptable compositions may be formulated in a suitable ointment containing the active component suspended or dissolved in one or more carriers. Carriers for topical administration of compounds of this invention include but are not limited to mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum propylene glycol polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene compound emulsifying wax and water. Alternatively provided pharmaceutically acceptable compositions can be formulated in a suitable lotion or cream containing the active components suspended or dissolved in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Suitable carriers include but are not limited to mineral oil sorbitan monostearate polysorbate 60 cetyl esters wax cetearyl alcohol 2 octyldodecanol benzyl alcohol and water.

For ophthalmic use provided pharmaceutically acceptable compositions may be formulated as micronized suspensions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline or preferably as solutions in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline either with or without a preservative such as benzylalkonium chloride. Alternatively for ophthalmic uses the pharmaceutically acceptable compositions may be formulated in an ointment such as petrolatum.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention may also be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability fluorocarbons and or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

In certain embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention are formulated for oral administration.

Certain compounds of the present invention are hydrophobic such as for example clofazimine. Various methods exist to reformulate hydrophobic drugs which could increase their bioavailability and improve their pharmacokinetics. For instance clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention can be formulated with carbohydrate agents such as cyclodextrin Carrier et al. 2007. 123 78 99 starch U.S. Pat. No. 4 721 709 cellulose U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 721 709 5 741 524 6 531 158 US20040224017A1 lactose U.S. Pat. No. 6 531 158 chitosan Qu et al. 2006. 7 3452 3459 US20050226905A1 or a wide variety of carbohydrates U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 500 227 6 024 982 6 294 192 6 387 404 6 451 339 US20050043272A1 US20050226905A1 WO08017839A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated with biodegradable polymers Musyanovych et al. 2008. 8 127 139 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 266 332 5 348 746 5 500 227 5 641 745 5 736 159 5 955 509 6 024 982 6 201 072 6 207 197 6 294 192 6 337 092 6 387 404 6 387 409 6 447 796 6 451 339 6 592 899 6 702 995 6 730 334 6 855 331 7 265 186 US20020036154A1 US20030157170A1 US20040224017A1 US20050008704A1 US20050152979A1 US20050249799A1 US20060057204A1 US20070048368A1 US20080038333A1 US20080075785A1 US20080095856A1 US20080107749A1 WO9924490A1 WO05084639 WO07143290A2 WO08030591A2 . As used herein the term biodegradable as applied to polymers means polymers which are degradable in vivo either enzymatically or non enzymatically to produce biocompatible or non toxic by products which can be further metabolized or excreted via normal physiological pathways. In a further embodiment clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention is suspended within micelles formed by polymers US20040005351A1 . In another embodiment clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention can be formulated with polymers in the presence of a reconstitution enhancing agent US20050152979A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated with oil based compositions U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 500 227 5 645 856 5 744 155 5 891 845 5 965 160 5 980 939 5 993 858 6 024 982 6 028 067 6 063 762 6 096 338 6 187 747 6 267 985 6 294 192 6 387 404 6 761 903 US20040142040A1 US20040213837A1 US20060073175A1 US20060292186A1 US20070048368A1 WO9929335A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated with lipids Gasco and Gasco 2007. 2 955 960 Sachs Bumble et al. 2008. 60 692 70 Ratanabanangkoon et al. 2008. 33 351 360 Trevaskis et al. 2008. 60 702 716 Charman Stella. 1986. 34 175 178 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 784 845 4 816 247 5 188 837 5 364 632 5 447 729 5 478 860 5 500 227 5 576 016 5 656 289 5 681 585 5 741 822 5 993 858 6 024 982 6 187 747 6 248 363 6 267 985 6 337 092 6 383 471 6 387 404 6 387 409 6 569 463 6 599 527 6 696 482 6 761 903 6 923 988 6 982 281 6 984 395 US20040001888A1 US20040126886A1 US20060051406A1 US20060078618A1 US20080124387A1 WO06113505A2 WO08049588A1 . In a further embodiment clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention is suspended within micelles formed by lipids Mahmud et al. 2007. 15 553 584 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 322 805 6 616 941 . In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is suspended within liposomes formed by lipids U.S. Pat. No. 5 776 486 US20040126886A1 US20050244488A1 WO03105765A2 . In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is suspended within chylomicrons formed partly by lipids U.S. Pat. No. 5 656 289 .

In another embodiment clofazimine is formulated in self emulsifying formulations Perlman et al. 2008. 351 15 22 Kommuru et al. 2001. 212 233 246 Pouton. 2000. 11 S93 S98 Gursoy Benita. 2004. 58 173 182 U.S. Pat. No. 5 447 729 US20020119198A1 US20040033257A1 US20040142040A1 US20050232952A1 US20060275358A1 . In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated to undergo fast dissolution in aqueous solution within the gastrointestinal tract U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 500 227 6 024 982 6 387 404 US20070218128A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated in an alcohol based formulation U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 843 891 6 294 192 6 982 281 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated via coating with protein US20070191473A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated with an antioxidant such as propyl gallate U.S. Pat. No. 5 962 522 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated or administered with a hydrophobic peptide US20050288222A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated with an organic solvent where clofazimine solubilization within the solvent is enabled by an amphiphilic material U.S. Pat. No. 5 770 559 or the organic solvent is water miscible U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 758 .

One solution to improve the pharmacokinetics of clofazimine is to form solid pharmaceutical formulations whereby upon oral administration the clofazimine is released with a slow selectable rate.

Various techniques are known for formulating active ingredients to selectively control the resultant release rate of the drug. In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is formulated to be released on a sustained or extended basis U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 869 904 6 855 331 US20070048368A1 .

The formulation of clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to fast release sustained release continuous as needed short term rapid offset delayed release and pulsatile release formulations Landgraf et al. 2005. 5 48 55 .

In one embodiment the composition includes clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention and at least one controlled release agent. In another embodiment the controlled release agent is a polymer that releases clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention by diffusion in which clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is encapsulated in a polymeric membrane or suspended within a polymer matrix. In another embodiment the controlled release agent is a semi permeable membrane containing an osmotic agent that releases clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention by solvent activation or increased pressure. In yet another embodiment the controlled release agent is a degradable polymeric coat that degrades in a particular environment for example in a particular pH and releases clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention. In another embodiment clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention is formulated to be released on a sustained or extended basis U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 869 904 6 855 331 US20070048368A1 .

In a particular embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention is incorporated in a controlled release matrix. Examples of materials suitable for inclusion in a controlled release matrix include one or more of water soluble polymers water insoluble polymers and fatty compounds. The term water soluble polymer as used herein includes polymers which can be dissolved in water. Examples of such water soluble polymers include but are not limited to Eudragit RL polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone methyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose polyethylene glycol and mixtures thereof.

The term water insoluble polymer as used herein includes polymers which do not or only slightly dissolve in water. Examples of such water insoluble polymers include but are not limited to Eudragit RS ethylcellulose cellulose acetate cellulose propionate lower medium or higher molecular weight cellulose acetate propionate cellulose acetate butyrate cellulose acetate phthalate cellulose triacetate poly methyl methacrylate poly ethyl methacrylate poly butyl methacrylate poly isobutyl methacrylate poly hexyl methacrylate poly isodecyl methacrylate poly lauryl methacrylate poly phenyl methacrylate poly methyl acrylate poly isopropyl acrylate poly isobutyl acrylate poly octadecyl acrylate poly ethylene poly ethylene low density poly ethylene high density poly propylene poly ethylene terephthalate poly vinyl isobutyl ether poly vinyl acetate poly vinyl chloride polyurethane and a mixture thereof.

In one embodiment the controlled release matrix includes one or more water soluble polymers. In another embodiment the controlled release matrix includes one or more water insoluble polymers. In yet another embodiment the controlled release matrix includes a combination of one or more water soluble and one or more water insoluble polymers. In a particular embodiment the controlled release matrix includes a minor portion of one or more water insoluble polymers and a major portion of one or more water soluble polymers. In a certain embodiment the controlled release matrix includes a minor portion of one or more water soluble polymers and a major portion of one or more water insoluble polymers. The ratio of water soluble and water insoluble polymers may be determined by the particular combination of polymers selected.

Clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention can be formulated as a controlled or sustained release oral formulation in any suitable tablet coated tablet or multiparticulate formulation known to those skilled in the art. The sustained release dosage form may optionally include a sustained released carrier which is incorporated into a matrix along with the clofazimine or which is applied as a sustained release coating.

In some embodiments the controlled release matrix includes one or more fatty compounds. Examples of fatty compounds include but are not limited to waxes generally e.g. carnauba wax and glyceryl tristearate.

An oral dosage form according to the invention may be provided as for example granules spheroids beads and pellets or pills. These formulations are hereinafter collectively referred to as multiparticulates and or particles. An amount of the multiparticulates that is effective to provide the desired dose of clofazimine over time may be placed in a capsule or may be incorporated in any other suitable oral solid form.

It is important for pharmaceutical formulation techniques to provide the capability of preselecting a desired release rate which can be tailored to the unique characteristics of clofazimine or other hydrophobic compounds of the present invention. For example many formulations permit selection of very slow release rates i.e. sustained release formulations.

The suggested method of ingesting the current clinically available formulation of clofazimine or in some embodiments other compounds of the present invention is that the patient takes the drug with food Lamprene USA Drug Label. 1998. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation . Following food intake a higher stomach pH of 5 6 is achieved allowing for greater bioavailability of the drug. A delayed release formulation which allowed for release of clofazimine only following the stomach pH reaching 5 6 could improve bioavailability. Alternatively a delayed release version which bypasses the stomach and starts release at the beginning of the small intestine to allow for absorption through the intestinal lymphatic system could be particularly valuable for an agent that affects T cell activity. In one embodiment clofazimine is formulated to be released in environments other than the gastric environment such as the pregastric environment WO9938496A1 or the small intestine U.S. Pat. No. 5 656 289 US20040224017A1 . To achieve the delayed release the tablets may be enterically coated with a delayed release membrane coating which will start to dissolve when the tablet is in a pH environment of approximately pH 4 8.

The current invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention disintegrant at least one protector coat layer used to separate and protect the clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention from the gastric environment and ensure delivery of clofazimine to the small intestine.

A pH dependent coating serves to release clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention in desired areas of the gastro intestinal tract e.g. the stomach or small intestine resulting in an absorption profile capable of providing at least about twelve hour and preferably up to twenty four hours of drug to a patient. When a pH independent coating is used the coating is designed to achieve optimal release regardless of pH changes in the environmental fluid e.g. the GI tract . It is also possible to formulate compositions which release a portion of the dose in one desired area of the GI tract e.g. the stomach and release the remainder of the dose in another area of the GI tract e.g. the small intestine.

Formulations according to the invention that utilize pH dependent coatings may also impart a repeat action or pulsatile release effect whereby unprotected drug is coated over the enteric coat and is released in the stomach while the remainder being protected by the enteric coating is released further down the gastrointestinal tract. Coatings which are pH dependent that may be used in accordance with the present invention include shellac cellulose acetate phthalate CAP polyvinyl acetate phthalate hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate and methacrylic acid ester copolymers zein and the like.

Other examples of sustained release formulations and coatings that may be used in accordance with the present invention are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 324 351 5 356 467 and 5 472 712 hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

To protect clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention from the gastric environment it is preferred to use enteric coating polymers such as shellac and or any of its constituent aliphatic polyhydroxy acids presented as lactones lactides and inter esters or their derivatives. Another example of a preferred enteric coating polymer is the acetic and mono succinic acid ester of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose preferably hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate having a free succinic acid content not more than 10 by weight. In another embodiment the free succinic acid content is not more than 1 by weight. In one embodiment the weight average molecular weight is 4.5 to 12 10daltons measured by gel permeation chromatography. Other suitable members of the enteric cellulose esters are cellulose acetate phthalate cellulose acetate trimellitate and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate. Enteric coating of the type methacrylic acid copolymers can also be used. Further examples of suitable enteric coating polymers are those based on methacrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters consisting of methacrylic acid polymer type A or type B or type C or any combination thereof. These enteric coating polymers optionally contain one or more pharmaceutical excipients such as plasticizer s pigment s and colorants. Both protector and enteric coats can be applied from aqueous organic or mixed solvent systems. The amount of enteric coating present is not less than 0.1 by weight. In another embodiment the amount of enteric coating is 1 to 50 by weight. In another embodiment the amount of enteric coating is 1 to 25 by weight. The enteric coat ensures delivery of over 80 the acid labile substance to the small intestine.

The process for the compounding of the compositions described herein forms another aspect of the embodiment of this invention. The acid sequestering compound is used to granulate the chosen pharmaceutical fillers using a fluidized bed technique high shear granulator blender or planetary mixer. The granulating liquid can be either aqueous organic or mixed solvent systems and preferably containing the acid sequestering compound s . The granules are dried in a fluid bed or tray dryer to a loss on drying LOD index of not more than 5 after which they are blended with the acid labile compound s other excipients and disintegrant s in that order. The disintegrant can be incorporated intragranular and or extragranular although the extragranular route is preferred.

The granules are formed into pellets or tablets using conventional pharmaceutical techniques. After forming they are first coated with the protector coat s and then with the enteric coat as previously described.

The finished product is presented as tablets or pellets or both in a hard gelatin capsule. It is preferable that the tablets or hard gelatin capsules are stored together with a desiccant in order to maintain low moisture content during long term storage. The final composition of the present invention provides that not more than 10 of the acid labile substance is released in acid media in about 2 hours and more than about 80 of the acid labile substance is released in 24 hours in alkaline media using USP dissolution apparatus I II III and IV.

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention can be formulated with polymers which can deliver the drug in a pH dependent manner U.S. Pat. No. 5 955 509 US20040162263A1 

In order to enhance the solubility of clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention it is desirable to create particles with favorable surface area to volume ratios U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 746 635 6 824 791 as such particles will have faster dissolution kinetics. A typical process is provided for making dry micronized particles of an agent such as clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention. The method includes milling clofazimine in a ball mill either with or without surfactant. The surfactant will allow further micronization of the clofazimine to particle sizes below 10 m. Another approach involves a dissolving a macromolecular material preferably a polymer in an effective amount of a solvent to form a solution b dissolving or dispersing the agent in the solution to form a mixture c freezing the mixture and d drying by vacuum the mixture to form solid particles of the agent dispersed in solid macromolecular material. The micronization in this process occurs directly in a macromolecular matrix and hardening of the particles of agent by solvent removal takes place by lyophilization of the bulk matrix which stabilizes the drug particles during hardening and prevents coalesence thereby resulting in smaller final drug particles.

The process can be used in conjunction with a standard microencapsulation technique typically following separation of the agent from the macromolecular matrix. In one embodiment the process yields microparticles having a homogenous size distribution less than 2 m in size. In certain embodiments such microparticles have well defined predictable properties.

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention are formulated within a preparation that has a bioadhesive surface that enables the adherence of the preparation to specific human body organs or tissues such as the wall of the small intestine or the mucous membrane wherein the bioadhesive agent is a polymer Szucs et al. 2008 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 744 155 6 207 197 US20050249799A 1 US20060078618A1 WO05084639 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention are formulated in nanocrystalline form or nanoparticles to increase the surface area to volume ratio of the particles to improve drug dissolution de Waard et al. 2008. 128 179 183 Deng et al. 2008. 351 236 243 US20070134340A1 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention are prepared in a liquid formulation Cole et al. 2008. 60 747 756 Golenser et al. 2006. 6 153 162 U.S. Pat. No. 7 205 413 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention are formulated in alternative solid state crystal forms with for example novel hydration states of clofazimine novel solvation states of clofaziminie crystallization with salts or co crystallization with other drugs or excipients U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 919 370 6 977 723 7 061 605 7 078 526 7 108 970 7 205 413 .

In another embodiment clofazimine or other compounds of the present invention are prepared in microreservoir systems that release clofazimine into physiological tissue at a controlled or extended rate Santini et al. 1999. 397 335 338 Sharma et al. 2006. 3 379 394 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 385 709 6 849 463 6 976 982 7 070 590 7 070 592 7 226 442 US20070299385A1 US20080047926A1 US20080051766A1 .

The quantities of the compounds of the present invention that are combined with the carrier materials to produce a composition in a single dosage form will vary depending upon the patient and the particular mode of administration. Preferably provided compositions should be formulated so that a dosage of between 0.01 100 mg kg body weight day of the inhibitor ie clofazimine or other provided compound can be administered to a patient receiving these compositions. Examples of compositions include compositions formulated to administer dosages of between 0.1 1 mg 1 10 mg 10 25 mg 25 50 mg 50 100 mg 100 200 mg 200 400 mg or 400 800 mg per day of the inhibitor to the patient receiving these compositions. In other embodiments of the invention compositions include compositions formulated to administer dosages of between 30 40 mg 60 90 mg 110 140 mg 160 190 mg 210 240 mg or 260 290 mg per day of the inhibitor to the patient receiving these compositions. In still further embodiments of the invention compositions include compositions formulated to administer dosages of between 33 37 mg 65 85 mg 120 130 mg 170 180 mg 220 230 mg or 270 280 mg per day of the inhibitor to the patient receiving these compositions. In some embodiments the composition is formulated into doses containing 1 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 25 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 200 mg 300 mg 400 mg 600 mg or 800 mg of the active composition. In yet other embodiments the composition is formulated into doses containing 7.5 mg 13 mg 17.5 mg 35 mg 70 mg 133 mg 166 mg 233 mg 266 mg or 333 mg of the active composition. Dosing regimens for these formulations may include but are not limited to single administration dosing continuous infusions once twice or three times daily dosing weekly dosing and monthly dosing.

In some treatment regimens patients will be initially treated with larger doses of the compounds of the present invention loading dose for a certain period of time loading period in order to achieve a high tissue concentration of the drug before being treated with lower doses of active composition maintenence dose for a longer period of time maintenence period in order to maintain the serum or tissue concentration of the active composition. For some chronic conditions it is anticipated that the maintenance period may be for the life of the patient. In one example a loading dose of 266 mg per day of inhibitor is used for a one month loading period followed by administration of 133 mg per day inhibitor as the maintenance dose for as long as necessary to treat the condition. In another example a 300 mg loading dose is used once per month with 50 mg per day maintenance dose in the intervening days. In another example a 600 mg daily loading dose is used for a one week loading period with a 75 mg maintenance dose applied daily thereafter.

In some treatment regimens administration of the inhibitor to a patient is temporarily halted a drug holiday . In some examples a patient may have cycles of daily doses of inhibitor for a month followed by a one month holiday. In another example a patient might have daily dosing of an inhibitor for six months followed by a one month holiday. In another example a patient might have daily doses of an inhibitor for three weeks followed by a one week holiday. In yet another example a patient might have daily doses of a drug for one week followed by a three week holiday. In another example a patient might have cycles of weekly doses of a drug for 6 weeks followed by a three week holiday.

It should also be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the judgment of the treating physician and the severity of the particular disease being treated. The amount of a compound of the present invention in the composition will also depend upon the particular compound in the composition.

Compounds and compositions described herein are generally useful for inhibition of Kv1.3 Ca influx T cell signaling T cell proliferation or IL 2 transcription or secretion. The Kv1.3 potassium channel plays an essential role in T cells and has been implicated in a number of important autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis psoriasis rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes among others described herein.

Compounds and compositions according to the method of the present invention may be administered using any amount and any route of administration effective for treating or lessening the severity of a disorder associated with Kv1.3 activation. The exact amount required will vary from subject to subject depending on the species age and general condition of the subject the severity of the infection the particular agent its mode of administration and the like. The compounds of the invention are preferably formulated in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. The expression dosage unit form as used herein refers to a physically discrete unit of agent appropriate for the patient to be treated. It will be understood however that the total daily usage of the compounds and compositions of the present invention will be decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment. The specific effective dose level for any particular patient or organism will depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder the activity of the specific compound employed the specific composition employed the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the time of administration route of administration and rate of excretion of the specific compound employed the duration of the treatment drugs used in combination or coincidental with the specific compound employed and like factors well known in the medical arts. The term patient as used herein means an animal preferably a mammal and most preferably a human.

The pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can be administered to humans and other animals orally rectally parenterally intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally topically as by powders ointments or drops bucally as an oral or nasal spray or the like. In certain embodiments the compounds of the invention may be administered orally or parenterally at dosage levels of about 0.01 mg kg to about 50 mg kg and preferably from about 1 mg kg to about 25 mg kg of subject body weight per day one or more times a day to obtain the desired therapeutic effect.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include but are not limited to pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active compounds the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethylformamide oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Injectable preparations for example sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution suspension or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution U.S.P. and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid are used in the preparation of injectables.

The injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable medium prior to use.

In order to prolong the effect of a compound of the present invention it is often desirable to slow the absorption of the compound from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the compound then depends upon its rate of dissolution that in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered compound form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the compound in an oil vehicle. Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the compound in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of compound to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of compound release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the compound in liposomes or microemulsions that are compatible with body tissues.

Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories which can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non irritating excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter polyethylene glycol or a suppository wax which are solid at ambient temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules caplets tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the active compound is mixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or a fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidinone sucrose and acacia c humectants such as glycerol d disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarding agents such as paraffin f absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents such as for example cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay and i lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.

Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like. The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polethylene glycols and the like.

The active compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form with one or more excipients as noted above. The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules caplets pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings release controlling coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. In such solid dosage forms the active compound may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise as is normal practice additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. tableting lubricants and other tableting aids such a magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include polymeric substances and waxes.

Dosage forms for topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this invention include ointments pastes creams lotions gels powders solutions sprays inhalants or patches. The active component is admixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives or buffers as may be required. Ophthalmic formulation ear drops and eye drops are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention. Additionally the present invention contemplates the use of transdermal patches which have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a compound to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispensing the compound in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the compound across the skin. The rate can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or by dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.

According to one embodiment the invention relates to a method of inhibiting Kv1.3 activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a compound of this invention or a composition comprising said compound.

The term biological sample as used herein includes without limitation cell cultures or extracts thereof biopsied material obtained from a mammal or extracts thereof and blood saliva urine feces semen tears or other body fluids or extracts thereof.

Inhibition of Kv1.3 activity in a biological sample is useful for a variety of purposes that are known to one of skill in the art. Examples of such purposes include but are not limited to blood transfusion organ transplantation biological specimen storage and biological assays.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting T cell activation in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In certain emobidiments the T cells are effector memory T cells. In certain embodiments the present invention provides a method of inhibiting T cell activation in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention and in another embodiments those T cells are effector memory T cells. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inhibiting effector memory cells in a patient by administration to a patient a compound of the present invention characterized in that such inhibition does not affect central na ve T cells.

In other embodiments the present invention provides a method for treating a disorder wherein pathological T cell activation may be involved T cell Disorders in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound according to the present invention or pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof. In certain embodiments the present invention provides a method for treating a disorder where T cell activity is involved. As used herein the term T cell activity includes but is not limited to one or more of proliferation migration differentiation co stimulation or secretion of molecules wherein such molecules include cytokines chemokines cytotoxics and other signaling compounds. Such disorders are described in detail herein and include autoimmune disorders. Exemplary disorders include Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM Addison s disease Allopecia areata Alzheimers disease Ankylosing spondylitis Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome Autoimmune hemolytic anemia Autoimmune hepatitis Autoimmune inner ear disease Autoimmune Lymphoproliferative Syndrome ALPS Autoimmune polyendocrine polyglandular syndrome Autoimmune thrombocytoipenia purpura Balo disease Beh et disease Bullous pemphigoid Cardiomyopathy Celiac sprue dermatitis herpetiformis Chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome CFIDS Chronic inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy Cicatrical pemphigoid Coeliac disease Cold agglutinin disease CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Cystic fibrosis Degos disease Dermatomyositis Diabetes Type I or Juvenile onset Early onset dementia Eczema Endotoxin shock Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia Familial Mediterranean fever Fibromyalgia Fibromyositis Graft vs. Host disease Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Guillain Barr syndrome GBS Hashimoto s thyroidosis Hidradenitis suppurativa Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura IgA nephropathy Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome Leukemia Lichen planus M ni re disease Mixed connective tissue disease Multiple sclerosis Multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis Myasthenia gravis Neuromyelitis Optica Paraneoplastic Syndromes Pemphigus Pemphigus vulgaris Pernicious anaemia Polyarteritis nodosum Polychondritis Polymyalgia rhematica Polymyositis Primary agammaglobulinemia Primary biliary cirrhosis Plaque Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Pustular psoriasis Raynaud phenomenon Reiter syndrome Restenosis following angioplasty Rheumatic fever Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid psoriasis Sarcoidosis Scleroderma Sepsis Sezary s disease Sj gren s syndrome Stiff person syndrome Lupus including Systemic Lupus Erythematosis SLE Takayasu arteritis Temporal arteritis also known as giant cell arteritis Transplant or Allograft rejection Ulcerative colitis Uveitis Vasculitis Vitiligo and Wegener s granulomatosis.

In other embodiments the present invention provides a method for treating a disorder mediated by T cell activation in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound according to the present invention or pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof. Such disorders are described in detail herein and include autoimmune disorders. Exemplary disorders associated with T cell activation include Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM Addison s disease Allopecia areata Ankylosing spondylitis Autoimmune hepatitis Bullous pemphigoid Chronic inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy Crohn s disease Coeliac disease Diabetes Type I or Juvenile onset Eczema Hashimoto s thyroidosis Lupus Multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia gravis Pemphigus Pemphigus vulgaris Polymyositis Primary biliary cirrhosis Plaque Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatoid psoriasis Scleroderma Sj gren s syndrome Transplant or Allograft rejection Uveitis.

In other embodiments the present invention provides a method for treating a disorder mediated by effector memory T cell activation in a patient in need thereof comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound according to the present invention or pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof. Such disorders are described in detail herein and include autoimmune disorders. Exemplary disorders associated with effector memory T cell activation include multiple sclerosis plaque psoriasis rheumatoid psoriasis psoriatic arthritis Chrohn s disease irritable bowel disorder lupus rheumatoid arthritis graft rejection graft versus host disease and type 1 diabetes.

In other embodiments the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the influx of calcium into T cells. In another embodiment the T cells are effector memory cells. Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the influx of calcium into T cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of inhibiting the influx of calcium into T cells wherein the T cells are effector memory cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the influx of calcium into T cells to treat T cell Disorders by administering to a patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound.

In other embodiments the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting one or more of the dephosphorylation transcription or translocation of the Nuclear Factor of Activated T cells NFAT in T cells. In another embodiment the T cells are effector memory cells. In another emobidment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting inhibiting one or more of the dephosphorylation transcription or translocation of NFAT in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting one or more of the dephosphorylation transcription or translocation of NFAT in a patient wherein the T cells are effector memory cells comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting one or more of the dephosphorylation transcription or translocation of NFAT to treat T cell Disorders by administering to a patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound.

In other embodiments the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the proliferation of activated T cells. In another embodiment the activated T cells are effector memory cells. Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the proliferation of activated T cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of inhibiting the proliferation of activated T cells wherein the T cells are effector memory cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the proliferation of activated T cells to treat T cell Disorders by administering to a patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound.

In other embodiments the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting the transcription or secretion of interleukin 2 IL 2 from T cells. In another embodiment the T cells are effector memory cells. Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting transcription or secretion of IL 2 from T cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of inhibiting the transcription or secretion of IL 2 from T cells wherein the T cells are effector memory cells in a patient comprising the step of administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting transcription or secretion of IL 2 to treat T cell Disorders by administering to a patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound.

In another embodiment the present invention relates to a method of causing the translocation of GLUT4 to the plasma membrane of cells. In another embodiment the cells are adipocytes and in another embodiment the cells are muscle cells.

Another embodiment of the invention realtes to a method of treating type 2 diabeties or obesity by administering to said patient a compound of the present invention or a composition comprising said compound. Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of causing GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane of cells. In another embodiment the cells are adipocytes and in another embodiment the cells are muscle cells. Another emobodiment of the invention realates to a method of treating type 2 diabeties or obesity by administering to said patient a compound of the present invention which causes GLUT4 translocation to the plasma member of cells. In another embodiment the cells are adipocytes and in another embodiment the cells are muscle cells. Another emobodiment of the invention realates to a method of treating type 2 diabeties or obesity by administering to said patient a compound of the present invention which increases insulin sensitivity.

Depending upon the particular condition or disease to be treated additional therapeutic agents which are normally administered to treat that condition may also be present in the compositions of this invention. As used herein additional therapeutic agents that are normally administered to treat a particular disease or condition are known as appropriate for the disease or condition being treated. Such therapeutic agents include but are not limited to analgesics anti inflammatory agents anti helminthics anti arrhythmic agents anti bacterial agents anti viral agents anti hypertensive agents anti coagulants anti depressants anti diabetics anti epileptics anti fungal agents anti gout agents anti malarials anti migraine agents anti muscarinic agents anti neoplastic agents erectile dysfunction improvement agents immunosupressants anti protozoal agents anti thyroid agents anxiolytic agents sedatives hypnotics neuroleptics beta blockers cardiac inotropic agents corticosteroids diuretics anti parkinsonian agents gastro intestinal agents histamine Hand Hreceptor antagonists keratolytics lipid regulating agents anti anginal agents nutritional agents opioid analgesics sex hormones stimulants muscle relaxants anti osteoporosis agents anti obesity agents cognition enhancers anti urinary incontinence agents nutritional oils anti benign prostate hypertrophy agents essential fatty acids non essential fatty acids vitamins minerals appetite suppressants and mixtures thereof.

For example compounds of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof are administered in combination with anti inflammatory or other agents used to treat autoimmune diseases such as 2 Methoxyestradiol EntreMed 802 2 Abatacept ABT 874 Aceclofenac Acitretin Actarit Adalimumab Adapalene AEB 071 AEG 35156 AG 18 AGN 194310 AIN 457 Alefacept Alemtuzumab Alemtuzumab Alicaforsen Alitretinoin oral Ligand Pharmaceuticals Alprostadil lyophilized liposomal AME 527 AMG 108 AMG 714 Autoimmune disease AMG 827 Amifampridine Aminolevulinic acid DUSA Ammonium lactate Foamix Amotosalen AN 0128 AN 2728 Anakinra and other interleukin 1 blockers Anapsos Anthralin Anti CD4 monoclonal antibody 16H5 Anti CD44 monoclonal antibody IM7 Anti CD6 monoclonal antibody h T1 Anti Fas monoclonal antibody Centocor Santen antifolates Chelsea Therapeutics Anti ICAM 1 monoclonal antibody 1A 29 Anti interferon gamma polyclonal antibody Advanced Biotherapy Anti interleukin 8 monoclonal antibody anti LINGO 1 antibody Biogen Idec Anti L selectin monoclonal antibodies PDL BioPharma anti MIF antibody Baxter Healthcare Dyax Antithymocyte globulin anti TNF alpha therapeutics Pharmexa Anti tumour necrosis factor alpha antibody oral Anti tumour necrosis factor monoclonal antibody 3SBio Epitomics Apilimod apolipoprotein E mimetic peptide therapeutics Cognosci Inc. Apratastat Apremilast Apremilast ARRY 162 ART 621 ASF 1075 Atacicept Atizoram ATL 1101 ATL 1102 ATX MS1467 Autologous T cell vaccine Opexa Therapeutics AV 1142742 AVR 118 AVT 02 Azathioprene Azathioprine AZD 5672 AZD 5904 AZD 9056 Baminercept BCI 202 BCX 4208 Beclometasone oral DOR BioPharma Becocalcidiol Belimumab Betamethasone butyrate propionate Betamethasone valerate foam Foamix Betamethasone valerate foam Stiefel Laboratories Bexarotene oral Bexarotene topical BG 00012 Panaclar BG 12 BGC 200134 BHT 3009 Bimosiamose Binetrakin BIO 023 BIO 5192 BMS 582949 Briobacept BT 061 Bucillamine Santen Pharmaceutical BX 471 C 1311 C 201 C 6448 C 9709 C1 inhibitors Johnson Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development Calcipotriol or other vitamin D3 analogues Calcipotriol betamethasone dipropionate Calcithiazol Calcitriol Galderma CAM 3001 Canakinumab Cannabidiol GW Pharmaceuticals cannabinoid CB2 receptor agonists BTG cannabinoid 2 receptor agonists Pharmos Cannabinoids Carbenoxolone topical York Pharma Carbohydrate based anti inflammatories Praxis Fairchild CBP 2011 CCR1 receptor antagonists Pharmacopeia CCR2 receptor antagonists EPIX CCR8 antagonists Millennium Pharmaceuticals CCX 140 CCX 354 CD8 antagonists MediGene CDP 323 CDP323 Celecoxib cell adhesion antagonists ICOS cell cell fusion inhibiting peptides Aplagen Certolizumab pegol CF 101 CH 1504 chemokine inhibitor therapy Merck Serono Ciclosporin Novartis Cladribine Cladribine Clobetasol propionate foam Stiefel Laboratories Clobetasol propionate topical Galderma Clodronic acid Clofarabine CNTO 136 Combretastatin A4 phosphate Controlled release prednisone Nitec SkyePharma CP 195543 CP 481715 CP 690550 CPH 82 CRA 028129 CRB 15 CRx 102 CT 112 Curative Health Services CT 327 CT 737 CT 747 CT 757 CT 767 CTA 018 CXCR3 antagonists Millennium Sanofi Aventis Cyclopamine Cyclophosphamide Cyclosporin A CYT 007 TNFQb DA 7911 Daclizumab DE 096 Delmitide Denileukin diftitox Denosumab deuterated therapeutics CoNCERT Pharmaceuticals Dexamethasone liposomal Dexanabinol Didox Diethylnorspermine dihydroorotate dehydrogenase inhibitors Laboratorios Almirall Dithranol Doramapimod Doramapimod D penicillamine Eculizumab Efalizumab Efipladib Efomycines Bayer ELND 001 ELND 002 Epinastine Epratuzumab Esomeprazole naproxen Estradiol and estrogen receptors Estriol ET 002 Etalocib Etanercept Etoricoxib F 991 Falecalcitriol Fampridine Fingolimod FTY720 Firategrast FK 779 Fluasterone Fumaric acid esters Galiximab GBL 100 GBR 500 GEM SP GEMACBIO gene activated interferon beta Shire Pharmaceuticals genetically modified interferon beta molecules GBF Genz 29155 Giripladib Glatiramer acetate GMDP Goat serum derived polyclonal antibodies Gold salts Golimumab GPX 150 GRC 4039 GSK 1827771 GSK 315234 GSK 681323 GSK 856553 Gusperimus GW 274150 HE 3286 HENO 3 heparanase inhibitors Progen Griffith HF 0220 histone deacetylase inhibitors TopoTarget HSP 10 HSV thymidine kinase gene therapy Human mesenchymal stem cell therapy Osiris Hydroxychloroquine Hydroxyurea Ibudilast Ibuprofen ICN 16064 IdeS Hansa Medical Iguratimod 1 kappa B kinase inhibitors Millennium Pharmaceuticals sanofi aventis Ilodecakin ILV 094 Immune globulin Talecris Biotherapeutics ImmunoKine INCB 18424 INCB 3284 INCB 8696 Inecalcitol Infliximab Inolimomab Inosine interferon beta gene therapy Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Interferon beta variant Nautilus Interferon beta intranasal Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Interferon alpha Amarillo Hayashibara Interferon alpha 2a Interferon alpha n3 Interferons including interferon beta 1a and interferon beta 1b Interferon tau interleukin 23 antagonists Archemix Elan Interleukin 6 inhibitor Y s Therapeutics Interleukin 1 beta antibody Eli Lilly Interleukin 1 receptor type II Amgen interleukin 31 ZymoGenetics Merck Serono Intravenous immunoglobulin ion channel modulators Lectus Therapeutics IPL 423323 IR 208 J 113863 JAK3 inhibitors JB 991 JNK inhibitor Merck Serono K 252a derivatives Bio3 Research Creabilis Therapeutics K 832 Kahalalide F KB 002 KC 706 Kv1.3 inhibitors 4SC Kv1.3 potassium channel inhibitors Bionomics Merck Serono L 869298 Lactobacilli based inflammatory therapy Symbigene Lanreotide Laquinimod Leflunomide LEO 80190 Lestaurtinib Lexipafant LFA 1 antagonists ICOS LIF 313 LL 4218 LLL 3348 LMP 160 LMP 420 long acting interferon beta Bolder Biotechnology long lasting interferon beta Genexine LR 103 Lumiracoxib LX 2931 LY 2127399 Lymphocyte function associated antigen 1 antagonist Bristol Myers Squibb Mahonia aquifolium extract Maraviroc Maxacalcitol MAXY 10 MBP 8298 MDI 101 MDI 301 MDX 018 MDX 1100 MDX 1342 MEDI 545 Meloxicam Merimepodib metalloenzyme inhibitors Merck SeronoNernalis Methotrexate MIF inhibitors Cytokine PharmaSciences Minactivin Minocycline Mitoxantrone or other anti neoplastic agents MIV 701 Mizoribine MK 0812 MLN 1202 MLN 3701 MLN 3897 MM 093 MNX 160 Mometasone nortriptyline Mometasone salicylic acid MOR 103 Moxilubant maleate MP 4 MP 435 Multiple sclerosis vaccine Opexa Therapeutics Muscular dystrophy gene therapy Transgene MV 9411 Mycophenolate mofetil Naltrexone nanobodies Ablynx Naproxen Natalizumab Natalizumab or other anti alpha 4 integrin inhibitors NBI 107 NBI 108 NCX 1022 Nerispirdine Neurovax NF kappa B decoy oligonucleotide AnGes MG NPC 16570 NPI 1302a 3 NTx 488 regimen Stem Cell Therapeutics Ocrelizumab Odulimomab Ofatumumab OM 8980 oncostatin M therapeutics Genodyssee Onercept ONO 4641 Opebacan Oprelvekin Oral human gammaglobulin Ostabolin topical Zelos Therapeutics Otelixizumab P 16 Transition Therapeutics p38 kinase inhibitor Bristol Myers Squibb p38 MAP kinase inhibitor Amgen p38 MAP kinase inhibitors Kemia PA 1093 Paclitaxel Angiotech Paquinimod PARP inhibitors Inotek Pazopanib PD 170262 PD 360324 Peginterferon alfa 2b PEG interferon beta 1a Biogen Idec PEG interferon beta 1a Merck Serono PEG interleukin 29 ZymoGenetics Pentostatin Perampanel PF 755616 PH 797804 phosphodiesterase IV inhibitors BTG photosensitisers Molteni Therapeutics PI 2301 PIC 060 Pimecrolimus Pimecrolimus topical Pioglitazone Pirfenidone Piroxicam beta cyclodextrin Pixantrone Pixantrone BBR 2778 PMI 001 PMX 53 potassium channel blockers Scion Pralnacasan Prednisolone farnesil Priliximab Prolactin protein therapeutics Scil Proteins GmbH PRTX 100 Psoriasis vaccine Astralis Pacira PUVA PXD 118490 R 115866 R 1295 R 788 R 85355 Rabeximod recombinant immunoglobulin P technology MultiCell Technologies REGN 88 remyelinating monoclonal antibodies Acorda Therapeutics Mayo Clinic Resveratrol Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Retinoids Riluzole Rimacalib Rituximab Roflumilast Rose bengal sodium Rosiglitazone Rostaporfin RPI 78M RTL 1000 RWJ 445380 RWJ 68354 S 7 Transition Therapeutics SA 9499 Salicylic acid Samarium 153 SM lexidronam Sargramostim SBI 087 SBP 002 SC 12267 SC 53228 SCIO 323 SCIO 469 selectin antagonists Revotar SF 1019 Simvastatin Sirolimus small glycanic drugs Endotis small molecule Cathepsin S inhibitors Medivir SSR 150106 Statins stem cell therapeutics Histostem stem cell therapies BrainStorm Cell Therapeutics stem cell based therapeutics Pluristem Therapeutics Steroids such as methylprednisolone Sulfasalazine suppressor of cytokine signalling molecules Zenylh Therapeutics SYI 2074 Synthetic triterpenoids Reata Pharmaceuticals T 487 T 5224 TA 5493 Tacalcitol Tacrolimus Tadekinig alfa TAK 783 Talactoferrin alfa Talampanel Tamibarotene Tazarotene Tazarotene topical TBC 4746 Temsirolimus Teplizumab Terameprocol Teriflunomide Teriparatide topical Manhattan Pharmaceuticals tetracycline derivatives Paratek Pharmaceuticals TH 9402 Thalidomide therapeutics Altor BioScience Tigderimus Tioguanine Tisocalcitate TJ 114 TJ 41 TK 54 TK gene therapy MolMed TNF receptor antagonists Fulcrum Pharmaceuticals Tocilizumab toll like receptor antagonists Idera topical anti TNF alpha therapeutics York Pharma Topical ciclosporin topical methotrexate NanoCyte topical NSAID Milestone Pharmaceuticals Tovaxin TP 10 Tranilast tricyclic bis enones Reata Pharmaceuticals Trimerised apolipoprotein A1 Trimetrexate TrkA receptor inhibitors VM Discovery TRU 015 TV 3606 TV 5010 type I interferons Alios BioPharma UR 1505 Urocanic acid BioC is Pharma Ustekinumab Valategrast Valdecoxib vascular adhesion protein 1 inhibitors La Jolla Pharmaceutical VEL 0230 Verteporfin VGX 1027 Visilizumab VIT 100 Vitamin D vitamin D receptor modulators Eli Lilly vitamin D signal amplifiers Cytochroma VLA 4 antagonists Voclosporin VT 111 VTP 201227 VX 702 VX 765 WAY 195725 WBI 1001 XA 547 Xaliproden XOMA 052 Z 92 Zanolimumab ZCL 8 ZD 158252 ZK 158252 ZRx 101 and combination therapies thereof.

In other embodiments the analgesic agents which are administered in combination with the compounds of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof include but are not limited to chlorobutanol clove eugenol alfentanil allylprodine alphaprodine anileridine benzylmorphine bezitramide buprenorphine butorphanol clonitazene codeine codeine methyl bromide codeine phosphate codeine sulfate desomorphine dextromoramide dezocine diampromide dihydrocodeine dihydrocodeinone enol acetate dihydromorphine dimenoxadol dimepheptanol dimethylthiambutene dioxaphetyl butyrate dipipanone eptazocine ethoheptazine ethylmethylthiambutene ethylmorphine etonitazene fentanyl hydrocodone hydromorphone hydroxypethidine isomethadone ketobemidone levorphanol lofentanil meperidine meptazinol metazocine methadone hydrochloride metopon morphine morphine hydrochloride morphine sulfate myrophine nalbuphine narceine nicomorphine norlevorphanol normethadone normorphine norpipanone opium oxycodone oxymorphone papavereturn pentazocine phenadoxone phenazocine phenoperidine piminodine piritramide proheptazine promedol propiram propoxyphene remifentanil sufentanil tilidine aceclofenac acetaminophen acetaminosalol acetanilide acetylsalicylsalicylic acid alclofenac alminoprofen aloxiprin aluminum bis acetylsalicylate aminochlorthenoxazin 2 amino 4 picoline aminopropylon aminopyrine ammonium salicylate amtolmetin guacil antipyrine antipyrine salicylate antrafenine apazone aspirin benorylate benoxaprofen benzpiperylon benzydamine bermoprofen bromfenac p bromoacetanilide 5 bromosalicylic acid acetate bucetin bufexamac bumadizon butacetin calcium acetylsalicylate carbamazepine carbiphene carsalam chlorthenoxazin e choline salicylate cinchophen ciramadol clomctacin clonixin cropropamide crotcthanudc dexoxadrol dilcnanuzole ditlunisal dihydroxyaluminum acetylsalicylate dipyrocetyl dipyrorre fanurfazone entcnanuc acid epirizole etersalatc elhcnzamide ethoxazcne etodolac felbinac fenoprofen floctafenine flufenamic acid fluoresone flupirtine fluproyuazone flurbiprofen fosfosal gentisic acid glafenine ibufenac imidazole salicylate indomethacin indoprofen isofezolac isoladol isonixin ketoprofen ketorolac p lactophenetide lefetamine lornoxicam loxoprofen lysine acetylsalicylate magnesium cetylsalicylate methotrimeprazine metofoline mofezolac morazone morpholine salicylate naproxen nefopam nifenazone 5 nitro 2 propoxyacetanilide parsalmide perisoxal phenacetin phenazopyridine hydrochloride phenocoll phenopyrazone phenyl acetylsalicylate phenyl salicylate phenyramidol pipebuzone piperylone propacetamol propyphenazone ramifenazone rimazolium metilsulfate salacetamide salicin salicylamide salicylamide O acetic acid salicylsulfuric acid salsalate salverine simetride sodium salicylate suprofen talniflumate tenoxicam terofenamate tetrandrine tinoridine tolfenamic acid tramadol tropesin viminol xenbucin zomepirac pregabalin gabapentin carbamazepine NGX 4010 NP 1 amitriptyline nortriptyline ruboxistaurin duloxetine memantine lamotrigine REN 1654 Neurodex Prosaptide harkoseride Liprostin pirfenidone AS 3201 TAK 428 QR 333 capsaicin amitriptyline amoxapine chlomipramine desipramine doxepin imipramine nortriptyline protriptyline trimipramine and combinations thereof.

In other embodiments compounds of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable composition thereof are administered in combination with other agents to increase efficacy such as ethaverine lomerizine bifonazole ticonazole and harmine.

Those additional agents may be administered separately from an inventive compound containing composition as part of a multiple dosage regimen. Alternatively those agents may be part of a single dosage form mixed together with a compound of this invention in a single composition. If administered as part of a multiple dosage regime the two active agents may be submitted simultaneously sequentially or within a period of time from one another normally within five hours from one another.

As used herein the term combination combined and related terms refers to the simultaneous or sequential administration of therapeutic agents in accordance with this invention. For example a compound of the present invention may be administered with another therapeutic agent simultaneously or sequentially in separate unit dosage forms or together in a single unit dosage form. Accordingly the present invention provides a single unit dosage form comprising a compound of formula I an additional therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle.

The amount of both an inventive compound and additional therapeutic agent in those compositions which comprise an additional therapeutic agent as described above that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. Preferably compositions of this invention should be formulated so that a dosage of between 0.01 100 mg kg body weight day of a provided compound can be administered.

In those compositions which comprise an additional therapeutic agent that additional therapeutic agent and the compound of this invention may act synergistically. Therefore the amount of additional therapeutic agent in such compositions will be less than that required in a monotherapy utilizing only that therapeutic agent. In such compositions a dosage of between 0.01 100 g kg body weight day of the additional therapeutic agent can be administered.

The amount of additional therapeutic agent present in the compositions of this invention will be no more than the amount that would normally be administered in a composition comprising that therapeutic agent as the only active agent. Preferably the amount of additional therapeutic agent in the presently disclosed compositions will range from about 50 to 100 of the amount normally present in a composition comprising that agent as the only therapeutically active agent.

Compounds of the present invention are prepared according to methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such methods include those described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 946 792 2 943 089 2 948 726 3 592 814 5 763 443 and 3 499 899 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Provided compounds are also prepared by methods substantially similar to those described by O Sullivan et al. 1988 31 567 572 and O Sullivan. 1984 52 53 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

A library of compounds was assembled of mostly FDA approved drugs as well as drugs approved abroad and drug candidates that have reached Phase II clinical trials. The vast majority of drugs in the library including clofazimine were included even though it would be unexpected for them to have the ability to inhibt T cell activity. Clofazimine was identified as a promising hit from another cell based screen for novel inhibitors of the intracellular TCR signaling pathway leading to the transcriptional activation of IL 2. Through a systematic examination of different steps in intracellular TCR signaling it was unexpectedly discovered that clofazimine blocked calcium signaling in T cells by directly interfering with the function of the Kv1.3 channel. Importantly it was demonstrated that clofazimine was effective in preventing human T cell mediated skin graft rejection in a reconstituted mouse model of skin transplantation. The distinct structure of clofazimine also offers a novel scaffold for the development of future generations of immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory agents.

Jurkat E6.1 ATCC TIB152 T cells were maintained in RPMI medium 1640 Invitrogen supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine penicillin 50 g ml and streptomycin 50 g ml . HFF 1 ATCC SCRC 1041 fibroblasts were maintained in low glucose DMEM Invitrogen supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine penicillin 50 g ml and streptomycin 50 g ml . Jurkat E6.1 cells were transfected with linearized pIL2 Luc Neo and linearized pMEP4 by electroporation followed by selection for resistance to 400 g ml hygromycin. The stably transfected IL 2 reporter cell line Jurkat IL 2Luc was maintained in hygromycin which was omitted from medium for the screening and other assays.

Jurkat IL 2Luc cells were seeded in 96 well plates Nunc 136102 at 2 10 180 L per well. Cells were incubated with 10 M final concentration drugs from the library for 1 h before they were stimulated with 1 M ionomycin and 40 nM phorbol myristate acetate PMA for an additional 16 h. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation. Upon removal of the culture medium lysis assay buffer was added into each well. The luciferase activity was determined as per the manufacturer s instructions.

HFF 1 human forebrain fibroblast cells 2 10in 190 l were seeded into 96 well plates and were incubated with drugs from the library for 4 days. Cells were washed with PBS twice before they were treated with 1 M final concentration Calcein AM invitrogen C1430 for 4 h. Plates were directly counted by a fluorescent plate reader.

Jurkat E6.1 T cells 1 10in 180 l were seeded into 96 well plates. Cells in each well were treated with different concentrations of clofazimine for 1 h before 1 M ionomycin and 40 nM PMA were added. The incubation was continued for 2 days. The plates were centrifuged at 1 200 g for 5 min and the supernatant from each well was collected followed by ELISA detection of IL 2. The primary antibody biotinylated secondary antibody and HRP conjugated avidin were purchase from BD Pharmingen.

Jurkat T cells were pretreated with indicated compounds for 1 h before 3 M final concentration ionomycin was added. Cells were harvested after 30 min and lysed in a lysis buffer 40 mM Tris pH 7.8 1 NP 40 10 mM EDTA 60 mM NaPOand common protease inhibitors by sonication. NFATc2 was resolved by 8 SDS PAGE followed by Western blot analysis using anti NFAT antibodies Santa cruz Sc 7296 1 100 dilution .

JurkaT cells were attached to L lysine coated glass dishes MatTek . Cells were loaded with fura 2 AM Invitrogen F 1201 for 45 min before they were washed sequentially with growth medium and Ca free HBSS. Fluorescence excitation wavelengths were set at 350 and 380 nm respectively on a Zeiss Axiovert 200M microscope while emission wavelength was set at 510 nm. Changes in intracellular calcium concentrations were determined by fluorescence intensity ratio F F .

Patch pipettes pulled from glass capillaries inner diameter 1.5 mm Kimble products with a horizontal puller Sutter instruments Modell P 97 were fire polished and had resistances between 2 and 4 MOhm. Patch clamp experiments were performed in the tight seal whole cell configuration at room temperature 22 24 C. . High resolution current recordings were acquired by a computer based patch clamp amplifier system EPC 9 HEKA . Immediately following establishment of the whole cell configuration every two seconds voltage ramps of 50 ms duration spanning the voltage range of 100 to 100 mV for Jurkat T cells and 150 to 150 mV for HEK293 were delivered from a holding potential V of 70 mV for Jurkats and 0 mV for HEK293 cells over a period of 300 600 s. Heterologously expressed potassium currents Kv 1.1 Kv 1.2 Kv 1.3 Kv 1.5 and Kv3.1 were acquired using a voltage ramp from 100 mV to 100 mV over 500 ms and at 2 s Kv3.1 Kv1.2 or 5 s intervals from a Vof 80 mV. All voltages were corrected for a liquid junction potential of 10 mV. Currents were filtered at 2.9 kHz and digitized at 100 ms intervals. Capacitive currents and series resistance were determined and corrected before each voltage ramp using the automatic capacitance compensation of the EPC 9. Kv 1.3 currents were normalized to the point of application of 5 M clofazimine. Kv1.3 currents in Jurkat T cells were measured at 80 mV. Heterologously expressed Kv1.1 Kv1.2 Kv1.3 Kv1.5 and Kv3.1 were assessed at 80 mV except in Figure S where currents were additionally measured at the more physiological voltage of 0 mV. CRAC currents in HEK293 cells were assessed at 80 mV. Standard external solution contained in mM 140 NaCl 1 CaCl 2 MgCl 2.8 KCl 10 HEPES NaOH with pH at 7.2 and osmolarity 300 320 mosm. The solution contained 10 mM CaClin the case of CRAC measurements. Internal standard solution contained in mM 120 K glutamate 1 MgCl 8 NaCl 10 HEPES KOH 10 K BAPTA with pH 7.2 and osmolarity 290 310 mosm. The internal solution was supplemented with 20 M IPfor CRAC measurements. Substance application was performed on individual cells using a wide mouth glass pipette connected to a pneumatic pressure device.

Jurkat T cells treated with clofazimine were centrifuged onto L lysine coated coverslips. Cells were fixed with 4 p formaldehyde for 15 min. The cells were washed in PBS permeabilized by 20 C. methanol and blocked with 10 donkey serum in PBS. The fixed cells were then incubated with Kv1.3 primary antibody sc 17239 at 1 100 dilution for 1 h. Cells were washed in PBS 3 5 min and incubated with donkey anti goat Cy5 antibodies for an additional 1 h. Cells were then washed three times in PBS mounted and photographed. Mounting was performed using Vectashield mounting medium Vector Laboratories and images were captured using either a Zeiss LSM510 confocal microscope. Merged images were compiled using LSM5 Image Examiner or Adobe Photoshop CS.

The signaling pathway emanating from TCR and leading to the transcriptional activation of the IL 2 promoter is dependent on the second messenger calcium and calcineurin that has been shown to be a proven target for both cyclosporine A and FK506. We thus engineered a reporter cell line by stably integrating a luciferase reporter gene under the control of the human minimal IL 2 proximal promoter into the genome of Jurkat T cells. Upon stimulation with PMA and ionomycin the pharmacologic mimics of TCR a 20 fold increase in luciferase activity was observed data not shown . Using the reporter cell line we screened a library of mostly FDA approved drugs at a final concentration of 10 M using the IL 2 reporter assay in 96 well format. The known immunosuppressive drugs CsA and FK506 were both positive hits validating the screen. Although it was not the most potent hit we decided to further investigate clofazimine .

The ability of clofazimine to inhibit TCR mediated IL 2 production was confirmed using transiently transfected IL 2 luciferase reporter gene in Jurkat T cells and a freshly prepared clofazimine stock solution. Clofazimine inhibited PMA ionomycin stimulated IL 2 luciferase reporter gene activation with an ICof 22 nM . It also inhibited the activation of endogenous IL 2 promoter in response to PMA and thapsigargin with an ICof 1.1 M . Importantly clofazimine inhibited human mixed lymphocyte reaction with an ICof 0.9 M similar to its effect on endogenous IL 2 production in Jurkat T cells.

The transcription activation of the IL 2 promoter is dependent on three key transcription factors NF AT NF B and AP 1. We thus determined whether clofazimine affected the activation of each of those transcription factors using their respective luciferase reporters. As shown in while the NFAT luciferase reporter was as sensitive to clofazimine as the IL 2 promoter driven luciferase reporter gene the NF B luciferase reporter is about 40 fold less sensitive to clofazimine. In contrast the AP 1 luciferase reporter gene activity was enhanced rather than inhibited by higher concentrations of clofazimine . A similar stimulation of the AP 1 reporter was also observed at higher concentrations of CsA suggesting that clofazimine may affect the same signaling pathway as CsA.

The selective inhibitory effects of clofazimine on both NFAT and NF B over AP 1 suggested that it is likely to affect the activation of their common upstream regulator the protein phosphatase calcineurin. To assess this possibility we determined whether clofazimine like CsA and FK506 affected the dephosphorylation of endogenous NFAT in response to ionomycin treatment. Similar to CsA clofazimine inhibited ionomycin induced dephosphorylation of NFATc2 in a dose dependent manner . In addition clofazimine also blocked the ionomycin induced nuclear translocation of NFAT in Jurkat T cells Figure S B C . Together these results indicated that clofazimine inhibited the activation of the protein phosphatase calcineurin in vivo. We then examined the effects of clofazimine on calcineurin in vitro. Clofazimine had no effect on the enzymatic activity of calcineurin with either para nitrophenylphosphate or immunoprecipitated endogenous NFATc2 as substrates . Nor did it affect the binding of GST NFATc2 to recombinant calcineurin . Interestingly when the association between the N terminal fragment of NFAT and the constitutively active form of calcineurin Cn C was examined in a mammalian two hybrid assay clofazimine inhibited the calcium dependent NFAT calcineurin interaction in a dose dependent manner . Thus clofazimine appeared to act at a step upstream of calcineurin activation in vivo raising the possibility that it affected either the release of intracellular calcium or calcium influx through the plasma membrane calcium channels.

We employed live cell imaging to determine the effect of clofazimine on changes in intracellular calcium concentrations in response to thapsigargin treatment. Using the calcium indicator dye Fura 2AM we were able to observe entry of calcium into Jurkat T cells upon treatment of cells with thapsigargin followed by addition of 2 mM Ca into the extracellular medium . Pretreatment of Jurkat T cells with known CRAC channel inhibitors econazole or gadolinium abrogated calcium entry as expected . However when cells were preincubated with clofazimine for 5 min the calcium entry of only about a quarter of cells are responsive to inhibition by the drug . When the preincubation time was increased to up to 2 h there was a time dependent increase in the proportion of cells that becomes sensitive to clofazimine . That only a quarter of Jurkat T cells are responsive to inhibition by clofazimine at 5 min may reflect the heterogeneity of this cell line. The precise underlying cause of the time dependent increase in clofazimine responsive cell population however remains unknown. The effect of clofazimine on the extracellular calcium influx suggested that it might affect the CRAC channel. We thus examined the effects of clofazimine in reconstituted CRAC channels using ectopically expressed CRACM 1 Orai 1 CRACM2 or CRACM3 subunits co expressed with STIM1 in HEK 293T cells. But we observed no effects of clofazimine on the reconstituted CRAC current ruling out the possibility that clofazimine directly interacts and interferes with the known components of the CRAC channel.

Given that clofazimine inhibited calcineurin activation in T cells we next determined whether clofazimine affected the oscillation frequency of the CRAC current in Jurkat T cells which has been shown to be critical and selective for sustained activation of calcineurin and NFAT to drive cytokine gene expression. Indeed addition of clofazimine significantly disrupted the oscillation patterns of the CRAC current induced by a low concentration of thapsigargin. It both decreased the amplitude and increased the period of the calcium oscillation . Over 80 of cells exhibited elongation of the oscillation period upon treatment with clofazimine indicating that this effect is statistically significant .

The pronounced effects of clofazimine on the oscillation patterns of calcium current together with the lack of effect of clofazimine on reconstituted CRAC current raised the possibility that it may affect other channels particularly potassium channels which are known to regulate the CRAC current. We thus determined the effects of clofazimine on the activity of various known CRAC regulating channels expressed in activated T cells. As shown in clofazimine had a dramatic effect on Kv1.3 current in a time and dose dependent manner. It inhibited the Kv1.3 potassium current with an ICof 300 nM and a Hill s coefficient of 0.75 consistent with its potency for the inhibition of both endogenous IL 2 production in Jurkat T cells and the human mixed lymphocyte reaction . In contrast the activity of several other channels known to modulate CRAC current in T cells including the calcium activated IKCa1 potassium channel and the TRPM4 channel remained unaffected by clofazimine at up to 10 M concentration data not shown .

To further investigate the specificity of clofazimine we conducted a series of experiments testing the drug against several heterologously expressed potassium channels including mouse Kv1.3. As shown in clofazimine strongly suppressed mouse Kv1.3 stably expressed in L929 cells with an ICof 470 nM and a Hill coefficient of 0.5 . All other Kv channel species tested Mouse Kv1.1 rat Kv1.2 human Kv1.5 and mouse Kv3.1 proved considerably less sensitive to clofazimine blocking less than 50 of current at a 10 M concentration . This indicates that their ICvalues for clofazimine are above 10 M. Interestingly there seems to be some voltage dependence to the effect on Kv channels other than Kv1.3 since the clofazimine block is smaller at 0 mV compared to 80 mV . Since most cells do not depolarize beyond 0 mV at least not for appreciable amounts of time this represents the more physiologically relevant parameter in regards to the inhibitory effect of clofazimine. Taken together these data suggest that clofazimine is highly selective for the Kv1.3 channel.

Kv1.3 is known to exhibit a polarized cell surface expression pattern which can be visualized using polyclonal antibodies in conjunction with Cy5 labeled secondary antibodies . We took advantage of the intrinsic fluorescence of clofazimine which can be detected using the same filter for FITC and compared the distribution patterns of clofazimine and Kv1.3. Indeed clofazimine displayed the same subcellular localization pattern as that of Kv1.3 suggesting that clofazimine is likely to be associated with Kv1.3 in vivo.

To further assess the physiological relevance of Kv1.3 as a molecular target for clofazimine we first determined the effects of ectopic overexpression of Kv1.3 on the sensitivity of the IL 2 reporter gene to clofazimine. As shown in overexpression of Kv1.3 led to a gain in resistance of the IL 2 reporter to clofazimine in a dose dependent manner. At the highest concentration of Kv1.3 expression plasmid used 2 g there was a 35 fold increase in the ICvalue of clofazimine. Next we downregulated the expression of endogenous Kv1.3 using lentivirus mediated RNA interference. Of a total of nine constructs tested the most effective construct shKv1.3 4 partially downregulated the protein level of Kv1.3 by ca. 65 . A comparison of the dose response curves of Jurkat cells transduced with shKv1.3 4 lentiviruses and those transduced with viruses carrying shRNA against EGFP revealed that knockdown of Kv1.3 increased the sensitivity of the IL 2 luciferase reporter to clofazimine with a nearly 5 fold decrease in the ICvalues for clofazimine . In contrast knockdown of Kv1.3 had no effect on the sensitivity of the IL 2 luciferase reporter to CsA . The changes in the sensitivity of the IL 2 reporter gene to clofazimine upon overexpression or knockdown of Kv1.3 provide strong support for the notion that Kv1.3 is a specific molecular target of clofazimine.

Kv1.3 has been implicated in T cell activation and has served as a molecular target for developing novel immunosuppressive agents. Given that clofazimine is already used in the clinic albeit for a completely different indication we wondered whether it is efficacious in animal models of organ transplantation. Initial experiments using mouse skin or heart transplant models failed to show any beneficial effects of clofazimine in those models. These negative results are not surprising given that Kv1.3 plays distinct roles in humans and rodents as it has been shown that Kv1.3 is dispensable in mice due to the up regulation of other chloride channels. Consistent with this notion we also failed to observe a dose dependent inhibition of IL 2 production in primary mouse T cells and murine mixed lymphocyte reaction . Moreover similar results were obtained for mixed lymphocyte reaction using cells derived from rats making it difficult to evaluate the in vivo effects of clofazimine using well established animal models. To overcome this problem we turned to a model of reconstituted human T cell mediated human skin rejection in immunodeficient mice. We thus transplanted human foreskin into Pfb Rag2 mice that lack T B and NK cells. Upon healing of the skin graft for about 7 days a total of 100 million human peripheral blood lymphocytes from an unrelated donor were adoptively transferred into the same animals. The animals were treated orally with either DMSO control or clofazimine at 50 mg kg day for a total of 10 days . For the control group the transplanted foreskin was rejected with a median survival time of 11 days . For the group treated with clofazimine the skin survived even beyond the cessation of the drug treatment with a mean survival time of 35 days which is comparable to the efficacy for FK506 treatment data not shown . It is noteworthy that in a parallel experiment using murine skin and total murine T cells clofazimine had no effect on the survival of murine skin transplant . Together these results demonstrated that clofazimine is uniquely effective in inhibiting human T cell mediated graft rejection with no significant effect on murine T cells.

The targeting sequence of sh Kv1.3 4 is 5 GCCACCTTCTCGCGAAACAT 3 SEQ ID NO 1 . Recombinant lentiviruses were generated using a three plasmid system described Pan et al. 2004. 279 14477 . Virus was harvested and concentrated 1 50 2 days after transfection. Jurkat T cells were transduced by concentrated virus at a ratio of 5 10cells 150 l virus. Cells were cultured for two days before they were harvested for Western blot analysis and other experiments.

The human MLR was established by coculturing normal human PBMN responder lymphocytes 0.5 10 with an equal number of miomycin C treated stimulator cells in RPMI1640 complete medium. The cells were incubated with varying doses of clofazimine at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 COfor 4 days. Then 1 Ci of H thymidine was added into culture and incubation was continued for 6 h. The cells were harvested and H thymidine incorporated into cells was measured in a liquid scintillation counter.

The experimental procedure is similar to that described previously. Clofazimine suspension in olive oil was administered p.o. at 50 mg kg day in a total volume of 0.2 ml per administration.

Oral Formulation that Forms an Emulsion Upon Introduction to Aqueous Environment of Gastro Intestinal Tract US 20040142040A1 

A first self emulsifying nanosuspension containing clofazimine can be prepared by dispersing clofazimine nanoparticles in capric acid and Cremophor EL. The nanoparticles can be prepared by wet milling using for example Dyno milling equipment followed by freeze drying. Pluronic F108 can be used as a coating agent in the wet milling process. The mean particle size of the nanoparticles can be measured by Horiba LA 910 laser scattering particle size analyzer or similar equipment. Clofazimine can be dispersed within the capric acid and Cremophor EL using a sonicator with an example resulting self emulsifying nanosuspension including 3.8 wt clofazimine nanoparticle 1.4 wt Pluronic F108 47.4 wt capric acid and 47.4 wt Cremophor EL.

A batch of hard cap controlled release dosage forms according to the present invention can then be manufactured using the first self emulsifying formulation. The first dosage forms can be prepared using clear hard caps which may be of size 0 or other sizes. The first dosage forms can incorporate a bi layer osmotic composition and can be coated with a rate controlling semipermeable membrane. An exit orifice can be provided in the first dosage forms using a mechanical drill with drilling depth control.

To prepare the bi layer osmotic composition used in the dosage forms an osmotic granulation can be prepared using a Glatt fluid bed granulator FBG or similar equipment. The osmotic granulation can include NaCl sodium carboxymethylcellulose NaCMC hydroxypropylmethylcellulose HPMC hydroxypropyl cellulose HPC Mg stearate and red ferric oxide. The NaCl can be sized screened using a Quardo mill having a 21 mesh screen and the speed set on maximum or similar equipment . The sized NaCl NaCMC HPMC and red ferric oxide can be blended in a granulator bowl in the following weight percentages 58.75 NaCMC 30 sized screened NaCl 5.0 HPMC E 5 and 1.0 red ferric oxide. In a separate container a granulating solution can be prepared by dissolving 5.0 wt HPC EF in purified water. The osmotic granulation can then be prepared by spraying the granulation solution onto the fluidized powders until all of the solution is applied and the powders are granular. A final osmotic granulation can be completed by blending 0.25 wt Mg stearate with the prepared granules.

The barrier layer to be included in the bi layer osmotic composition to be included in the first hard cap controlled release dosage forms can be formed using Kollidon SR. The final osmotic granulation can be used to prepare a bi layer osmotic composition by compressing an amount of the final osmotic granulation and an amount of Kollidone SR into a bi layer tablet using Carver tableting press or similar equipment . Two hundred and seventy mg of the final osmotic granulation can be added to a 0.70 cm punch lower punch modified ball upper punch modified and then can be tamped. 80 mg of Kollidone SR can then be added to the punch and the osmotic granulation and Kollidone SR can be compressed under a force of about 1 metric ton to form a tableted bi layer osmotic composition.

To load the self emulsifying nanosuspension into the capsules to be used to prepare the first hard caps the capsules can be separated into two segments a body and a cap . The self emulsifying nanosuspension can then be loaded into the body of each capsule using standard filling techniques. Each capsule can be provided with 526 mg of the self emulsifying nanosuspension. The clofazimine dose of the resulting hard cap controlled release dosage form can be therefore about 20 mg. After the capsule bodies are filled pre coating assemblies can be formed by positioning a bi layer osmotic composition in each filled capsule body.

The pre coating assemblies can then be coated with a semipermeable membrane. The semipermeable membrane can be provided over the pre coating assemblies included by weight 70 cellulose acetate 398 10 and 30 Pluronic F 68. To form the semipermeable membrane a coating composition can first be formed by dissolving appropriate amounts of cellulose acetate 398 10 and Pluronic F 68 in acetone to form a coating solution having a solid content of 4 by weight. The pre coating assemblies can then be sprayed with the coating solution in a 12 Freud Hi coater or similar equipment until each is provided with a semipermeable membrane weighing about 131 mg.

After membrane coating the first hard cap controlled release dosage forms can be completed by drying the coated sub assemblies and providing each of the dried and coated sub assemblies with an exit orifice. The coated sub assemblies can be dried in a Blue oven at 30 C. overnight and each of the dried sub assemblies can then be provided with an exit orifice measuring about 0.5 mm in diameter. The exit orifices can be provided in each dosage form by drilling the drug layer side using a mechanical drill with drilling depth control.

The release rate profile of the first hard cap controlled release dosage forms can be measured using a USP II paddle method in 2 by weight aqueous solution of Pluronic F108 pH 6.8 .

Biodegradable micro and nanospheres containing 25 to 80 w w clofazimine can be suitably prepared herein by a solvent evaporation extraction procedure from an emulsion system Ramtoola et al. 1992 9 415 23 . The polymers used can be poly D L lactide having a MW of 16 000 and intrinsic viscosity i.v. of 0.2 dl g R 203 Boehringer Ingelheim or poly D L lactide co glycolide 50 50 of i.v. 0.5 dl g RG 504 Boehringer Ingelheim .

Clofazimine and the encapsulating polymer can be dissolved in methylene chloride. Suitable methylene chloride to polymer ratios are 1 2 ml methylene chloride g of R 203 and 3 ml of methylene chloride g of RG 504. This drug polymer solution can then be suitably emulsified in an aqueous PVA solution suitably 0.27 in a ratio of about 10 ml of the drug polymer solution to 100 ml of the PVA solution and mixed at high speed suitably 20 000 24 000 rpm for 2 min followed by stirring at 1000 rpm for 2 hr. The particles can be recovered by centrifugation and dried overnight in a vacuum oven.

The particles produced can be characterized by scanning electron microscopy such as S360 Leica Cambridge and sized using a Malvern 2600 Laser Sizer or similar equipment. The particles can also be characterized by X ray diffraction such as Daco MP 500 Siemens . The drug content of the microparticles can be assayed by HPLC using a Novapak C8 column at 70 C. using a mobile phase of acetronitrile water methanol phosphoric acid 900 525 75 0.075 at a flow rate of 2 ml min with UV detection at 210 nm. The solubility of clofazimine can be measured at 37 C. in increasing concentrations of sodium lauryl sulfate SLS solutions to determine sink conditions for dissolution studies.

Clofazimine between 1 and 100 mg and phosphocoline derivative DOPC between 100 and 1000 mg can be mixed in dichloromethane 1.5 mL . After the lipid and drug are completely dissolved the solvent can be removed by nitrogen gas transfer and the residue can be subsequently dried overnight under vacuum to yield a homogeneous film of clofazimine. The film can be hydrated with PBS at pH 7.4 3.15 mL and vortexed to give a lipid formulation of clofazimine compound lipid mole to mole ratio between 0.01 and 1 . The lipid formulation can be characterized by polarizing light microscopy Olympus BX51 or similar equipment and differential scanning calorimetry TA Instruments Model Q 100 New Castle Del. at heating rate of 10 C. minute with N2 gas flow rate of 50 mL minute . If no crystals are visible in the polarizing light microscopy image this observation indicates complete solubilization of clofazimine in the lipid formulation.

While we have described a number of embodiments of this invention it is apparent that our basic examples may be altered to provide other embodiments that utilize the compounds and methods of this invention. Therefore it will be appreciated that the scope of this invention is to be defined by the appended claims rather than by the specific embodiments that have been represented by way of example.

