---

title: Processing orders for wireless service
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for processing orders for wireless service. An order for a wireless device and a wireless service plan is obtained in at least one computing device from a client. The wireless service plan is provided by one of a plurality of wireless carriers. A unique identifier of the wireless device is obtained from a fulfillment system after the wireless device has been pulled from an inventory for fulfillment. A request for activation of the wireless device and the wireless service plan is sent to a system of the one of the wireless carriers. The unique identifier is provided in the request to the system of the one of the wireless carriers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204794&OS=08204794&RS=08204794
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08204794
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100525
---
With numerous wireless carriers offering service customers are often shopping around for a wireless plan having for example a lower price more features or improved coverage. For instance a customer of one wireless carrier may choose to switch to another wireless carrier or to upgrade to a different service plan from the same wireless carrier. Other customers may be seeking to establish wireless service for the first time or to switch to a wireless carrier from a landline carrier.

The present disclosure relates to processing orders for wireless service. In various embodiments a wireless reseller for example may have a network site that enables customers to order wireless service from any of several different wireless carriers. Such wireless carriers may offer different wireless service plans with different feature sets and pricing. Wireless devices may be sold in conjunction with wireless service plans. The network site may enable new customers to establish service and or current customers to upgrade or modify existing service plans. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices one or more computing devices one or more computing devices one or more carrier servers and one or more clients in data communication by way of a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. In one embodiment the computing device represents a virtualized computer system executing on one or more physical computing systems. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device for example include an electronic commerce system a workflow engine a wireless order workflow and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The electronic commerce system is executed in order to facilitate the online purchase of items such as for example wireless devices and wireless service plans over the network . Such wireless devices may comprise for example personal digital assistants cellular telephones computers and other devices. However it is understood that the electronic commerce system may ultimately facilitate the purchase of any type of item. The electronic commerce system also performs various backend functions associated with the online presence of a merchant in order to facilitate the online purchase of items as will be described. For example the electronic commerce system generates network pages such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided to client devices in response to requests for the purposes of selecting items for purchase rental download lease or other form of consumption and to perform other tasks as will be described.

Among other applications the electronic commerce system includes a workflow engine that is configured to execute one or more wireless order workflows to perform various backend processing of an order for a wireless device and or a wireless service plan. The workflow engine may comprise for example any commercially available workflow execution engine. The wireless order workflows may be defined for example in extensible markup language XML business process execution language BPEL XML process definition language XPDL and or any other language suitably adapted for defining workflows.

The data stored in the data store includes for example customer data order data carrier data wireless service plans features wireless device data and potentially other data. The customer data may include any data relating to wireless customers including account information such as username password personal identification number PIN or other security credentials current wireless carrier information current wireless service plan information contractual status of the customer with one or more wireless carriers customer name shipping addresses billing addresses payment instruments shopping carts wish lists and other information associated with customers as can be appreciated.

The order data may include any data relating to orders for example orders for wireless devices and or wireless service plans . Such order data may encompass orders for new wireless service orders for modifications or upgrades to existing wireless service and other orders. The carrier data may include data relating to wireless carriers for which the electronic commerce system is configured to offer service and or compatible wireless devices . Such data may describe parameters used to govern whether a customer is eligible for service from the wireless carrier parameters used to enter the order and or activate the service with a carrier server parameters used to obtain a commission for a sale and other data.

In particular carrier data may include wireless service plans and features offered by each wireless carrier. The plans may describe features associated with wireless service plans including but not limited to a number of weekday voice minutes per billing period a number of night and weekend minutes per billing period text messaging capabilities included overage charges whether unused minutes rollover to the next billing period whether calls to designated numbers avoid airtime charges whether calls to other users of the wireless carrier avoid airtime charges starting and ending times for nights and weekends data plan charges additional line charges and or other features. The plans may also specify geographic areas in which the wireless service plan is available. Features may also describe optional features outside of a plan that may be added to a plan .

The wireless device data describes a plurality of wireless devices including their respective feature sets and with which types of wireless networks they are compatible. As a non limiting example of feature sets some wireless devices may have digital cameras and or music players whereas others may not. As another non limiting example some wireless devices may have keyboards whereas others may have touch screens. Regarding wireless network compatibility as non limiting examples one wireless device may be compatible with Global System for Mobile Communications GSM wireless networks whereas another wireless device may be compatible with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA wireless networks while still another wireless device may compatible with both GSM and CDMA networks.

The computing devices and carrier servers may comprise for example server computers or any other systems providing computing capability. Alternatively respective pluralities of computing devices and carrier servers may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a respective plurality of computing devices and carrier servers together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices and carrier servers may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. In one embodiment the computing device and carrier servers each represent a virtualized computer system executing on one or more physical computing systems. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. The components executed on the computing device for example include a risk assessment system and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The risk assessment system is executed to perform a risk assessment on a prospective customer. Such a risk assessment may comprise for example a credit check identity verification reference check or other form of risk assessment. In some embodiments the risk assessment system may be operated by the same entity as the computing device . In other embodiments the risk assessment system may be operated by one or more third party providers of risk assessment information.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. The components executed on the computing device for example include a fulfillment system and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The fulfillment system is executed to direct the operations of one or more fulfillment centers so that orders placed through the electronic commerce system are fulfilled. To this end the fulfillment system may be configured to generate one or more shipping manifests for each order to direct the picking of items from inventory the packing of the items and or other tasks relating to item shipment.

Specifically the fulfillment system may direct the picking of wireless devices from bins or other inventory locations in the fulfillment center in fulfillment of orders. When agents of the fulfillment center pull a wireless device from the inventory the agents may be directed to scan or otherwise input an identifier into the fulfillment system using a scanner keyboard touch screen or other input device. The identifier may comprise a unique identifier such as an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a mobile equipment identifier MEID and or other unique identifiers for wireless devices . The identifier may comprise a number hexadecimal string bar code radiofrequency identifier RFID and or any other type of identifier .

Each of the carrier servers is operated by a wireless carrier so as to provide service for example to a wireless device in accordance with a service plan purchased by the customer. Each carrier operates for example a wireless network to provide wireless service to the wireless device . Each carrier maintains an application programming interface API to facilitate communication with outside entities who sell service plans of the respective carrier. In one embodiment each of the wireless carriers is associated with a distinct API. Once a service plan associated with a given carrier is ordered then the wireless order workflow communicates with the corresponding carrier server through the respective API to request activation of the service for the wireless device . The wireless order workflow may also request porting of a contact designation such as a telephone number from a previous wireless device to the recently purchased wireless device .

The client is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing device and or other servers. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond browser such as for example email applications instant message applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a customer obtains one or more network pages from the electronic commerce system over the network . The network page s may relate to the merchandising of wireless devices and or wireless service plans from a plurality of wireless carriers. The customer may provide security credentials for authentication or identity verification with the customer data . When the customer is an existing customer the network page s may present various options for features to be added or modified in an existing wireless service plan . The network page s may also present for example options for upgrading an existing wireless service plan to another wireless service plan purchasing a new wireless device and other options.

Through the ordering process the customer may provide shipping addresses billing addresses payment instruments and other information. Ultimately a confirmation of order receipt is sent to the customer. Subsequently backend processing of the order by the wireless order workflows may begin.

When the customer is a new customer wireless carriers may require that the customer pass a risk assessment such as for example a credit check identity verification etc. The risk assessment may result in a score such as for example a credit score. The wireless carriers may require that the customer have a score that meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold which may be different from carrier to carrier. If the customer cannot pass the risk assessment the customer may be denied service may be denied a specific service plan or package may need to pay a deposit upfront or may have to take other actions before processing of the order may continue.

The risk assessment of the customer may be performed synchronously or asynchronously by the wireless order workflow . The wireless order workflow may generate a request for the risk assessment which is then sent via the network to the risk assessment system on the computing device . The request may embody certain information used to identify the customer that is taken from customer data . Such information may include for example name social security number birth date place of birth mother s maiden name and or other information to identify the customer. The risk assessment system may be operated for example by an external credit scoring entity or some other risk assessing entity.

The order may be placed on hold pending the return of the risk assessment from the risk assessment system . If the risk assessment is unsatisfactory for the wireless carrier associated with the order the wireless order workflow may generate a notification to inform the customer of the problem. Such a notification may be presented for example through email text message network page etc. In some cases the customer may be able to provide more information pay a deposit switch the order to another wireless carrier or another plan or take some other action to enable continued processing of the order. In other cases the customer may be unable to remedy the issue and the order may remain abandoned or canceled.

The wireless order workflow may also determine whether the customer is eligible for the selected wireless service plan and or wireless device in the order. The offer presented by the electronic commerce system to the customer may have specific conditions that have to be evaluated and met for the customer to obtain or modify service. As a non limiting example if the contractual status of a customer indicates that the customer is currently under contract for a first wireless service plan at one price the customer may not be eligible to move to a second wireless service plan at a lower price. As another non limiting example it may be determined that a customer lives in an area where wireless service is not available to be sold by the selected wireless carrier. As yet another non limiting example the telephone number or other contact designation of the customer may not be eligible to be ported to the selected wireless carrier. Some of these conditions may apply to existing customers while others may apply to new customers.

If a customer is determined not to be eligible for the selected wireless service plan processing of the order may be placed on hold. The wireless order workflow may generate a notification to inform the customer of the problem. Such a notification may be presented for example through email text message network page etc. A customer may then be given an opportunity to make changes to the order such as for example selecting a different wireless carrier selecting a different wireless service plan selecting a different combination of features and so on in order for the customer to attempt to resolve the ineligibility. If the customer is unwilling or unable to make such changes processing of the order may be canceled.

The wireless order workflow may determine whether the features selected in the order are compatible with the selected wireless service plan or existing wireless service plan of the customer. For example the customer may have selected a feature of text messaging to be added to a family plan which currently has one of two lines activated for text messaging. Because the new feature may be a plan level feature rather than a line level feature the new feature may be incompatible with the existing feature .

To remedy this issue the wireless order workflow may be configured to purge one or more of the existing features from the wireless service plan and then replace the existing feature s with the new feature s . Alternatively the wireless order workflow may be configured to cancel the order or put the order on hold for further intervention by the customer to correct any feature incompatibilities. In another embodiment the electronic commerce system may be configured to perform a cross matching of features between an existing plan and a new plan and to notify the customer of the incompatibility when the customer is entering the order.

If the customer is qualified and any incompatibilities in the order have been resolved the wireless order workflow may release the order for fulfillment. In one embodiment when the order includes one or more wireless devices an instruction may be sent to the fulfillment system to fulfill the order at one or more fulfillment centers . For each of the wireless devices an agent at the fulfillment center may be provided with a shipping manifest with instructions to pull one or more wireless devices from inventory for packing and shipment. When the agent has located a wireless device from inventory the agent may then input one or more identifiers such as for example an IMEI or MEID from the packaging of the wireless device or directly from the wireless device . Where the wireless device includes a subscriber identity module SIM card a service subscriber identifier such as for example an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI may be scanned.

Such identifiers may uniquely identify the wireless device to the wireless carrier. A scanner or other input device may be used. Data describing the identifier may then be transmitted to the fulfillment system and subsequently obtained over the network by the wireless order workflow . Where a customer has an existing wireless device the customer data may include one or more identifiers for the existing wireless devices entered by the customer. When the identifier is obtained by the wireless order workflow a request to activate the wireless device and or a wireless service plan from the order may be generated and sent to the carrier server of the corresponding wireless carrier. Where the order is merely for a modification of existing features of a current wireless service plan the request may or may not have identifiers corresponding to wireless devices .

The request to activate the ordered wireless service may be generated by the wireless order workflow in a format that is specific to the API of the wireless carrier. In one embodiment each of the wireless carriers may be associated with a distinct API and may have different sets of features and policies. In one embodiment a wireless carrier may merely be a reseller of services from another wireless carrier. Such a wireless carrier may then use the same API and may use the same carrier server as the other wireless carrier. In some embodiments the wireless order workflow may communicate with the carrier server to charge a commission for the order on behalf of the wireless reseller that operates the electronic commerce system .

Although a request to activate the wireless service may be sent by the wireless order workflow to the carrier server in some embodiments the wireless service will be activated after some manual task is performed by the customer. In one embodiment the wireless order workflow requests that a contact designation be automatically ported to the new wireless device and wireless service plan after a predetermined period of time such as fourteen days or some other time period. Automatic porting or activation if available through the wireless carrier may reduce the possibility that the customer is unknowingly using a wireless device under an old wireless service plan which for example could cause significant charges to be incurred if the customer exceeds the limits of the old wireless service plan while believing that the new wireless service plan has been completely activated.

Although automatic porting may be requested the customer may be able to port the number manually earlier. In some embodiments such manual porting or activation may be necessary. To this end the wireless order workflow may send a notification to the customer describing one or more tasks for the customer to perform to complete the activation of the wireless service plan and or the wireless device . Such a notification may be sent for example after the request for activation is sent to the carrier server .

In addition one or more other notifications may be sent to the customer regarding the status of the wireless service activation. These notifications may comprise for example text messages emails network pages etc. The notifications may indicate for example successful completion of the activation or errors that may necessitate further configuration or input from the customer.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the electronic commerce system according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the electronic commerce system as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the electronic commerce system obtains a wireless order from a client associated with a customer. The wireless order may be for one or more wireless devices and or one or more wireless service plans . The order may also specify a combination of additional features to be included with a selected wireless service plan . In box the electronic commerce system determines whether the customer is a new customer.

If the customer is a new customer of the wireless carrier the electronic commerce system moves to box and performs a risk assessment on the customer such as a credit check or other risk assessment. In box the electronic commerce system determines whether the customer is qualified for the order according to the results of the risk assessment. In one embodiment the risk assessment may result in a score which is then compared to a threshold for obtaining service. The threshold may depend on the wireless carrier associated with the selected wireless service plan . If the customer is not qualified the order may be placed on hold or canceled and the customer may be notified. Thereafter the portion of the electronic commerce system ends. If the customer is qualified the electronic commerce system proceeds to box .

If the customer is determined not to be a new customer in box the electronic commerce system proceeds to box and verifies the eligibility of the customer to proceed with the order. As non limiting examples the customer may need to be resident in a certain service area have an acceptable payment history not be contractually limited from switching to the selected wireless service plan of the order and so on. If the customer is determined to be not eligible to proceed with the order in box the order may be placed on hold or canceled and the customer may be notified. In various embodiments the customer may be given an opportunity to modify the order to meet eligibility requirements. For example eligibility may pertain to the eligibility of the customer to order a wireless device at a discounted price in connection with a service contract associated with the wireless service plan . The customer may be eligible to proceed with the order for example by selecting a different wireless device paying an increased price or taking some other action. Thereafter the portion of the electronic commerce system ends. Otherwise if the customer is determined to be eligible for the order in box the electronic commerce system moves to box .

In box the electronic commerce system determines whether the features indicated by the order are compatible with one another and the selected wireless service plan s and or wireless device s . If the features are not compatible in box the electronic commerce system performs one or more tasks to ensure that the features are compatible for the wireless service plan and or the wireless device . For example incompatible features may be purged from the order and replaced with compatible features . For example incompatible features may be removed and the customer notified. The electronic commerce system proceeds to box . If the features specified in the order are determined to be compatible the electronic commerce system also proceeds to box .

In box the electronic commerce system determines whether a new wireless device has been ordered. In one embodiment an order for a wireless service plan is presumed to include an order for a new wireless device . If a new wireless device has been ordered the electronic commerce system transitions to box and releases the order of the wireless device for fulfillment. The wireless device then may be picked from inventory in a fulfillment center . Next in box the electronic commerce system obtains one or more identifiers of the wireless device s in the order from the fulfillment system . The electronic commerce system proceeds to box . If a new wireless device has not been ordered the electronic commerce system also proceeds to box .

In box the electronic commerce system sends a request to activate a wireless device whether new or existing and a wireless service plan to the carrier server corresponding to the wireless carrier of the wireless service plan . The request may be directed to a distinct API of the wireless carrier. Next in box the electronic commerce system may notify the customer of any manual tasks to complete the activation. As a non limiting example the customer may be requested to call the wireless carrier with the wireless device to finish the activation. Thereafter the portion of the electronic commerce system ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor is an electronic commerce system encompassing a workflow engine and at least one wireless order workflow along with potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java Java Script Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the electronic commerce system the workflow engine the wireless order workflow and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the electronic commerce system . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the electronic commerce system the workflow engine and the wireless order workflow that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

