---

title: Systems and methods to merchandise a product based on a compatibility
abstract: Methods and systems to merchandise a product based on compatibility are disclosed. The system receives a request over a network from a user. Next, the system associates the request with a user profile that is associated with the user, retrieves an application listing from the user profile that describes a first item and associates the first item with a plurality of candidate items based on item cluster information that is generated based on content data information that is received from a content data provider. Next, the system selects a second item from the plurality of candidate items, the second item being a component of the first item. Finally, the system communicates the merchandising information over a network, to merchandize the second item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676649&OS=08676649&RS=08676649
owner: eBay, Inc.
number: 08676649
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100903
---
This disclosure relates to the technical field of data communications and more particularly to systems and methods to merchandise a product based on compatibility.

Merchandising may sometimes influence a user of a network based marketplace to purchase a product. If the products selected for merchandising are not carefully selected the merchandising effort may not be successful.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

As described further below according to various example embodiments of the disclosed subject matter described and claimed herein systems and methods to merchandise a product based on compatibility are described. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

The example embodiments described herein seek to optimize an opportunity to merchandise by selecting products e.g. items to display based on compatibility. Items may be parts or components that have an assembly e.g. parts that fit an application . While many of the example embodiments are discussed in the context of determining compatibility of automotive parts with particular vehicles it will be appreciated that the methods and systems described herein may be applied to a broad range of compatibility use scenarios e.g. parts for computers printers photo cameras washing machines lawn mowers scooters buildings doors tractors solar panels bikes airplanes aircrafts motorcycles boats or any other application that may be assembled with parts . Further it will be appreciated that the methods and systems described herein may be applied to a broad range of technical problems some of which are described as follows.

According to a first aspect of the present disclosure systems and methods to merchandise a product based on compatibility are described. In one embodiment a system may receive a request from a user and associate the request with a user profile. The user profile may include one or more applications that were previously associated with the user. For example an application may include a vehicle a computer a photo camera an appliance or any other device that may be assembled from compatible parts e.g. components . In some embodiments the notion of compatibility may extend beyond assembly to include tools for assembly of the application e.g. wrench specialized screw driver etc. products for maintenance of the application e.g. printer cartridges cleaners lubricants etc. manuals pertaining to the application or some other category that may include parts that are in some way compatible with the application. The application may have been previously associated with the user and stored in the user profile based on activities performed by the user. Further the activity may have explicitly or implicitly identified the application. For example a purchase activity may explicitly identify a strong association of the application with the user because the purchase implies the user has taken possession of the application. Examples of other activities may include a query activity a view activity and a watch activity that are respectively related to a particular application. Next the system may associate the application with items e.g. parts that are compatible with the application based on item cluster information to generate a set of candidate items. For example an item cluster service may receive a product identifier identifying the application and based on the item cluster information return product identifiers for items e.g. parts that are compatible with the application. The item cluster information may be generated based on content data information that is received from a third party server e.g. content data provider . For example the content data provider may communicate catalogue information e.g. catalogue or instructional information e.g. instructional video that may be utilized to identify items e.g. parts that are compatible with the application. Next the system may select one or more items e.g. parts from the candidate items to generate merchandising information that is communicated over a network to the user that entered the request. Accordingly systems and methods to merchandise a product based on compatibility with an application that is associated with a user are described more fully below.

According to a second aspect of the present disclosure systems and methods to merchandise a product based on a likelihood of associating an application with a user are discussed. In one embodiment the system may receive a request from a user and associate the request with a user profile. The user profile may include one or more applications with corresponding probabilities. The application and probabilities may have been previously identified and stored in the user profile based on activities performed by the user. Each activity may be associated with a single item e.g. part that is compatible with multiple applications. Accordingly the applications may be assigned probabilities that measure a likelihood of association of the respective applications with the user. For example a user may purchase tires e.g. standardized product that are known to be compatible with two applications namely an Audi A1 and a Volkswagen Golf Accordingly product identifiers for the Audi A1 and the Volkswagen Golf applications may be stored in the user profile along with respective probabilities of 50 and 50 because the applications are by inference of the purchase equally associated with the user. Returning to the request the system may respond to the request by retrieving a predetermined number of applications from the user profile. The applications may be identified for retrieval based on the probabilities mentioned above. For example the system may retrieve applications with the highest probability of association up to a predetermined maximum number of applications. Next the system may associate the respective applications with sets of items e.g. parts and select one item e.g. parts for each of the retrieved applications to generate merchandising information. Finally the merchandising information may be communicated over a network to the user that entered the request. In some embodiments the probabilities may be updated based on subsequent activities performed by the user. For example the user may purchase another item that is solely compatible with the Audi A1 application and not the Volkswagen Golf application. In this instance the probability for the Audi A1 may be updated from 50 to 100 and the probability for the Volkswagen Golf may be updated from 50 to 0 . Accordingly systems and methods to merchandise a product based on a likelihood of association with a user are described more fully below.

An application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace modules and payment modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace modules may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the network based marketplace . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value in accounts and then to later redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace modules . Value may be accumulated in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points. While the marketplace modules and payment modules are shown in to both form part of the network based marketplace it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the network based marketplace .

Further while the networked system shown in employs a client server architecture embodiments of the present invention are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace modules and payment modules could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client and programmatic client access the various marketplace modules and payment modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace modules and payment modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller module e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the network based marketplace in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based marketplace .

The network based marketplace may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace and payment modules and are shown to include at least one publication module and one or more auction module s which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction modules may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price modules may support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and may allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store modules s may allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation module s may allow users that transact utilizing the network based marketplace to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider for example that where the network based marketplace supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation module s allow a user to establish a reputation within the network based marketplace over time for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization modules may allow users of the network based marketplace to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the network based marketplace . For example a user may utilizing appropriate personalization modules create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further the personalization modules may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties.

The networked system may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the networked system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the networked system may be customized for the United States. Some of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The networked system may accordingly include a number of internationalization modules that customize information and or the presentation of information by the networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization modules may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the networked system .

Navigation of the network based marketplace may be facilitated by one or more navigation modules . For example browse modules may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . Various other navigation modules may be provided to supplement the search and browsing modules.

In order to make listings available via the networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible the marketplace and payment modules and may include one or more imaging modules with which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. The imaging modules may also operate to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging modules may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation modules may allow sellers to conveniently author listings of items e.g. parts applications etc. pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the network based marketplace . For example the listing creation modules may enable sellers to identify their items as products. The listing management modules may allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management modules may provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings.

One or more post listing management modules may also assist sellers with a number of activities that may typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction module s a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end the post listing management modules may provide an interface to one or more reputation module s so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation module s .

Dispute resolution module s may provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution module s may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention modules may implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the network based marketplace .

Messaging modules may be responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the network based marketplace with such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings at the network based marketplace e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or providing promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging modules may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging modules may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired network e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi e.g. IEEE 802.11 technologies including 802.11n 802.11b 802.11g and 802.11a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access e.g. WiMAX IEEE 802.16 networks.

Retrieval modules may support various searching functions that are made available to buyers to enable buyers to find listings. The network based marketplace itself or one or more parties that transact via the network based marketplace may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions module s . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotions points for transactions established and or concluded with a particular seller and then be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The network based marketplace may further include merchandising modules that may enable merchandising items based on a user profile and cluster item information.

The tables also include an items table in which item records are maintained for goods e.g. parts and services that are available to be or have been transacted via the network based marketplace . Item records within the items table may furthermore be linked to one or more user records within the user table so as to associate a seller and one or more actual or potential buyers with an item record.

A transaction table contains a record for each transaction e.g. a purchase or sale transaction pertaining to items for which records exist within the items table .

An order table may be populated with order records with each order record being associated with an order. Each order in turn may be associated with one or more transactions for which records exist within the transaction table .

Bid records within a bids table may relate to a bid received at the network based marketplace in connection with an auction format listing supported by one or more auction modules as shown in . A feedback table may be utilized by one or more reputation modules in one example embodiment to construct and maintain reputation information concerning users. A merchandising table may be used to store information that is utilized to merchandise products. One or more attributes tables record attribute information pertaining to items for which records exist within the items table . Considering only a single example of such an attribute the attributes tables may indicate a currency attribute associated with a particular item with the currency attribute identifying the currency of a price for the relevant item as specified by a seller. A search table may store search information that has been entered by a user e.g. buyer who is looking for a specific type of listing.

The user application information may include multiple application listings e.g. rows that correspond to different applications e.g. products associated with the user. In some embodiments the user application information may be further organized according to domains. For example the user application information may include sections of application listings dedicated to a particular domain e.g. trucks cars printers toys books etc. . Each application listing may include a product identifier a product history and a probability . For example the product identifier may identify a Ford Tacoma Truck as associated with the user because the network based marketplace identified the user as purchasing parts for a Ford Tacoma Truck. Accordingly the product identifier may indicate that the user is associated with the product by detecting an activity that is related to the product. The product history may describe the product and events related to the product as described further below. The probability may indicate likelihood that the corresponding product is associated with the user. For example the probability may be high e.g. 100 signifying a strong association with the user or low signifying a weak association with the user. For example a probability of 100 may be assigned to a product e.g. application for which compatible parts are purchased by the user. Also for example probabilities of 50 may be assigned to two products for which a user purchases a single part that is identified as compatible with both products e.g. applications . The probability may be utilized to provide a basis for ranking the merchandising of items that may be compatible with the user application information .

The commercial content data information may be purchased from a commercial content provider that operates a third party server and utilizes a third party module to communicate the commercial content data information to the network based marketplace . The commercial content data information may include instructional information and catalogue information . The instructional information may for example include a How to Manual that provides instructions for assembling multiple parts to create an application. For example the How to Manual may be embodied as a video DVD booklet You Tube video etc. The catalogue information may include commercial catalogues that are directed to a particular product domain including automobiles computers printers toys BBQs homes or any other catalogue that relates an application e.g. product and compatible parts.

The non commercial content data information may not be purchased but freely obtained locally at the network based marketplace or remotely from a third party server . The non commercial content data information may also include instructional information as previously described catalogue information as previously described and user commentary . The user commentary may for example include blogs feedback product reviews etc.

At operation the third party server may communicate content data information to the network based marketplace . For example the third party server may communicate instructional information in the form of a video. The network based marketplace may receive and store the content data information in a database . Next the network based marketplace may analyze the content data information to generate item cluster information that is stored in the database . For example the network based marketplace may generate application information e.g. automobile applications and part information automobile parts shown in .

At operation the client machine may communicate a request to the network based marketplace . At operation at the network based marketplace the receiving module may receive the request and at operation the processing module shown in may associate the request with a user profile . For example the processing module may identify the request as originating with a user that has logged onto the network based marketplace and is communicating from a particular client machine that may be identified based on the contents of the request. At operation the processing module may retrieve a first item listing in that describes an item the form of an application from the user profile . For example the processing module may retrieve a product identifier that identifies the application. At operation the processing module may associate the application with candidate items based on item cluster information . For example the processing module may utilize a cluster service that receives a product identifier for the application accesses the item cluster information based on the product identifier and returns candidate items that are compatible with the application. For example the cluster service may utilize the product identifier of the application to access the item cluster information and retrieve a plurality of candidate items in the form of part information e.g. product identifiers . At operation the processing module may select a second item in the form of an item from the plurality of candidate items based on buying trend information . For example the processing module may access the product rank in the buying trend product information for each of the candidate items and select the candidate item with the lowest product rank . Accordingly the processing module may select the item with the strongest buying trend product information from the candidate items. At operation the communication module may generate a user interface including merchandising information featuring the selected item e.g. tires and communicate the user interface to the client machine .

At operation the client machine receives the user interface and displays the user interface to the user. For example shows a user interface that includes merchandising information featuring the selected items that are compatible with the same application.

In another embodiment the processing module may utilize replacement information rather than buying trend information to select the item from the candidate items at operation . To this end the processing module may select an item from the candidate items at operation based on product replacement information . For example the processing module may identify the application as a Toyota Tacoma Truck and one of the candidate items as a tire associated with product replacement information that indicates the tires need to be replaced. In one embodiment the product replacement information may include a period of time e.g. 4 years that may be compared with the product history that is associated with the truck e.g. application in the user profile . For example the product history may indicate the truck was manufactured five years ago and does not include any purchases of tires. In another embodiment the product replacement information may include a quantity of miles e.g. 40 000 miles that may be compared with the product history that is associated with the truck e.g. application . For example the product history for the truck may indicate that the odometer on the truck reads 50 000 miles and does not include any purchases of tires.

In another embodiment the communication module may generate a message rather than a user interface. For example the communication module may generate a message including merchandising information that features the selected item e.g. tires and communicate the message to an application programming interface at another machine e.g. server .

In another embodiment the network based marketplace may receive the content data information from an internal data source rather than an external data source. For example the network based marketplace may receive the content data information from the feedback table that is local to the network based marketplace . Merely for example the feedback table may include user comments that describe tires for a Toyota Tacoma Truck. Also for example the network based marketplace may receive the content data information from the transaction table that includes records of transactions enabling the identification of purchasing patterns.

In another embodiment the processing module may select multiple items from the candidate items and the communication module may generate merchandising information featuring the multiple items for inclusion in a user interface or a message.

At operation the receiving module at the network based marketplace may receive the query and at operation the processing module may associate the request with a user profile for a user as previously described. At operation the processing module may analyze the query to identify an application and part that is compatible with the application. For example the query may include Goodyear 225 50R17 Tires Toyota Tacoma Truck and the processing module may identify Toyota Tacoma as a truck application and Goodyear 225 50R17 Tires as a part that is compatible with the Toyota Tacoma Truck. Next the processing module may identify product identifiers for the Toyota Tacoma Truck and the Goodyear 225 50R17 Tires. At operation the processing module may store application information in association with part information in the item cluster information . For example the processing module may store the application information in the form of a product identifier e.g. Toyota Tacoma Truck in association with the part information e.g. Goodyear 225 50R17 Tires in the form of a product identifier in the item cluster information . At operation the processing module may store user application information in the user profile for the user. For example the processing module may store user application information by storing an application listing in the form of a product identifier e.g. Toyota Tacoma Truck in the user profile for the user and the process ends.

At operation the receiving module at the network based marketplace may receive the request and at operation the processing module may associate the request with a user profile for a user as previously described. At operation the processing module may identify the item as an application. For example the processing module may utilize catalogue information to identify the item as an application. At operation the processing module may store the item in the user profile as user application information . For example the processing module may store an application listing including the product identifier for the item in the user profile .

At operation the receiving module at the network based marketplace may receive the request and at operation the processing module may associate the request with a user profile for a user as previously described. At operation the processing module may identify the item as a part that fits one or more applications. For example the processing module may utilize catalogue information to identify the item as a part. At operation the processing module associates the item e.g. part with one or more applications that are compatible with the item. For example the processing module may utilize the item cluster information to associate the part with one or more applications. At operation the processing module may store the one or more applications in the user profile. For example the processing module may store an application listing including the product identifier for an application in the user profile . At operation the processing module may store probability and part history information in association with the one or more applications. For example consider the case where a part e.g. tire is purchased that has an equal chance of fitting an Audi A1 or a Volkswagen Golf. The processing module may store the probability of 50 and the product identifier for the Audi A1 and the probability of 50 and the product identifier for the Volkswagen Golf. Further the processing module may store a part listing including the product identifier for the item e.g. part tire in the part history information and register the purchase in the part activity information . For example the processing module may increment a count for purchases in the part activity information .

In another example the above method may be utilized to update one or more probabilities in the user profile . Consider for example a user profile with a car domain that stores the following 

At operation at the network based marketplace the receiving module receives the query and at operation the processing module analyzes the query to identify an item e.g. part and a product number that corresponds to the part. For example the processing module may identify Goodyear Tire as a part in the query Goodyear Tires fit Toyota Tacoma. At operation the processing module may generate buying trend product information based on the query. For example the processing module may increment the query count for the buying trend information that corresponds to the product identifier for Goodyear Tires. In addition the processing module may update the product rank for each of the respective buying trend product information entries in the buying trend information responsive to receiving the query and at operation store the buying trend product information entries as buying trend information in the database.

At operation the receiving module at the network based marketplace may receive the request and at operation the processing module may analyze the request to associate the item with a product identifier and determine the type of request. At operation the processing module may generate buying trend product information based on the request and at operation store the buying trend product information . For example the processing module may increment a count associated with the product identifier for the item including a view count responsive to receiving a request to view the item a watch count responsive to receiving a request to watch the item or a purchase count responsive to receiving a request to buy or enter a bid that wins an auction. Finally the processing module may update the product rank for each of the respective buying trend product information entries responsive to receiving the request and store the buying trend product information entries as buying trend information in the database.

At operation the client machine may communicate a request to the network based marketplace . At operation at the network based marketplace the receiving module may receive the request and at operation the processing module may associate the request with a user profile . For example the processing module may identify the request as originating with a user that has logged onto the network based marketplace and is communicating from a particular client machine . That is the identity of the user may be identified based on the request. At operation the processing module may retrieve applications from the user profile . For example the processing module may retrieve application listings including product identifiers that identify the applications. In one embodiment the processing module may retrieve a predetermined number of applications from the user profile based on a predetermined number of applications and a probability associated with each of the applications. For example the processing module may retrieve the three applications with the highest probabilities e.g. the applications most likely to be associated with the user . In one embodiment the processing module may retrieve applications that exceed a predetermined probability up to the predetermined number of applications. At operation the processing module associates each application with a set of candidate items based on item cluster information . For example the processing module may utilize a cluster service that receives a product identifier for the application accesses the item cluster information based on the product identifier and returns a set of candidate items that are compatible with the application. For example the cluster service may utilize the product identifier of the application to access the cluster information and retrieve product identifiers for a plurality of candidate items that are compatible with the application. At operation the processing module may select a merchandise item for each set of candidate items. The processing module may select each merchandise item based on buying trend information . For example the processing module may access the product rank in the buying trend product information for each of the candidate items and select the candidate item with the lowest product rank . Accordingly the processing module may select a merchandise item with the strongest buying trend product information from each set of candidate items. At operation the communication module may generate a user interface including the merchandising information featuring the selected merchandise items and communicate the user interface to the client machine .

At operation the client machine may receive the user interface and display the user interface to the user. For example shows a user interface that includes merchandising information featuring the selected merchandise items that are respectively compatible with different applications.

In another embodiment the processing module may utilize replacement information rather than buying trend information to select the item from the candidate items. To this end the processing module may select a merchandise item from the candidate items as in operation based on product replacement information as previously described with respect to the selection of the second item in .

In another embodiment the communication module may generate a message rather than a user interface. For example the communication module may generate a message including merchandising information and communicate the message to an application programming interface at another machine e.g. server .

In another embodiment the network based marketplace may receive the content data information from an internal data source rather than an external data source. For example the network based marketplace may receive the content data information from the feedback table that is local to the network based marketplace . Merely for example the feedback table may include user comments that describe tires for a Toyota Tacoma Truck.

The above described user interfaces are illustrated to include user interface elements and columns for display. However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the user interfaces may also be embodied as a machine interface e.g. Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML including machine interface elements an audio interface including audio interface elements and a kinetic interface including kinetic interface elements.

In some embodiments the methods described herein may be implemented in a distributed or non distributed software application designed under a three tier architecture paradigm whereby the various components of computer code that implement these methods may be categorized as belonging to one or more of these three tiers. Some embodiments may include a first tier as an interface e.g. an interface tier that is relatively free of application processing. Further a second tier may be a logic tier that performs application processing in the form of logical mathematical manipulations of data inputted through the interface level and communicates the results of these logical mathematical manipulations to the interface tier and or to a backend or storage tier. These logical mathematical manipulations may relate to certain business rules or processes that govern the software application as a whole. A third storage tier may be a persistent storage medium or non persistent storage medium. In some cases one or more of these tiers may be collapsed into another resulting in a two tier architecture or even a one tier architecture. For example the interface and logic tiers may be consolidated or the logic and storage tiers may be consolidated as in the case of a software application with an embedded database. This three tier architecture may be implemented using one technology or as will be discussed below a variety of technologies. This three tier architecture and the technologies through which it is implemented may be executed on two or more computer systems organized in a server client peer to peer or some other suitable configuration. Further these three tiers may be distributed between multiple computer systems as various software components.

Some example embodiments may include the above illustrated tiers and processes or operations that make them up as being written as one or more software components. Common to many of these components is the ability to generate use and manipulate data. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server or peer computer systems. These various components may be implemented by a computer system on an as needed basis. These components may be written in an object oriented computer language such that a component oriented or object oriented programming technique can be implemented using a Visual Component Library VCL Component Library for Cross Platform CLX Java Beans JB Java Enterprise Beans EJB Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM or other suitable technique. These components may be linked to other components via various APIs and then compiled into one complete server client and or peer software application. Further these APIs may be able to communicate through various distributed programming protocols as distributed computing components.

Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of the above illustrated components across a distributed programming environment as distributed computing components. For example an interface component e.g. an interface tier may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing a logic component e.g. a logic tier . These first and second computer systems may be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other suitable configuration. These various components may be written using the above illustrated object oriented programming techniques and can be written in the same programming language or a different programming language. Various protocols may be implemented to enable these various components to communicate regardless of the programming language used to write these components. For example a component written in C may be able to communicate with another component written in the Java programming language by using a distributed computing protocol such as a Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or some other suitable protocol. Some embodiments may include the use of one or more of these protocols with the various protocols outlined in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model or Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocol stack model for defining the protocols used by a network to transmit data.

Some embodiments may utilize the OSI model or TCP IP protocol stack model for defining the protocols used by a network to transmit data. In applying these models a system of data transmission between a server and client or between peer computer systems is illustrated as a series of roughly five layers comprising an application layer a transport layer a network layer a data link layer and a physical layer. In the case of software having a three tier architecture the various tiers e.g. the interface logic and storage tiers reside on the application layer of the TCP IP protocol stack. In an example implementation using the TCP IP protocol stack model data from an application residing at the application layer is loaded into the data load field of a TCP segment residing at the transport layer. This TCP segment also contains port information for a recipient software application residing remotely. This TCP segment is loaded into the data load field of an IP datagram residing at the network layer. Next this IP datagram is loaded into a frame residing at the data link layer. This frame is then encoded at the physical layer and the data transmitted over a network such as an internet Local Area Network LAN WAN or some other suitable network. In some cases internet refers to a network of networks. These networks may use a variety of protocols for the exchange of data including the aforementioned TCP IP and additionally asynchronous transfer mode ATM system network architecture SNA SDI or some other suitable protocol. These networks may be organized within a variety of topologies e.g. a star topology or structures.

The example computer system includes one or more processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Software applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media. As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analogue communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The figures provided herein are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Thus systems and methods to merchandise a product based on compatibility are disclosed. While the present disclosure has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to the embodiments described but may be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

