---

title: Network based media enhancement function based on an identifier
abstract: A network based processing element for processing audio information improves the understanding of speech or music for intended listeners based on an identifier. The processing involves performing a media enhancement function, where a parameter affecting the utilization or performance aspects of the media enhancement function are dependent upon the identifier. A “media enhancement server” (MES) is included, whereby the audio of a telephone call, video call, multimedia program or other stream to be heard by a specific listener is processed using a personalized audio enhancement parameter to enhance the audio signal such that the listener will enjoy a benefit, such as better comprehension of the information, reduced listening effort, and more listening comfort during the call. The personalized parameters are stored and retrieved based upon the identifier, and used within the MES. The audio portion of the call or stream could be speech, music, or a combination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020621&OS=09020621&RS=09020621
owner: Cochlear Limited
number: 09020621
owner_city: Macquarie University
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20101117
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 262 478 filed Nov. 18 2009 entitled Communications Telephony and Entertainment Systems Utilizing Speech based Optimization U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 324 833 filed Apr. 16 2010 entitled Network Based Media Enhancement Function Based on an Identifier and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 370 580 filed Aug. 4 2010 entitled Network Based Media Enhancement Parameters Generation and Control Function the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The invention relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to the use of audio processing to improve the intelligibility of speech heard by a listener.

IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem as described in 3GPP TS 23.228 IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Stage 2 available at http www.3gpp.org the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

SIP Session Initiation Protocol as described in Internet Engineering Task Force Request for Comments 3261 IETF RFC 3261 SIP Session Initiation Protocol available at http www.ietf.org the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety SSP Service Switching Point AIN STP Signal Transfer Point AIN 

Currently the voice and audio services provided within the telephony networks are designed for a listener with relatively normal hearing. However the hearing device industry has shown that the customization of hearing devices provides for significant benefit in the understanding of speech and hearing in general. Audio processing techniques used to improve the hearing acuity of a listener are well known in the fields of hearing aids and other devices used for the hearing impaired. It is further well known in the hearing impaired community of the existence of specialty telephones designed with features to increase the amplitude of a signal and the clarity of the signal using methods including volume control gain tone control equalization and other audio processing techniques. These specialty telephones and other related devices are expensive manually controlled by the user and have limited features when compared with the mobile and fixed telephones available for normal hearing individuals. Due to the cost these devices have limited capabilities and are not manageable or upgradeable. Because of these limitations the use of such devices is limited to individuals with significant hearing impairment.

In the field of telecommunications networks network based devices which provide for the enhancement of the quality of audio signals are well known for the processing of signals generically. Such devices are used to perform acoustic echo cancellation signal amplification filtering and other such functions generally required to meet the audio quality requirement of certain industry standards and the expectations of the relatively normal hearing individual in relatively quiet environments.

Call routing capabilities for inbound and outbound calls provided by various voice telecommunications networks are well known in the telecommunications industry. The Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN features and services are built around the Intelligent Network IN and the Advanced Intelligent Network AIN service creation and implementation architectures. In the IN and AIN enabled network the telephone switch connects to a Service Control Point SCP which provides information and logic regarding how to handle incoming and outgoing calls to the telephone switch. AIN services such as Selective Call Acceptance allow for forwarding all calls received by a specific customer to another telephone number except calls from a specific telephone number or groups of numbers are not forwarded and are routed to the customer s telephone or telephone line. There are many different outbound call routing features possible within the AIN architecture to control the routing of outbound calls including selective call routing automatic call routing hotline etc.

Newer network implementations based on the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS architectures build on the service creation and control capabilities developed under the AIN and provide more flexibility and control of call routing and call control capabilities.

IMS networks include the ability to implement a specific service using an Application Server AS where the service control logic exists. An IMS AS may include features which control call routing and other call features associated with a voice services subscriber. A well known element in the IMS architecture is the Media Resource Function MRF which is a network element designed to provide processing of the digitized media carried in a call including audio based media. One provider of MRF capability is Radisys with their Convedia media server product line. It is known in the art that such platforms provide for Voice Quality Enhancement VQE capability including compensation for acoustic echo noise compensation and packet loss based on specific quality metrics. The PSTN AIN architecture did not include a similar function as the IMS MRF but there are other well known methods for processing audio media in the PSTN including the use of an intermediate gateway or call relay system.

Network based telecommunications elements as described herein and as known in the art may act as gateways or provide other network functions which may include audio processing functions. Currently network based elements that provide audio processing provide the same audio processing methods to all calls that access the audio processing network element.

It is an object of this invention to provide for customized network based audio processing to enhance an audio signal to improve the hearing acuity comfort or listening effort of a specific listener or group of listeners. The network may be a telecommunications network a PSTN network an internet protocol IP network a IMS network a PacketCable Network a wireless network or other network capable of delivering audio or multimedia streams containing audio to a specific intended device listener or group of listeners which may be identified or associated with a unique identifier. Such identifiers may include but are not limited to a telephone number E.164 compliant number a mobile identification number MIN international mobile subscriber identity IMSI or associated TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity a MAC address IP address an SIP User Agent Uniform Resource Identifier URI a URL user name or other input identifier a password stored unique cookie within a browser and the like. Providing personalized audio enhancements would be beneficial for the general public but especially beneficial for listeners that have a hearing impairment and or listeners that are using a telephone in a noisy environment such that their ability to hear the telephone audio is impaired during the call. It should be noted that the term call generally applies to a telephony network or VoIP network where voice or a voice and video call is transacted. However it should be understood that while voice or video calls are discussed the disclosed embodiments are generally applicable to other forms of media presenting audio such as a unidirectional video broadcast a pod cast internet radio IP television and other such media where an identifier may be used associated with a specific location device listener or group of listeners.

A significant problem overcome by embodiments of the current invention is the fact that an individual s hearing impairment will be different from one person to another. Likewise the local noise e.g. room noise environment during a call will be different on a per call basis. The parameters of the processing of the audio applied during a call needs to be personalized for the specific listener to match the person s actual needs based on the parameters of the person s specific hearing loss and or the parameters of the noise environment at the listener s location. In situations where a speaker phone is being used for a group of individuals the personalization of the parameters may be modified to enable some enhancement feature and disable others. In such a situation the local noise would be common to a group of listeners if a speaker phone is being used during a call or if a video stream is being viewed by more than one individual.

It is an additional object of this invention is to provide for a network based processing element for processing audio information to improve the understanding of speech or music for one or more intended listeners based on an identifier where the processing involves performing one or more media enhancement functions where one or more parameters affecting the utilization or performance aspects of the one or more media enhancement functions are dependent upon the identifier.

In an embodiment of the current invention a media enhancement server MES is included whereby the audio of a telephone call video call multimedia program or other stream to be heard by a specific listener is processed using personalized audio enhancement parameters to enhance the audio signal such that the listener will enjoy any number of benefits including better comprehension of the information reduced listening effort and more listening comfort during the call. The audio of the call could be speech music or a combination of speech and music. Further the audio may be presented as part of an audio visual media stream such as a video call music video a newscast movie or television program. There is a need for personalized network based audio enhancement for telephone calls or other media streams containing audio. In an embodiment of the invention the personalization of a call or other media stream s audio by either enabling or disabling the MES specific techniques functions or routing call related audio through the MES based on a identifier which identifies the specific listener the device or the access line for the call. The parameters of the audio enhancement are also selected or retrieved from a storage source based on the identifier.

Specific derivation approaches and additional details of the specific parameters used for audio enhancement for any specific listener are obtained through specialized hearing tests which are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 206 416 entitled Speech based optimization of digital hearing devices the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Any provided examples of parameters and enhancement techniques herein should not be construed as a limitation to the current embodiments but simply as one or more illustrative approaches. For the purpose of example of a parameter for automatic gain control the user may be provided a choice of the most comfortable listening level among a number of different audio samples presented at differing loudness levels. The user would provide feedback as to the desired level. The setting would be stored within a network element to be applied within the MES as a specific media enhancement function MEF . Other MEFs which may be personalized may include equalization desired audio output levels noise cancellation or adaptation techniques automatic gain control filtering and the like.

In another aspect the invention relates to a system for improving perceived audio quality in a communications network having a provisioning server for routing audio from and to a user the system including a signal processor a communication device connected to said communication network by a user an identifier received by said signal processor a transmitter for transmitting audio signals to said communication device a receiver for receiving responses to said audio signal from said communication device a comparator in said signal processor for determining the error between the audio signal transmitted from said signal processor to said communication device and the response audio signal and a logic control generator for identifying at least one parameter to be applied to subsequent audio signals subsequently transferred to said communication device. In an embodiment the identifier includes at least one of a Mobile Identity number MIN an IMSI a TMSI a phone number a SIP URL a MAC address a user name a user selection an account number an IP address a device address a device serial number a caller identification an identity indication a virtual connection VC a connection identifier a CID a CNID and a line identification. In another embodiment the logic control generator is adapted to select a parameter for altering a voice signal said parameter including at least one of an automatic gain control an audio gain control an equalization and an energy redistribution. In yet another embodiment said transmitter said receiver said comparator and said logic control generator are physically located in the provisioning server. In still another embodiment said parameter is transferred from said provisioning server to a media enhancement server and is applied to a subsequent audio signal by said media enhancement server.

In another embodiment of the above aspect said media enhancement server is located discrete from said provisioning server. In an embodiment said logic control generator is adapted to generate at least one parameter in a first optimization step and wherein the system further includes a media enhancement server adapted to apply said parameter to voice signals in a temporally different step. In another embodiment wherein the provisioning server is adapted to receive a first telephone call and the media enhancement server is adapted to receive at least one subsequent telephone call and forward automatically the at least one subsequent telephone call to a third party. In yet another embodiment the provisioning server is adapted to receive a first telephone call from the user and the media enhancement server is adapted to receive at least one subsequent telephone call from a third party and forward automatically the at least one subsequent telephone call to the user. In still another embodiment the provisioning server is adapted to initiate a first telephone call to the user and the media enhancement server is adapted to receive at least one subsequent telephone call from the user and forward automatically the at least one subsequent telephone call to a third party. In another embodiment said media enhancement server is adapted to store the at least one parameter. In another embodiment said receiver is adapted to receive keyed information from an operator wherein the operated records responses to said audio signals.

In another aspect the invention relates to a method for improving the quality of media content the method including identifying a media device connected to said media communication network transmitting a media signal to a user of said media device receiving a response signal from said user comparing said transmitted media signal and said response signal to determine an error between said transmitted media signal and said response signal determining at least one parameter and modifying a subsequent media signal provided to said media device using said parameter. In an embodiment said transmitted media signal and said response signal each are audio signals. In another embodiment the method includes selectively applying said parameter to a second subsequent media signal. In yet another embodiment the method includes applying the parameter to a second media device based on a selection by the user. In still another embodiment the method includes applying by a media enhancement server said parameters to a second subsequent media signal in said communication network. In another embodiment the method includes applying by said media device said parameters to a second subsequent media signal in said communication network.

In another aspect the invention relates to An article of manufacture having computer readable program portions embedded thereon for improving the quality of media content the program portions including instructions for identifying a media device connected to said media communication network instructions for transmitting a media signal to a user of said media device instructions for receiving a response signal from said user instructions for comparing said transmitted media signal and said response signal to determine an error between said transmitted media signal and said response signal instructions for determining at least one parameter and instructions for modifying a subsequent media signal provided to said media device using said parameter.

Signaling control protocols and communications are used to control the network operations and features. Transmission protocols and communications are used to transport media such as audio or video from one end point to another end point or between network elements. The media may flow through multiple devices in the network during transmission from one end point to another end point for example in when Party A calls Party B .

The different communication links shown in may carry media e.g. audio video or control information e.g. call set up and call control data . Connections may also carry both media and control information.

The invention includes a MES network element which is depicted in . The MES element is responsible for performing processing of audio streams which will be routed through the MES to enhance the audio signal for the purposes of improving the hearing acuity or intelligibility for the person that will eventually hear the enhanced audio signal carried in the audio stream of the network connection.

The MEP depicted in contains parameters for implementing an audio enhancement processing function or a set of functions that are personalized. The parameters are personalized due to the fact that the parameters are developed during a process of hearing acuity evaluation. During hearing acuity evaluation of a person parameters are developed to be used for programming or controlling an audio processor in the MES which enhances the audio signal heard by the same person for whom the hearing acuity evaluation was performed. The audio enhancement is therefore personalized for the specific person for which the audio parameters are used during a call. Testing hearing acuity and the development of audio processing parameters to be used by a device to improve a person s hearing acuity are well known to those skilled in the art of hearing aids and related personal use devices used to improve the hearing acuity of a person.

It would generally be expected that the audio enhancement of Party A s received audio signal would occur for both outgoing and incoming calls. It is possible that only outgoing or only incoming calls could have the audio processing applied to the audio signals sent to Party A but certain embodiments of the invention contemplate a system for which the personalized audio enhancement feature works for both outgoing and incoming calls.

If Party A has a media enhancement service enabled or configured or has subscribed to a media enhancement service then the Network Control routes incoming and outgoing calls for Party A through the MES . Alternatively a network may be configured such that all calls are routed through a network element which provides media enhancement functions and then the personalized audio processing is activated or enabled based on the identification of an identifier associated with the audio stream call and without call routing being required.

A brief description of one embodiment for the generation of audio processing parameters for hearing optimization is described here for clarity.

A hearing evaluation service provided on a Provisioning Server PS is accessed. Access to the actual hearing evaluation service can be over a telephone call in person with an audiologist over the Internet or other possible methods but in each case the PS will be used to configure the network such that the media enhancement service is enabled or configured for the entity associated with the hearing test. During interaction with the hearing evaluation service and the PS the following actions occur. The order of these actions do not necessarily need to be in the order listed.

1. An identifier to identify for what person access line or device will the personalized audio parameters be associated with is obtained. This identifier can be associated with a person e.g. voice recognition user number name Personal Identification Number PIN associated with one or more telephone devices e.g. a MAC Media Access Control address or an IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identifier or associated with one or more telecommunications access lines or subscriptions e.g. telephone number Caller ID IP address URI Universal Resources Identifier for which the audio processing feature will be activated. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other identifiers or combinations of data used to form identifiers may be used in the present invention. 2. A person accessing the hearing evaluation service may be instructed to listen to specific sounds and provide responses. 3. Alternatively or in addition to the sounds based hearing test the person may answer specific questions e.g. age occupation gender questions about hearing abilities information about previous hearing tests . Alternatively or in addition additional information about the user could be acquired from other sources such as through a carrier subscription agreement or medical records if uploaded by the user or a third party. 4. Personalized audio parameters based on the hearing test results and or the specific personal information provided are generated and passed to the PS . 5. The personalized audio parameters are stored for example in a database such as the MEP under control of the PS . 6. The personalized audio parameters may be transmitted to an audio processor such as the MES by the PS as part of the hearing evaluation service process or the MES may receive the personalized audio parameters from the PS or the MEP at another time.

One or multiple audio processing functions may be configured for a specific person wherein the audio signal the person hears is first processed through an MEF which implements the audio processing functions.

In a non limiting example techniques to determine some forms of audio processing parameters are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 206 416 entitled Speech based optimization of digital hearing devices and in co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 164 452 filed May 18 2009 entitled System and Methods for Determining the Nature of Hearing Weakness the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

In one embodiment of the invention a person may access a PS as described above. The PS may present one or multiple hearing related tests to evaluate a person s assessment of speech quality and or an evaluation of the person s ability to understand speech. During the hearing test process the PS may present test signals that represent options for parameters for each of the available audio processing functions. The PS determines through the testing methods which parameters for each available audio processing function provide the preferred performance for the individual being tested. These parameters are then stored to be used in a MEF during live call audio processing.

In one embodiment of the invention the hearing related tests are performed by obtaining information or hearing test feedback from the person for which the audio processing parameters are generated so the parameters will be personalized for that person s specific hearing needs. Additionally the hearing test may be performed using the telephone device e.g. a handset that the person will use during actual telephone calls or network connections. The audio processing parameters are therefore personalized for the person s hearing capabilities and any audio effects caused by the telephone device such as frequency response loudness control or any other aspect of the telephone device s audio acoustics signaling response.

In one example if an equalizer function is to be generated the parameters of the equalizer are adjusted to optimize the understanding of speech during a hearing test. Testing to determine equalizer parameters may be performed using well known tone threshold tests or using more other techniques which use speech or speech like signals to determine when speech is understood or misunderstood to identify which frequencies need more emphasis. When the person s understanding of speech is optimized or improved the personalized equalizer settings are saved to be accessed later by the MES .

An example of the parameters for an equalizer MEF are shown in the table below. In this example the gain applied to each frequency band relative to the 1 KHz frequency band is defined which are the settings found to be the preferred settings during a person s hearing test. These parameters are therefore personalized for the person who performed the hearing test and for whom the parameters were generated.

In another example during a hearing test the user may be asked to select the most preferred signal amplitude selecting from multiple passages of speech presented to the person at different amplitude levels. In this way the PS hearing test determines the preferred signal amplitude for the person and this information can be used to configure a personalized AGC function used by the MES so the amplitude of signals heard by the person are adjusted dynamically during a call or network connection to the amplitude preferred by the person tested. For the AGC example if a person was tested to find the preferred signal level for the acceptable received audio signal and this level was found to be 16 dB below the digital full scale digital maximum then the parameter to an AGC could be 16 dB indicating 16 dB below digital full scale is the target digital audio level.

Other examples of personalized audio processing parameters which may be generated based on a hearing test or other personalized evaluation method include but are not limited to energy redistribution noise cancellation gain settings based on noise in the environment of the person using the media enhancement function or any other audio processing function that can be enabled or disabled adjusted with a setting or configured with multiple settings or programming.

After personalized audio processing parameters are generated the entity for which the parameters were generated may elect to configure the telecommunications network to activate a media enhancement service which routes calls through or enables the MES . The PS may be used to configure the telecommunications network. The term provisioning is well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications to describe the actions of configuring network elements to provide specific services and features. One of the ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the MES may be in the same server with the PS or may be located in another place discrete therefrom.

The PS may be implemented to provide access by multiple methods including but not limited to a live operator in band signaling control e.g. DTMF similar to an IVR Interactive Voice Response system web browser access over the Internet. When the user accesses the PS an identifier is obtained which is associated with personalized audio processing parameters generated during a hearing evaluation test and possibly stored in the MEP or elsewhere. The PS provides the means to enter parameters which control how the media enhancement service will be implemented by the telecommunications network. The parameters may include but are not limited to 

2. Specific device identifiers that the telecommunications network can identify to enable or disable the MES .

3. Specific access line logical connection or service subscription identifiers e.g. telephone number IP address URI and the like that the telecommunications network can identify to enable or disable the MES .

After the provisioning parameters have been selected the PS communicates with the required network elements MES Network Control to configure the network to provide the services selected by the user.

In other embodiments of the invention network provisioning is handled by other methods for configuring the telecommunications network to use the personalized audio processing parameters in a MES . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the telecommunication network may implement the audio processing parameters in a variety of locales within the call flow of the network and that the parameters associated with the user may be stored in different easily accessible locales for use in such audio processing.

Party A calls the provisioning server PS Step which requests an identifier of Party A Step . Party A sends an identifier to the PS for enabling the MES Step . The PS sends at least one audible signal or at least survey question to Party A to evaluate hearing acuity Step to which Party A responds to the PS Step . The hearing evaluation and or question and answer session between the PS and Party A may have multiple iterations Step . The hearing evaluation and or question and answer session concludes with a final audible signal or survey question sent from the PS to Party A Step to which Party A responds Step . Results from the hearing evaluation and or the question and answer session and the option to continue may be optionally sent from the PS to Party A Step to which Party A may respond Step . After the hearing evaluation and or the question and answer session is completed either in Step or Step the PS determines audio processing parameters for Party A optimized hearing Step . The PS transmits the audio processing parameters for Party A to the MEP to be stored in the MEP database Step . The PS signals network control to configure and enable the MES for Party A Step .

In one embodiment of the invention MEFs are defined and specified such that the parameters associated with each MEF can be received by an audio processor MEF and the desired audio processing effect is implemented. The concepts and methods for passing parameters to implement a function and the use of Application Programming Interfaces APIs is well known to those skilled in the art of computer programming.

In an embodiment of the invention using a defined parameter interface the parameters generated for each MEF include the information required to implement the intended audio processing.

In the previously described example for generating parameters for an AGC MEF the AGC function could be implemented using the 16 dB parameter and the exact details of the AGC implementation left to the actual device on which it is implemented. The use of audio parameters allows for the actual implementation of the MEFs to be abstracted by defining the parameters of the MEFs and not the exact implementation. Abstracting implementation through the use of parameters is well known to those skilled in the art of computer programming. In the previously described example for generating parameters for an equalizer MEF the equalizer function could be implemented using the parameters such as those described in the table given in the example. These parameters may be passed to or retrieved by an audio processor implementing an MEF and then the MEF can implement the equalizer function using the received parameters.

The MEF can receive parameters for one or multiple audio processing functions which will be used to implement one or multiple audio processing functions which are applied to the audio to be heard for whom the personalized audio processing parameters were generated. Devices or elements within which MEFs may be implemented include but are not limited to a telephone endpoint handset headset speakerphone etc. gateway switch Media Resource Function Processor MRFP or any other device or element which can process the media stream of a call or network connection.

A Media Enhancement Server MES or a Media Enhancement Function MEF provides the capabilities to implement audio processing for which the specifications of the audio processing are determined by personalized parameters determined for the intended listener. The audio processing is performed on the media stream of a call or network connection for which the intended listener will hear the processed audio signal that was processed using parameters determined for that intended listener. In one embodiment of the invention a media enhancement service which offers the audio processing features may provide a means to control the settings or options for one or multiple parameters which are used for controlling the audio processing. For example a means to enable or disable one multiple or all audio processing functions may be provided. In another example a means to control a parameter setting such as an AGC gain target or a noise detection threshold level may be provided. The methods which may be provided to a user to control MEF audio processing parameter settings include but are not limited to DTMF signaling during a call or network connection speech commands during a call or network connection any in band or out of band signaling between the user and the MES MEF interfaces to an Interactive Voice Response IVR system web interfaces or any other method by which a user can change or control the parameters associated with an MEF.

In the following call connection descriptions both the sending and receiving audio path for the person using the media enhancement service are routed through the MES . In another embodiment of the invention only the received audio for the entity using the media enhancement service is routed through the MES and the sending audio is routed through a different network path.

The specific call control methods specified in the following call descriptions describe only one embodiment of the invention. It is well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications that there exists many methods used by different telecommunications networks to control call routing call set up and call completion. The invention may make use of well known telecommunications networks features including call routing and call forwarding to route network connections related audio to the MES during call set up or all calls may be routed through the MES without call routing required.

In the following call connection descriptions the personalized media enhancement service has been activated by Party A by the methods provided for service activation by the service provider. Service activation in this case means that when the entity associated with Party A person telephone device access line is identified by the network the network has been configured and provisioned to route calls as required through the MES or enable the MES to implement the personalized media enhancement service for Party A s calls.

Following is a description of an example in one type of network of the signaling and connections that are made to implement the media enhancement service for the audio stream of network connections for both outgoing and incoming calls in the generalized network depicted in .

Because the call associated with Party A has the media enhancement service configured and enabled the Network Control implements a connection request a call request to the MES with the parameters in the connection request including the identifier used to identify Party A for the media enhancement service Step . The connection request will also include Party B s network address e.g. Party B telephone number and an indication that the connection request is to be connected through the MES and then to Party B Step . The signaling and methods for call routing features are well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications networks.

When the MES receives the call request from the Network Control for the call from Party A the MES then sends a query message to the MEP database including the identifier associated with Party A to request the personalized audio processing parameters for Party A Step . These parameters are looked up by the MEP using well known database methods and then transmitted from the MEP to the MES Step . The MES then configures an audio processing function or set of functions based on the personalized parameters obtained for Party A s specific hearing needs. This personalized audio processing function will be applied to the audio media sent to Party A during the network connection.

Next the MES sends a call request message to Party B through the Network Control Step . Although not necessary for the media enhancement service operation in one embodiment of the invention the call request from the MES to Party B will include the Caller ID telephone number network address or other identifier of Party A Step . The techniques to implement the call request and set the Caller ID of the calling party to be Party A rather than the telephone number associated with the MES are well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications.

Before at the same time or after the MES sends the call request to Party B through the Network Control the MES sends a call alerting message to Party A through the Network Control to inform Party A that Party B is being alerted to the call from Party A . In most telecommunications networks Party A will receive the call alerting message and generate a signal e.g. audible ringing to be received by the person at Party A to indicate Party B is being alerted to the call request from Party A .

After Party B accepts the call Party B sends a call accepted message to the MES through the Network Control Step . Before at the same time or after the call accepted message is sent by Party B to the MES Step through the Network Control the Network Control sends a message to the Network Signaling and Transmission to establish an audio path e.g. a voice trunk between the MES and Party B Step through the Network Switching and Transmission concluded at Step .

After the MES receives the call accept message from Party B the MES sends a call accept message to Party A through the Network Control in response to the original call request received from Party A Step . Before at the same time or after the call accept message is sent from the MES to Party A through the Network Control Step the Network Control sends a message to the Network Signaling and Transmission to establish an audio path e.g. a voice trunk between the MES and Party A Step through the Network Switching and Transmission concluded at Step . The two way audio path between Party A and Party B is routed through the MES Step . In this embodiment the MES uses personalized audio processing functions to enhance the audio transmitted to Party A. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the order of the call sequence may vary in accordance with the present invention and wherein the system is capable of providing audio signals in accordance with personalized audio parameters to one or more audio recipients.

When Party B initiates a network connection request a call to Party A Step by signaling Party A s network address for example the telephone number to the Network Control over communication link Step the Network Control determines the routing for the call from Party B to Party A and also procedures to implement features enabled for Party A Step . Party A may be identified by the network by means including the telephone number or network address associated with Party A a serialized code e.g. a MAC Media Access Control address or an IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identifier used in cellular devices associated with the device of Party A transmitted during call set up or any other method which provides an identifier used to identify the person device or access line associated with Party A that is used by the Network Control to identify that the call has the media enhancement service activated and thus Party A s incoming call from Party B is routed or forwarded to the MES Step .

The Network Control implements a connection request a call to the MES with the parameters in the connection request including the Party A network address e.g. telephone number the final destination for the call other Party A identifier to be used by the MES and Party B s network address e.g. Party B s telephone number and an indication that the connection request is to be connected through the MES and then to Party A Step . The signaling and methods for call routing or call forwarding features are well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications networks.

When the MES receives the call request from the Network Control for the call from Party B the MES then sends a query message to the MEP including the identifier associated with Party A to request the personalized audio processing parameters for Party A Step . These parameters are looked up by the MEP using well known database methods and then transmitted from the MEP to the MES . The MES then configures an audio processing function or set of functions based on the parameters obtained for Party A s specific hearing needs. This personalized audio processing function will be applied to the audio media sent to Party A during the network connection Step .

Next the MES sends a call request message to Party A through the Network Control Step . Although not necessary for the media enhancement service operation in a preferred embodiment the call request from the MES to Party A will include the Caller ID telephone number network address or other identifier of Party B . The techniques to implement the call request and set the Caller ID of the calling party to be Party B rather than the telephone number associated with the MES are well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications.

Before at the same time or after the MES sends the call request to Party A through the Network Control the MES sends a call alerting message to Party B through the Network Control to inform Party B that Party A is being alerted to the call from Party B Step . In most telecommunications networks Party B will receive the call alerting message and generate a signal e.g. audible ringing to be received by the person at Party B to indicate Party A is being alerted to the call request from Party B .

When Party A accepts the call Step Party A sends a call accepted message to the MES through the Network Control . Before at the same time or after the call accepted message by Party A is sent to the MES through the Network Control Step the Network Control sends a message to the Network Signaling and Transmission to establish an audio path e.g. a voice trunk between the MES and Party A Step through the Network Switching and Transmission concluded at Step .

After the MES receives the call accept message from Party A the MES sends a call accept message to Party B through the Network Control in response to the original call request received from Party B Step . Before at the same time or after the call accept message is sent from the MES to Party B through the Network Control Step the Network Control sends a message to the Network Signaling and Transmission to establish an audio path e.g. a voice trunk between the MES Step and Party B through the Network Switching and Transmission Step . The two way audio path between Party B and Party A is routed through the MES concluded at Step . The MES uses audio processing functions to enhance the audio transmitted to Party A .

The processes for making call requests the ensuing call accept messages and setting up audio connections are well known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications. The invention uses these well known processes to implement the media enhancement service with call connections routed through the MES to provide personalized audio processing which is enabled during telephone connections.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES obtains the personalized audio processing parameters for calls routed through the MES before the call occurs. This could occur during the provisioning process during normal network information updates or any other method.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES obtains the personalized audio processing parameters for the call after the call connection i.e. audio streams starts. The MES then configures an audio processing function or set of functions based on the personalized parameters obtained for Party A s specific hearing needs. This personalized audio processing function will be applied to the audio media sent to Party A during the network connection.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES is configured or enabled with personalized audio processing parameters for calls routed through the MES before the call is set up. In another embodiment of the invention the MES is configured or enabled with personalized audio processing parameters for calls routed through the MES after the call is set up.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES exists either physically or logically between the end users receiving the media enhancement service such that all incoming and or outgoing calls for end users subscribed to the media enhancement service are carried through the MES element without call routing logic required in the network. In this embodiment of the invention all of Party A s calls incoming and or outgoing are routed through the MES and during or after call set up Party A is identified either by the person establishing the call from Party A e.g. user code voice recognition the device used by Party A or the access line used by Party A then the MES is configured and enabled and the personalized audio processing parameters associated with Party A are used. In this embodiment of the invention the type of network architecture is in use for premises based PBX systems and key systems. This architecture can also be implemented in any network which provides audio processing capabilities such as IMS MRFP Media Resources Function Processors for all calls carried in the network.

In another embodiment of the invention a telephone device e.g. a cellular handset an IP telephone provides the media enhancement features. Similar to the network based media enhancement service descriptions in this embodiment of the invention using a telephone device to implement the media enhancement features the telephone device will receive the audio processing parameters from the provisioning server or another system that generates the personalized audio processing parameters and then the media enhancement service is implemented in the telephone device. The personalized audio processing feature could then be controlled locally enabled or disabled by the user of the telephone device.

In another embodiment of the invention in addition to the telephone device including the media enhancement features as described previously the telephone device also includes an application to provide provisioning server features. An example of such a feature is described as follows.

The telephone device user selects to start an application which has been installed into the telephone device. Installing and accessing applications into telephone devices is well known to those skilled in the art of telephone device programming. The application presents hearing related tests as previously described to find the preferred parameters for one or multiple audio processing functions MEFs . For example passages of spoken speech with different equalizer settings are played to the telephone device s speaker and the user is asked which passage is preferred. The parameters associated with the passage of speech selected are then selected as the parameters for an equalizer MEF and the parameters are stored and then used to process the audio received. In other embodiments of the invention any other methods may be used to locally on the telephone device obtain personalized audio processing parameters to improve the intelligibility or quality of the audio signal heard by the user of the telephone device.

In another embodiment of the invention in the case where Party A has the MES audio processor enhancing the audio sent from Party B to Party A the audio processing parameters used by the MES are selected or modified dynamically based on the MES analyzing the noise received in the audio stream from Party A which indicates the room noise or noise in the environment in which the media enhancement service user is listening.

In another embodiment of the invention the audio processing parameters used by the MES are selected or modified dynamically based on the MES analyzing the noise received from Party B .

In another embodiment of the invention the audio processing parameters used by the MES are selected or modified dynamically based on analyzing the noise from Party A and the noise from Party B .

A network connection or call is comprised of three stages 1 network connection set up 2 network connection control and 3 network connection media transport. During set up call routing and call related information is assembled and transmitted within the network to establish the desired call connection. During control the network connection may be configured via interaction of network entities that may occur during set up or after the connection is established. Media transport is what occurs after the call is set up and the media of the call e.g. audio is transmitted thorough network elements between end points.

The previous descriptions provided network connection routing and call set up sequences and timings for embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention control enabling and disabling the MES routing or not routing calls to the MES or configuring the MES audio processing parameters during any of the three stages of the network connection including 1 network connection set up 2 network connection control and 3 network connection media transport.

Other embodiments of the invention use different methods for network connection set up and connection control with the result being network connection audio is passed through the MES and personalized audio processing is applied to the audio stream sent to the media enhancement service user.

Other embodiments of the invention use call routing call control direction of the call media through the MES and retrieval of parameters by the MES occurring through interactions with any features or functions provided by any network element including any of call forwarding call acceptance call redirection call deflection SIP control functions SIP proxy operation Media Gateway operations settings associated with an application server settings associated with a central switching office an IMS Call Session Control Function CSCF an IMS Application Server AS e.g. a SIP AS an IMS Voice Call Continuity VCC server an IMS Media Resource Function MRF server an IMS Open Services Access Gateway OSA GW an IMS Back to Back User Agent B2BUA a Home Subscriber Server HSS a telephone exchange a Mobile Switching Center MSC or MSC Server Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic CAMEL Intelligent Network IN features Advanced Intelligent Network AIN features Service Switching Point SSP AIN Intelligent Peripheral IP AIN Service Control Point SCP AIN Signal Transfer Point STP AIN INAP JAN JAIN SIP OSA Parlay APIs Parlay X an http or web server use of the settings associated with call or session routing in either the network element or in another route or switch controlling network element.

Embodiments of the invention may be configured in any variety of telecommunication networks including but not limited to a closed or private network e.g. a LAN a public network e.g. the PSTN and any combination of interconnected networks where terminated originated or routed network connections and the different parts of the process of network connection set up control media transport may be carried over any network and any combination of networks including Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network Public Voice over IP VoIP network Private Voice over IP VoIP network Wireless network Private LAN based network Cable based network Multimedia network.

Embodiments of the invention may operate using any type of transmission and switching types for network connection set up control and media transport including but not limited to packet switched circuit switched land based i.e. wire cable optical etc. and air based i.e. wireless .

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented within any network type using any protocols for network connection set up control and media transport including but not limited to Internet Protocol IP Session Initiation Protocol SIP Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Frame Relay FR Signaling System 7 SS7 ICMP ICMPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol IGMP Internet Group Management Protocol IP Internet Protocol version 4 IPv6 Internet Protocol version 6 MARS Multicast Address Resolution Server PIM Protocol Independent Multicast Sparse Mode PIM SM RIP2 Routing Information Protocol RIPng for IPv6 Routing Information Protocol for IPv6 RSVP Resource ReSerVation setup Protocol VRRP Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol ISTP Mobile IP Mobile IP Protocol RUDP Reliable UDP TALI Transport Adapter Layer Interface TCP Transmission Control Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol Van Jacobson compressed TCP XOT X.25 over TCP BGMP Border Gateway Multicast Protocol Diameter ISAKMP IKE Internet Security Association and Key Management Protocol and Internet Key Exchange Protocol iSCSI Small Computer Systems Interface LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol MZAP Multicast Scope Zone Announcement Protocol NetBIOS IP NetBIOS IP for TCP IP Environment COPS Common Open Policy Service FANP Flow Attribute Notification Protocol Finger User Information Protocol FTP File Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol IMAP4 Internet Message Access Protocol rev 4 IMPPpre IMPPmes Instant Messaging and Presence Protocols IPDC IP Device Control IRC Internet Relay Chat Protocol ISAKMP Internet Message Access Protocol version 4 rev 1 ISP NTP Network Time Protocol POP3 Post Office Protocol version 3 Radius Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RLOGIN Remote Login RTP Real time Protocol RTSP Real time Streaming Protocol SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol S HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol SLP Service Location Protocol SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol SOCKS Socket Secure Server TACACS Terminal Access Controller Access Control System TELNET TCP IP Terminal Emulation Protocol TFTP Trivial File Transfer Protocol WCCP Web Cache Coordination Protocol X Window.

Embodiments of the invention may implement the MES the MEP and the PS as stand alone discrete elements or these elements may be integrated with other network elements including but not limited to each other an Application Server AS A SIP Application Server AS a Voice Call Continuity VCC server a Media Resource Function MRF server a Media Gateway Function MGW an Open Services Access Gateway OSA GW a Back to Back User Agent B2BUA a Call Session Control Function CSCF a Home Subscriber Server HSS a Mobile Switching Center MSC or MSC Server Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic CAMEL server Service Switching Point SSP AIN Intelligent Peripheral IP AIN Service Control Point SCP AIN Signal Transfer Point STP AIN a telephone exchange a voicemail server a web server an Interactive Voice Response IVR system.

Embodiments of the invention may implement the MES the MEP and the PS as stand alone elements or these elements may be integrated with other network functions including but not limited to termination of network connection requests from a user termination of network connection requests to a user routing of network connections to a user routing of network connection requests from a user termination of network connections interface to the core Internet Multimedia Subsystem IMS network interface to the core Internet Multimedia Subsystem IMS network using Parlay transcoding of the media stream testing tuning and or optimization functions to determine media enhancement function parameters storage of tuning or optimization parameters to be used in a media enhancement function retrieval of tuning or optimization parameters to be used in a media enhancement function allowing user input for the enabling or disabling of features.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with the MES including audio processing functions including fixed gain equalization automatic gain control AGC compression companding frequency band limiting frequency shifting speech intelligibility enhancement energy redistribution time constant functions noise cancellation noise reduction dynamic configuration based on noise or any audio processing technique which may be used to enhance the audio signal. Alternatively the MES may be implemented as a stand alone function.

The identification of the end point that will have its received audio enhanced by the MES is important. The network may use the identifier to determine how to route calls to the MES . The identifier may also be used in the invention to determine which parameters to use for the MES audio processing including enabling or disabling the MES settings used by any of the audio processing functions and retrieval of the audio processing parameters.

Embodiments of the invention may use identifiers that identify the originating or destination network access line port subscriber etc. Access line and related identifiers used in embodiments of the invention may include but are not limited to MIN Mobile Identity number an IMSI TMSI a phone number an IP address an IP based URL a SIP URI a user name a user selection an account number Caller Identification Caller ID or a subscriber identity indication a virtual connection VC a connection identifier line identification or the like.

Embodiments of the invention may use identifiers that identify the originating or destination device. Device identifiers used in embodiments of the invention may include but are not limited to MIN Mobile Identity number an IMSI TMSI a phone number an IP address an IP based URL a SIP URI a device address or device serial number a MAC address a user name a user selection an account number Caller Identification Caller ID or a subscriber identity indication or the like.

Embodiments of the invention may use identifiers that identify the person for whom the parameters will be applied. Personal identifiers used in embodiments of the invention may include but are not limited user input or selection a username user identifier and automatic speaker identification algorithms operated on the return media stream from the user user speech .

Embodiments of the invention may use identifiers that identify a collection of a classification of users devices access lines or other identifiers for which the MES will provide audio enhancement features.

In another embodiment of the invention Party A s access line connects through the MES such that by nature of the connectivity of Party A the audio path of Party A to the Network Switching will pass through the MES so there is no need to route incoming or outgoing calls through the network to the MES. Examples of a fixed pass through architecture include when the MES is part of the Party A s telephone device an adjunct device connected between Party A and the Network Switching a hotline feature and an element of the Network Switching which connects to Party A without call routing required. The invention works whether Party A s calls are routed to the MES on a per call basis or if all of Party A s calls are connected through the MES .

In another embodiment of the invention Party A s calls are routed to the MES but the audio processing parameters are determined after the call connection is established. This change in operation may occur to hasten call connection timing or it may be used to enable the use of voice recognition for the MES to identify the person connected on a call and then retrieve the personalized audio processing parameters for the person identified.

The order of network signaling messages and connections is not important for the operation of the invention and use of the MES . The invention only requires having the audio stream of Party A s received audio being routed through the MES and for the MES to have a means to identify the party associated with network connection to obtain and or apply the personalized audio processing parameters associated with that party.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES may detect the type of audio media present in the audio stream of the connection and based on personalized media enhancement parameters the audio processing may be enabled or disabled. For example the MES may be enabled if speech or music is detected but disabled if data e.g. modem signaling is detected.

In another embodiment of the invention call routing is determined by identifying the audio media type being speech music or data.

In another embodiment of the invention the call media may include a mixed media type e.g. audio and video . In this embodiment the audio stream would pass through the MES and the video stream would be rejoined with the audio stream as the entire media transmission is transmitted to the destination.

In another embodiment of the invention the endpoint may be a non live person but a recording device or system. The MES will still perform the audio processing but the speech will be transmitted to the voice recording system e.g. answering machine or voicemail .

In another embodiment of the invention the MES works in conjunction with an audio recording system e.g. an answering machine or voicemail and the audio processing of the MES is applied in non real time to the recorded audio that will eventually be heard by the intended listener.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES classifies noise included in the audio stream of the connection. The near end is defined as the end point for which the media enhancement feature is processing the audio to be heard. The far end is defined as the end point to which near end is connected for the call. In this embodiment of the invention the MES analyzes the noise included in the audio signal transmitted from the far end to the near end. The type or parameters of the noise is be determined by ascertaining the voice codec vocoder in use analyzing the spectral content or using autocorrelation techniques on the audio signal or any other methods. In this embodiment the audio processing parameters of the MES are modified based on specific determinants of the noise analysis.

In another embodiment of the invention the MES analyzes the noise signal received in the audio stream transmitted from the near end to the far end. In this case this noise represents the noise environment of the location of the end point for which the personalized audio processing media is transmitted to. In this embodiment the audio processing parameters of the MES are modified based on specific determinants of the near end noise analysis.

The invention will operate using any type of coding scheme used for the audio transmission including but not limited to G.711 G.729 A B AB D G.723.1 G.726 G.728 H.323 G.722 G.722.1 G.722.2 AMR WB L16 256 digital narrow band digital wide band analog narrow band analog wide band or any other coding method used.

In another embodiment of the invention the user of the media enhancement service provides input to enact personalized control of the MES parameters including enabling and disabling the audio processing and controlling specific parameters of the audio processing for example gain equalization and AGC.

In another embodiment of the invention the user of the media enhancement service provides inputs during call set up to control whether the call is or is not routed through the MES or the MES is enabled or disabled. The user input can be on a per call basis or as a setting that may be turned on or off by the user.

User inputs for media enhancement service control and call routing may be via any other network connection and input methods including DTMF in band of the audio stream DTMF to a server for configuration on a call not associated with the audio stream out of band signaling associated with the call e.g. SIP control messages user to user signaling control via an interface that is not directly associated with the call e.g. a web interface to an MES control feature via an operator acting on behalf of the users requests or any other method by which the user may signal to control the media enhancement service audio processing parameters and call routing. The user control inputs may be signaled from the user at any time before or during an audio network connection that uses the media enhancement function including before or during network connection set up and before or during network connection media transport.

In another embodiment of the invention the media enhancement service is offered as a service which the user may register for by any method including access to a webpage to opt in or opt out of the service access to a telephone number call to opt in or opt out of the service access to a webpage to register for the service including entering of user contact information which may consist of one or more of email address phone number address telephone device number user name password and the like the user calling a telephone number and providing information which may consist of one or more of email address phone number address telephone device number user name password and the like and parameters associated with a server providing billing services is modified based upon use or registration or data otherwise entered as part of a registration process.

The invention may be implemented with the MES or MEP functions integrated on the same element with functions used for testing the hearing of users including single or multiple combination of audiogram testing hearing intelligibility testing speech intelligibility testing hearing tuning testing hearing optimization testing signal to noise SNR response testing speech intelligibility testing with noise testing phonetic recognition testing stimulus and response based testing and collection of user related data including age gender occupation known hearing issues and the like.

The invention uses the parameters determined by a hearing test to tune or optimize an audio processor that is used to provide the media enhancement functions. These parameters may be retrieved at any time including before a network connection occurs before a network connection is received by the media enhancement element during the process of a network connection set up an after a network connection has been set up or established.

The invention uses an audio processor for which the tuning and optimization parameters may be stored in any format and the parameters may be retrieved by the MES from any location accessible to the media enhancement element including a database any type of computer file on the same element as the MES on an element connected to the same network on an element connected to a remote network.

The invention uses storage of tuning or optimization parameters to be used in media enhancement functions which may associated with any identification means including storage associated with a device identity storage associated with a line or access subscriber identity and storage associated with a person s identity.

For the case of call flows for a network architecture using an IP based MES and would be modified by the MES element being replaced with the connection of the IP CS Gateway the IP Network and the MES . The associated call setup signaling for example SIP to connect calls through the IP CS Gateway and then through the MES is well known to those skilled in the art of circuit switched packet switched and circuit to packet switched networking.

When Party A initiates a network connection request a call to Party B through an MSC Step by signaling Party B s network address for example the telephone number through an STP Step to an SCP Step the SCP sends call routing information to the STP Step and identifies Party A as an MES subscriber Step . STP then signals STP Step which connects to an SSP Step which connects to an MES Element Step . At this point the MES identifies Party A and obtains audio processing parameters for Party A and sets of the call to Party B Step . The MES then sends the identifier of Party A to SSP Step which sends it to STP Step . STP then routes the call to STP Step through SSP Step and alerts Party B with the identifier of Party A by ringing Step . Audible alerting is then routed back to Party A Step Steps . When Party B answers the call off hook detection is routed to MSC Steps and a 2 way audio connection is established between Party A and the MES Element as well as between the MES Element and Party B Step . The audio path passes through the MES Element for processing the audio stream from Party B to Party A Step .

Outgoing call flows for calls routed to the MES through a packet network are similar to the call flows in except calls made directly to the MES are connected to the IP CS Gateway which then uses IP based call set up signaling for example SIP using INVITE messages to complete the call to the MES . Likewise the MES would then set up calls by sending an INVITE message to the IP CS Gateway for calls whose final destination is on the circuited switched PSTN.

When Party B initiates a network connection request a call to Party A through an SSP Step by signaling Party A s network address for example the telephone number through an STP Step the STP contacts STP Step which sends a call routing information query to SCP Step . SCP indicates to STP the selective call forwarding feature Step where Party A is identified as an MES subscriber and that the call is to be forwarded to the MES Element Step . The call is routed from STP to the MES Element Steps where the MES obtains audio processing parameters for Party A and sets up to call Party A Step . MES Element sends Party B s identifier to MSC Steps which alerts Party A to Party B s identifier and rings Party A s phone Step . An audible alert is routed from MSC to Party B Steps to inform Party B that Party A has been alerted. When off hook detection occurs for Party A Step MSC signals to MES Element the off hook detection Steps which signals the detection event to SSP Steps . A two way audio connection is established between Party A and the MES Element and between the MES Element and Party B Step . The audio path passes through the MES Element for processing of the audio stream from Party B to Party A Step .

Incoming call flows for calls routed to the MES through a packet network are similar to the call flows in except calls made directly to the MES are connected to the IP CS Gateway which then uses IP based call set up signaling for example SIP using INVITE messages to complete the call to the MES . Likewise the MES would then setup calls by sending an INVITE message to the IP CS Gateway for calls whose final destination is on the circuited switched PSTN for example Party A .

In one embodiment of the invention the MES is connected to the PSTN over a PRI Primary Rate Interface or other type link providing out of band call signaling and control using ISDN and SS7 call set up and call control protocols.

Other embodiments of the invention may have the MES MEP and PS connected to the network using other interfaces and other protocols including through a PSTN to IP gateway with the MES connected to an IP network with an architecture as shown in .

Other embodiments of the invention may have the MES MEP and PS combined into one physical element or any combination of the elements combined and the others separate.

IMS features are implemented using information contained in the HSS Home Subscriber Server . Information in the HSS includes call routing instructions for incoming and outgoing calls for each subscriber of the network services. Service control information in the HSS may be controlled by several methods including directly by the AS and other methods well known to those skilled in the art of IMS.

In one embodiment of the invention a subscriber s service would be configured with a call routing feature to route all outgoing calls to the AS and a selective call forwarding feature to forward all calls to the subscriber except for calls from the MES to the AS . Call routing and call forwarding features are well known to those skilled in the art of IP and IMS communications.

When Party A makes a call to Party B a request is sent to wireless access Step which sends an invite to Party B via SIP to the core IMS network Step . The core IMS network indicates to wireless access that it is trying to establish the call Step . The core IMS network is configured to route Party A outgoing calls to AS Step . The core IMS network signals AS to invite Party A to Party B Step . The AS identifies Party A as an MES subscriber and routes the call to the MES Step . AS signals to the core IMS network that it is trying to connect the call Step . AS messages MES of the invitation from Party A to Party B Step . The MES obtains audio processing parameters for Party A and sets up the call to Party B Step . MES signals to AS that it is trying to connect the call Step . The MES sends an invite of Party A to Party B to a gateway SS Step which signals the MES that it is trying to connect the call Step . The gateway SS contacts a CS access from Party A to Party B Step which transmits a ringing signal to Party B with the identifier of Party A Step .

The CS access signals back to Party A that Party B is ringing with an alerting indication i.e. audible ringing Steps . When Party B answers an answer signal is transmitted back to a CS access Step to a gateway SS Step to a MES Step to a wireless access Step to Party A Step . A 2 way audio path is created between Party A and an MES Step between an MES and an IMS MGW Step and between an IMS MGW and Party B Step . Real time packet data passes through the MES for processing the audio stream from Party B to Party A Step .

When Party B makes a call to Party A Party B signals to a CS access Step which signals a gateway SS Step . The gateway SS sends an invite of Party B to Party A to the core IMS network Step which returns a signal to the gateway SS that it is trying to make the call Step . The core IMS network sends an invite of Party B to Party A to an AS Step . The AS identifies Party A as an MES subscriber and forwards the call to the MES Step . The AS returns a signal to the core IMS network that it is trying to make the call Step . The AS sends an invite of Party B to Party A to an MES Step . The MES identifies Party A and obtains audio processing parameters for Party A and sets up the call to Party A Step . The MES returns a signal to the AS that it is trying to make the call Step . The MES sends an invite of Party B to Party A to a wireless access Step . The wireless access returns a signal to the MES that it is trying to make the call Step . The wireless access sends an incoming call indication and an identifier of Party B to Party A Step . A ringing signal is then sent from the wireless access to the MES Step to a gateway SS Step to a CS access Step to Party B which includes an audible ringing signal Step . When Party A answers the call an answer signal is sent from Party A to the wireless access Step . The wireless access sends an answer signal i.e. OK signal to the MES Step which sends the signal to a gateway SS Step which sends the signal to a CS access Step . A 2 way audio path is established between Party A and the MES Step between the MES and an IMS MGW Step and between an IMS MGW and Party B Step . Real time packet data passes through the MES for processing of the audio stream from Party B to Party A Step .

Other embodiments of the invention may have the AS MES MEP and PS connected to the network using other interfaces and other protocols.

Other embodiments of the invention may have the AS MES MEP and PS combined into one physical element or any combination of the elements combined and the others separate.

The provided embodiments enable customized network based audio processing to enhance an audio signal to improve the hearing acuity comfort or listening effort of a specific listener or group of listeners. The network may be a telecommunications network a PSTN network an internet protocol IP network a IMS network a PacketCable Network a wireless network or other network capable of delivering audio or multimedia streams containing audio to a specific intended device listener or group of listeners which may be identified or associated with a unique identifier. Other aspects of the current invention are disclosed as well including the use of a provisioning server to generate parameters from interaction with one or more intended user said parameters being stored associated with the unique identifier and subsequently used by the media enhancement server for the modification of the audio intended for the one or more user or subscriber.

The technology described herein can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The technology described herein can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The technology described herein also can be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

In the embodiments described above the software may be configured to run on any computer or workstation such as a PC or PC compatible machine an Apple Macintosh a Sun workstation a dedicated array monitoring system etc. In general any device can be used as long as it is able to perform all of the functions and capabilities described herein. The particular type of computer workstation or system is not central to the technology nor is the configuration location or design of a database which may be flat file relational or object oriented and may include one or more physical and or logical components.

The servers may include a network interface continuously connected to the network and thus support numerous geographically dispersed users and applications. In a typical implementation the network interface and the other internal components of the servers intercommunicate over a main bi directional bus. The main sequence of instructions effectuating the functions of the technology and facilitating interaction among clients servers and a network can reside on a mass storage device such as a hard disk or optical storage unit as well as in a main system memory during operation. Execution of these instructions and effectuation of the functions of the technology is accomplished by a central processing unit CPU .

A group of functional modules that control the operation of the CPU and effectuate the operations of the technology as described above can be located in system memory on the server or on a separate machine as desired . An operating system directs the execution of low level basic system functions such as memory allocation file management and operation of mass storage devices. At a higher level a control block implemented as a series of stored instructions responds to client originated access requests by retrieving the user specific profile and applying the one or more rules as described above.

Data communication may take place via any media such as standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless links and so on. Preferably the network can carry TCP IP protocol communications and HTTP HTTPS requests made by the client and the connection between the client and the server can be communicated over such TCP IP networks. The type of network is not a limitation however and any suitable network may be used. Typical examples of networks that can serve as the communications network include a wireless or wired Ethernet based intranet a local or wide area network LAN or WAN and or the global communications network known as the Internet which may accommodate many different communications media and protocols.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended key concepts and any claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

