---

title: Publishing an industry business architecture model
abstract: A data-driven mechanism of business rules is used to form associations between business sectors, industries, solutions, solution offerings, and industry business architecture models. The system and method includes use of a navigation hierarchy, and entity diagram to facilitate use by business consultants for access, viewing, navigation, publishing, and updating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954342&OS=08954342&RS=08954342
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08954342
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101112
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 701 245 filed Feb. 5 2010 entitled SYSTEM FOR ENHANCING BUSINESS PERFORMANCE. This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 632 256 filed Dec. 7 2009 entitled ASSESSING THE MATURITY OF AN INDUSTRY ARCHITECTURE MODEL. This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 630 063 filed Dec. 3 2009 entitled SYSTEM FOR MANAGING BUSINESS PERFORMANCE USING INDUSTRY BUSINESS ARCHITECTURE MODELS. This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 631 092 filed Dec. 4 2009 entitled TOOL FOR CREATING AN INDUSTRY BUSINESS ARCHITECTURE MODEL. The above four related applications shall be incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to methods and apparatus for making industry business architecture models IBAMs accessible to business consultants and other general users. In particular the invention permits navigation display and publishing of IBAMs and associations therebetween for a plurality of industries solutions offerings and versions.

Rackham in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 796 367 describes the component modeling process and elements. In particular Rackham describes a component business modeling map and a process for filtering this map to form a heat map of components.

Bhaskaran in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 692 898 filed Oct. 24 2003 discloses end to end business process solution creation with business measurements and initiatives according to defined business goals and objectives of an entity. Business operations of the entity are modeled in terms of business process elements including process tasks artifact flows artifact repositories and business commitment elements including key performance indicators. Bhaskaran s model and process elements may be continuously refined over a solution development lifecycle.

Ang in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 496 917 filed Jul. 31 2006 describes a goal service modeling approach using key performance indicators for measurement of attainment of goals. Rackham Bhaskaran and Ang shall be incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Bhandari in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 630 063 filed Dec. 3 2009 and Ser. No. 12 631 092 filed Dec. 4 2009 describes systems for creating industry business architecture models and for managing business performance using such models. Bhandari also describes in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 632 256 filed Dec. 7 2009 a system for assessing the maturity of such industry business architecture models. The above three applications by Bhandari shall be incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The system of the present invention is used to make IBAMs available to business consultants and other general users to browse navigate display and consume IBAM content easily. It is a data driven solution framework for publishing a plurality of IBAMs and their constituent model elements along with all the relationships and associations within and between IBAMs. The invention takes an existing IBAM which has been created using the systems and methods described in the incorporated references and captures depicts and publishes the elements and the associations relationships and linkages between and within the elements.

The construction of an IBAM and its creation are described in incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 603 063 and 12 631 092. Various tools may be used to create the individual models of an IBAM. For example a IBM CBM Tool a product of International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk N.Y. may be used to create CBM models b IBM Websphere Business Modeler a product of International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk N.Y. may be used to create process models c IBM Rational Software Architect with SOMA ME plugin a product of International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk N.Y. may be used to create service models d IBM Infosphere Data Architect a product of International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk N.Y. may be used to create data models. Other equivalent software products and tools may also be used. Collateral and documents may be created through tools such as word processors spreadsheets HTML editors or any other tools.

However none of the existing tools recognize or address the capability of publishing an IBAM in its entirety. The term publishing shall be taken herein to mean making IBAMs and their content accessible to business consultants and other general users over the network or in disconnected mode for browsing viewing navigating updating and using the content therein in their work. In addition none of the existing tools address the capability for publishing display or navigation of IBAMs and its constituent model elements along with the various associations within and between IBAMs and other related elements and concepts. The present invention provides such a tool as described below.

The present invention provides a generic and technology agnostic data driven framework comprising a a role based and business rule based context aware mechanism for navigation of IBAMs and their constituent model elements and the various associations within and between the elements and or IBAMs b a flexible data model schema to capture and depict IBAMs and their constituent model elements and associations. The present invention also provides an example IBAM publishing system and tool which uses this data driven framework and data model schema for capture and publishing of IBAMs over a network or in disconnected mode.

In a Sector may contain multiple Industries or Service Lines . Each Industry may have one or more Industry Solutions Map . An example Industry Solutions Map is shown in . Each Industry Solutions Map may have one or more Industry Solution and each Industry Solution may have Solution Offerings . An Industry Business Architecture Model may be associated with one or more Industry Solutions or Solution Offerings with one or more Industry Solutions Maps and in some cases even with multiple industries or service lines and or sectors.

An IBAM may contain one or more Component Business Model CBM one or more Process Model one or more Service Model one or more Information Model Knowledge Assets and Collateral one or more Contact Person and Other Models . Each IBAM also has an Aggregate Maturity Level . Within an IBAM the constituent elements of CBM Process Model Service Model Information Model Knowledge Assets and Collateral Other Models and Contact Persons may be associated in a pre defined or a random manner.

In an IBAM may contain one or more Component Business Model CBM . Each CBM may have a Maturity Level Contact Person SME identified and Knowledge Assets and Collateral . Each CBM may contain one or more CBM Map . Each CBM Map contains one or more Business Competency one or more Accountability Level and one or more Business Component . A CBM Map may also contain one or more View . A Business Competency may have Strategic Capability Failure Symptom and Subject Area . A Business Component may have Activity and KPI Metric . A Business Component may also be associated with one or more Process one or more Service one or more Data Entity one or more Message and one or more Business Term . These associations can be direct such as Business Component is associated with Process or derived such as Message is associated with Service Service is associated with Process Process is associated with Business Component thus Message is associated with Business Component .

In an IBAM may contain one or more Process Model . Each Process Model may have a Maturity Level Contact Person SME Subject Matter Expert identified and Knowledge Assets and Collateral . Each Process Model contains one or more Process Catalog one or more Business Item one or more Resource one or more Role Classifier and Organization . These terms have the same meaning as their standard meaning in the context of the domain or subject of Process Modeling. A Process Catalog contains one or more Process . There may be more than one instance of Process . A Process can contain one or more Task . A Process is depicted by a Process Diagram and can contain or be associated with one or more KPI Metric . A Process Catalog Process or Task can be associated with industry standard process hierarchies such as those defined by the APQC Process Classification Framework PCF . A Process may also be associated with one or more other Process or another instance of Process one or more Business Component one or more Service one or more Data Entity one or more Message and one or more Business Term . These associations can be direct such as Process is associated with Business Component or derived such as Message is associated with Service Service is associated with Process thus Message is associated with Process .

In an IBAM may contain one or more Service Model . Each Service Model may have a Maturity Level Contact Person SME identified and Knowledge Assets and Collateral . Each Service Model contains one or more Service Catalog . A Service Catalog contains one or more Service . There may be more than one instance of Service . A Service can have one or more Service Interface . A Service can be depicted by a Service Diagram . Each Service Interface can have one or more Parameter . A Service may also be associated with one or more other Service or another instance of Service one or more Business Component one or more Process one or more Data Entity one or more Message and one or more Business Term . These associations can be direct such as Process is associated with Service or derived such as Business Component is associated with Process Process is associated with Service thus Business Component is associated with Service .

In an IBAM may contain one or more Information Model . Each Information Model may have a Maturity Level Contact Person SME identified and Knowledge Assets and Collateral . Each Information Model contains Data Model Message Model and Business Glossary Model . An Information Model can be depicted by one or more diagram such as an entity relationship diagram etc . A Data Model consists of one or more Data Catalog . A Data Catalog can have one or more Data Entity and each Data Entity has one or more Entity Attribute . There may be more than one instance of Data Entity . A Message Model consists of one or more Message Catalog . A Message Catalog can have Message and each Message has Message Parameter . There may be more than one instance of Message . A Business Glossary Model contains Business Term . A Data Entity or Message may be associated with one or more other Data Entity or another instance of Data Entity one or more other Message or another instance of Message one or more Business Term one or more Service one or more Process and one or more Business Component . These associations can be direct such as Data Entity is associated with a Message or derived such as Business Component is associated with Process Process is associated with Service Service is associated with Message thus Business Component is associated with Message .

In an IBAM may contain one or more Knowledge Assets and Collateral each of which may have Maturity Level and a Contact Person SME identified. Knowledge Assets and Collateral may consist of different types of artifacts such as Assets Products Demos Diagrams Documents Education and Offerings File Attachments Links URLs Marketing Collateral Reference Architectures Standards and Frameworks and other collateral. Other models within an IBAM such as CBM Process Model Service Model and Information Model can have associated Knowledge Assets and Collateral . The Knowledge Assets and Collateral elements numbered and as depicted in and are similar.

The Maturity Level and is related to the Aggregate Maturity Level in the same manner as described by Bhandari in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 632 256 filed Dec. 7 2009 entitled ASSESSING THE MATURITY OF AN INDUSTRY ARCHITECTURE MODEL.

In there is shown an example IBAM publishing system is depicted by the highest level component IBAM Publisher . The IBAM Publisher component represents the overall mechanism and tool for publishing an IBAM. It may be realized as a software application or tool using any appropriate combination of technologies and architecture and design constructs. The IBAM Publisher component consists of other components such as Search Manager Help Manager Administration Engine Security Manager Display Manager Navigation Manager and IBAM Manager .

All search functionality within the IBAM Publisher is controlled by the Search Manager component. This includes context sensitive parametric or generic search or search using any external mechanism or service.

The Help Manager component provides user help including context sensitive help generic help Frequently Asked Questions etc. The Administration Engine component is the controller for all the functionality required for the administration of the tool including user administration data updates etc.

The Security Manager component has the responsibility for managing the overall security of the IBAM publishing mechanism. The User Access Manager component controls the access that individual users have to specific models artifacts navigation hierarchies and other published elements. The Directory Services Engine component provides an appropriate user authentication and authorization mechanism.

The Display Manager component controls the display and user interface for the entire IBAM publishing mechanism. The Display Manager controls the Model Display Manager component. The Model Display Manager component controls the display and interface for individual models such as Component Business Model Process Model Service Model Information Model etc. It is also used by the IBAM Manager component to control the display and interface for an IBAM. The Display Manager also controls the Navigation Manager component.

The Navigation Manager component controls navigation hierarchies and user navigation throughout the IBAM publishing mechanism. This component in turn is used by the Display Manager component for user navigation features.

The IBAM Manager component controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of an IBAM . It uses the Model Display Manager component to control the display for the constituent models such as Component Business Model Process Model Service Model Information Model Knowledge Assets and Collateral etc. The IBAM Manager component manages and controls the components Component Business Model Manager Process Model Manager Service Model Manager Information Model Manager Knowledge Assets and Collateral Manager Association Manager Contacts Manager Business Rules Manager Data Manager and Database .

The Business Rules Manager component manages all business rules applicable for the publishing display and or role based navigation of IBAMs or their constituent model elements. It is used invoked by all other components as required.

The Data Manager component provides the data interfaces application programming interfaces APIs services required to interact with the Database or data repository which stores the IBAM data content. It is the main component responsible for managing interactions with the database and is used by all other components for all data transactions create read update delete . Other components cannot directly interact with the database.

The Database component implements the IBAM data model schema and stores all IBAM related data. This component may be realized through a combination of data repositories including relational databases and content repositories for rich media in a flexible manner. The data and content may be locally stored or it may be on the network.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Component Business Model Manager and Association Manager components. The Component Business Model Manager controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of Component Business Models and controls the Component Business Model Display Manager Component Business Model Renderer and Component Business Model Parser components. The Component Business Model Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Component Business Model and uses the Component Business Model Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Component Business Model Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Component Business Model Parser component and renders the Component Business Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Component Business Model Parser component obtains the data from the database or data repository through the IBAM Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

The Component Business Model Manager manages the CBM Map Manager component which manages all aspects related to the publishing and display of a single CBM Map. It controls the CBM Map Display Manager CBM Map Renderer and CBM Map Parser components. A Component Business Model could consist of multiple CBM Maps in which case the Component Business Model Manager component would instantiate and interact with multiple instances of the CBM Map Manager component.

The CBM Map Display Manager component controls the display user interface views and details for a single CBM Map. This component uses the CBM Map Renderer component to get the rendered views for display. The CBM Map is displayed dynamically based on run time choices made by the user. The Component Business Model Display Manager component can use this component to display a formatted CBM Map.

The CBM Map Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the CBM Map Parser component and renders a CBM Map in formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means.

The CBM Map Parser component obtains the data for a single CBM Map through the IBAM Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules. It sends the parsed data to the CBM Map Renderer component.

The Association Manager component manages all aspects related to the publishing and display of associations or linkages between different elements of a model or between different elements across models in an IBAM or across IBAMs. It controls the Association Display Manager Association Renderer and Association Parser components.

The Association Display Manager component controls the display of associations or linkages between different elements of a model or between different elements across models in an IBAM or across IBAMs. This component uses the Association Renderer component to get the rendered views for display. The associations or linkages are displayed dynamically based on model elements chosen at run time by the user or based on the user s context in the navigation hierarchy. The Navigation Manager component indirectly uses this component through the Model Display Manager component.

The Association Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Association Parser component and renders associations or linkages between different elements of a model or between different elements across models in an IBAM or across IBAMs as formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means.

The Association Parser component obtains the association data from the database through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules. The data obtained from the database may be dynamically determined by the runtime choices made by the user such as selecting a model element or clicking a specific link . The component sends the parsed data to the Association Renderer component.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Process Model Manager component. The Process Model Manager controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of process models and controls the Process Model Display Manager Process Model Renderer and Process Model Parser components. The Process Model Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Process Model and uses the Process Model Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Process Model Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Process Model Parser component and renders the Process Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Process Model Parser component obtains the data from the database or data repository through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Service Model Manager component. The Service Model Manager controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of service models and controls the Service Model Display Manager Service Model Renderer and Service Model Parser components. The Service Model Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Service Model and uses the Service Model Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Service Model Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Service Model Parser component and renders the Service Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Service Model Parser component obtains the data from the database or data repository through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Information Model Manager component which controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of information models. The Information Model Manager manages the Data Model Manager Message Model Manager and Business Glossary Manager components.

The Data Model Manager component controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of data models and controls the Data Model Display Manager Data Model Renderer and Data Model Parser components. The Data Model Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Data Model and uses the Data Model Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Data Model Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Data Model Parser component and renders the Data Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Data Model Parser component obtains the data through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

The Message Model Manager component controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of message models and controls the Message Model Display Manager Message Model Renderer and Message Model Parser components. The Message Model Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Message Model and uses the Message Model Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Message Model Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Message Model Parser component and renders the Message Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Message Model Parser component obtains the data through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

The Business Glossary Manager component manages the Glossary models within an Information Model and controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of the glossary models business terms. This component controls the Business Glossary Display Manager Business Glossary Renderer and Business Glossary Parser components. The Business Glossary Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the Business Glossary Model and uses the Business Glossary Renderer component to get the rendered model views for display. The Business Glossary Renderer component obtains the parsed data business terms from the Business Glossary Parser component and renders the Business Glossary Models through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Business Glossary Parser component obtains the data through the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Knowledge Assets and Collateral Manager component. The Knowledge Assets and Collateral Manager controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of collateral and artifacts associated with an IBAM and controls the Collateral Display Manager Collateral Renderer and Collateral Parser components. The Collateral Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the collateral artifacts and uses the Collateral Renderer component to get the rendered artifact views for display. The Collateral Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Collateral Parser component and renders the collateral artifacts through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Collateral Parser component obtains the data from the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

In the IBAM Manager component manages the Contacts Manager component. The Contacts Manager controls all aspects related to the publishing and display of contact names associated with an IBAM and controls the Contacts Display Manager Contacts Renderer and Contacts Parser components. The Contacts Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of the contact information including names designation areas of expertise etc and uses the Contacts Renderer component to get the rendered views for display. The Contacts Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Contacts Parser component and renders the contact information through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Contacts Parser component obtains the data from the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

In the Display Manager component manages the Rich Media Manager component. The Rich Media Manager component manages all aspects related to the publishing and display of rich media such as audio video images and files or attachments that may be associated with IBAMs. It controls the Rich Media Display Manager Rich Media Renderer and Rich Object Parser components.

The Rich Media Display Manager component controls the display user interface and views of rich media based on the media type audio video images files . This component uses the Rich Media Renderer component for rendering of rich media which may be displayed dynamically based on run time choices made by the user.

The Model Display Manager Component Business Model Display Manager CBM Map Display Manager Process Model Display Manager Service Model Display Manager Data Model Display Manager Message Model Display Manager Business Glossary Display Manager and Association Display Manager components use the Rich Media Display Manager component to handle the display of rich media such as audio video images and files in an IBAM.

The Rich Media Renderer component renders rich media such as audio video images or file attachments in supported formats for display on the user interface. It provides its output to the Rich Media Display Manager. It gets its input data from the Rich Object Parser component.

The Rich Object Parser component processes rich objects audio video images attachments which may be linked to a model element in an IBAM based on the applicable business logic and business rules. The component sends the parsed data to the Rich Media Renderer component.

The Industry Solutions Map Display Manager component controls the display user interface views and details for an Industry Solutions Maps. This component uses the Industry Solutions Map Renderer component to get the rendered views for display. The Industry Solutions Map is displayed dynamically based on run time choices made by the user. The Industry Solutions Map Renderer component obtains the parsed data from the Industry Solutions Map Parser component and renders the industry solutions map through pre defined or user specified formatted views. The layout and look and feel of these views could be controlled by data received through the component call mechanism through business rules or templates or by any other means. The Industry Solutions Map Parser component obtains the data from the Data Manager component and parses it based on the applicable business logic and business rules as specified by the Business Rules Manager component.

The Model Display Manager Component Business Model Display Manager CBM Map Display Manager Process Model Display Manager Service Model Display Manager Data Model Display Manager Message Model Display Manager Business Glossary Display Manager and Industry Solutions Map Display Manager components use the Association Display Manager component to display associations linkages and relationships between different elements of a model or across models in an IBAM or across IBAMs.

The present invention detailed herein thus provides an IBAM publishing system and tool using a data driven framework and flexible data model schema for capture and publishing of IBAMs over a network or in disconnected mode.

In there is shown a network system upon which an IBAM can be published using the system of the present invention. System of includes a business enterprise having server and data storage device having databases or content repositories . System also has client systems and representing computer workstations laptops personal data assistants cell phones or any other client device known in the art. Those of ordinary skill in the information technology arts will recognize that client systems and may be used to access IBAMs either over a network or in disconnected mode using known networking techniques including use of web browsers or other user interfaces known in the art. System may also include a network connection to the Internet or any other network whether broadband or not depicted by the cloud and lightning elements of .

In there is shown flowchart depicting steps of a process for carrying out an embodiment of the present invention. In step a map of components of activities is built. For a particular client business a component shall be taken to mean a group of cohesive business activities supported by appropriate processes applications infrastructure and metrics. Applications may be software applications supporting a business activity. Each component is flexible. Components may work in any combination or sequence with other components to get the job done. Each component may be individually scalable and extensible.

The columns of matrix are activity categories which will be industry specific. However once a good component map is built for any client it may be used for any other client or competency in that specific industry. Business activities are determined in interviews supported by subject area specialists to identify both current and future capabilities. Activities may be specified in the following general terms 

Components within the activity categories should be able to be extracted e.g. outsourced without disrupting the enterprise. Smart components may be defined and represent opportunities for development by the services providing company. A component map when built depicts the future enterprise and industry leading practices. The level of detail is appropriate for the required analysis is retractable and expandable . Activities are performed only in one component.

The column titles in represent an example of activity categories for a specific industry. Activity categories for a client company in another industry such as the insurance industry may be those shown below in Table 1.

In step of the component map built in step is filtered to form a heat map. For each activity category in component map capabilities are defined that summarize how the organization seeks to perform in that aspect of its business. Target competitive levels are then determined for each capability. For example levels of base competitive or differentiated may be used. The competitive levels are then translated onto component map e.g. color coding or shading of components in map may be used to indicate the level.

Cost filtering as shown in may also be performed in step . For example a cost pie of 100 may be allocated to the activity categories columns . In 15 of cost is allocated to Product Development Risk Management. The allocation may be based on cost center data. Any other basis of allocating cost may be used such as by the number of full time equivalent FTE people required to perform the activities involved. For each column the allocated cost is then distributed across components in that column on another basis for example headcount. In the 5 allocated to Business Administration is distributed across the components in the last column by headcount.

Cost and revenue filtering may also be depicted by dollar value sorting into high medium and low buckets e.g. 

The results of cost and or revenue filtering are also summarized on the component map such as by indicating the cost and or revenue levels or bucket for each component.

After applying the filtering just described components are selected to form a heat map. Selected components should be components that drive the primary strategy of the company such as low cost provider brand servicing and have a large gap between the current and desired capabilities. Components that have a large potential to increase revenue or reduce cost may also be selected. Components that the client or interviews have identified as problematic may be selected. Components required to perform key functions may also be selected.

In step attributes are defined for the selected components in the heat map. Attributes may be defined based on a competency lens provided in step . Attributes to analyze a component are based in the general service area and the specific project offering. The key functions of a component are attributed based on the current and desired industry maturity level. On demand attributes are used when the intent of the analysis is migrating the client company toward an on demand solution. This defining attributes step may need to be applied iteratively or repeated.

The competency lens provided in step includes competency offerings such as business strategy information technology IT strategy organizational strategy and operations strategy. For example use of the organizational strategy competency offering in the competency lens to analyze or evaluate based on a criteria a selected component in the heat map may lead to defining skills or roles as an attribute for that selected component. Attributes of processes or consumption may be associated with use of the operations strategy competency offering in the competency lens of step . The component is then assessed based on the defined attributes and any gaps or shortfalls are noted.

In step collaborations for components are identified. Patterns may be applied to candidate components. These patterns are used to model how the components might collaborate dynamically to support key business processes such as launching a product acquiring a new customer or detecting and responding to fraud. The patterns can be matched to the behaviors of components to identify structural process improvement opportunities as well as on demand opportunities. Examples of patterns are listed below in table .

Returning now to in step a business component solution stack is built using the heat map the defined attributes and the identified collaborations. The attributes and collaborations are layered onto the components in the two dimensional heat map forming a three dimensional stack of potential solutions. The solution stack represents a framework for the desired future state vision of the client company.

Revenue levers may be applied to the component attributes by determining how fast revenue is impacted by the component. Examples of revenue levers are market penetration franchise penetration share of wallet customer retention profit margin profit fees profit processing overhead and avoidable losses.

Cost levers may also be applied. Examples of cost levers include new customer acquisition staff turnover productivity time to money and asset optimization. These are determined as a dollar value per year.

The revenue and cost lever values are applied to the components and may be used in building the solution stack in step .

In step quick hits and investment opportunities are developed from the solution stack. An assessment is performed for each attribute to determine shortfalls or gaps as compared to best industry practice. Current and desired future capacities are defined for base competitive and differentiated levels. A functionality analysis is performed for each component and the services it references and offers to other components.

From these analyses of the solution stack framework projects having a short development cycle and rapid benefit known as quick hits are developed. Longer term projects with significant payback known as investment opportunities are also developed. On a listing of quick hits and investment opportunities each project may be categorized. For example categories may be an application enhancement AE new application green field GF application reduction AR and business process only BP .

In step a roadmap of tasks for implementing each project is defined. For each project a project template may be used to fully document the critical aspects of the project. For example the template may include project description a high level cost benefit analysis risks approach work effort estimate dependencies and outputs.

In step the projects are prioritized relative to each other based on the entries in the templates creating a portfolio of opportunity. Projects designated as quick hits define the first wave of implementation. Further waves of projects are selected from the prioritized opportunity portfolio and implement in step .

Client systems may be operated by representatives of business enterprise including business consultants information technology IT professionals architecture specialists business professionals management and system administrators. The term business enterprise shall be taken herein to refer to the organization operating the IBAM publishing system of the present invention.

Network connecting client systems to server may comprise a LAN WAN wireless infrared radio or any network configuration known in the art. Business enterprise operates the IBAM publishing system and publishes IBAMs via server client systems or a combination of these.

Server has data storage attached either directly or via network . Data storage has a plurality of databases or content repositories included therein.

System may also include wired or wireless connection to a wide area network including multiple geographical locations interconnected by high speed data lines or radio links as depicted by the lightning and cloud elements of .

In an exemplary embodiment the IBAM publishing system may be executed on server and the published IBAMs accessed using clients or on a combination of the above.

While there have been shown and described what are considered the preferred embodiments of the invention it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

