---

title: Differential vane vehicle control
abstract: A ducted fan air-vehicle capable of generating control moments. The ducted fan air-vehicle includes an air duct, a fan, a center body, a plurality of control vanes. The vanes are independently controlled and are deflected in the same direction but at different angles, thereby providing an increased control moments to the vehicle compared to the prior art. The increased pitching moment allows for additional control authority. Additional control authority is useful in forward flight and is especially desirable when the ducted fan air-vehicle is maneuvering in unsteady or turbulent winds or with various types of cargo that may effect the vehicle center of gravity location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08511602&OS=08511602&RS=08511602
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08511602
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100128
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. HR0011 05 C 0043 awarded by DARPA Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

The application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 359 407 filed Jan. 26 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Ducted fan air vehicles typically have at least one ducted fan and a fan engine to drive the fan blades. These vehicles may be preprogrammed to perform operations autonomously or they may be controlled by a human operator. Ducted fan air vehicles are well known for excellent stationary hovering aerodynamic performance and have the ability of forward flight.

Ducted fan air vehicles have become increasingly used in a variety of applications. Such applications include military situations such as surveillance reconnaissance target acquisition data acquisition communications relay decoy harassment or supply flights. These vehicles are also used in a growing number of civilian applications such as fire fighting police observation reconnaissance support in natural disasters and scientific research.

Many of these applications require that the ducted fan air vehicles carry a variety of payloads or cargo. For example ducted fan air vehicles may need to carry visual sensors infrared sensors cameras radio communication devices inertial sensor units ground level sensor units and or other payloads. This cargo may cause a shift in the center of gravity which can create negative interference with airflow characteristics inside the duct by blocking air intake and exhaust and create additional drag on the vehicle when the vehicle is in forward flight. When the vehicle CG changes the center of lift needs to change in order have the aerodynamic forces balance the forces due to gravity acting on the vehicle.

Ducted fan air vehicles are designed to have a specific center of gravity in order to be effective and controllable. These vehicles are sensitive to even slight weight redistributions i.e. any change to the weight distribution can impact the airflow within the duct. Accordingly even slight modifications to the cargo payload can negatively impact performance specifically stability. Differing weight distributions are typically dealt with by either developing a new variation of the vehicle or developing an entirely new aircraft for each type of cargo. Both designing a new aircraft and developing a variation of the vehicle are time consuming and costly.

Furthermore some flight conditions and mere forward flight can interfere with the desired airflow characteristics and by implication flight control and performance. It is important to design the vehicle with the proper CG location or range of locations just as for a fixed wing aircraft.

The present invention provides an example ducted fan air vehicle that provides differential control of one or more vane pairs to generate a pitching moment. The vanes generate aerodynamic control forces and moments. The primary purpose of the vanes is to generate pitch roll and yaw moments to enable control of the vehicle. The pitching moment facilitates control of the vehicle. The control is beneficial in forward flight as well as in extreme conditions such wind and gusts. The control could also be used to balance out different types of cargo or counteract shifting cargo.

The vehicle includes an air duct a fan a center body a plurality of control vanes located within or downstream from the air duct and a separate servo for each control vane for independently controlling each vane. Two adjacent control vanes are deflected in the same direction. The first vane is deflected to a first angle and the second vane is deflected to a second angle different from the first angle. The first angle of the first vane maintains desirable airflow around the second vane. The differential between the two angles allows the first vane to deflect at a greater angle than if the vanes were deflected at the same angle. The increased angle of the first vane allows for an increased pitching moment.

In accordance with further aspects of the invention a flight control system determines the orientations of the vanes to generate a desired pitching moment and control the movement of the vanes accordingly.

As will be readily appreciated from the foregoing summary the invention provides a ducted fan air vehicle capable of generating improved pitching moments through differential vane control.

The ducted fan air vehicle also includes a stator assembly . In this embodiment the stator assembly is located just under the fan in the air duct to reduce or eliminate the swirl and torque produced by the fan by providing the correct amount of anti torque to counteract engine fan torque. In this embodiment the stator assembly adds to the vehicle s structural integrity.

The ducted fan air vehicle also includes a plurality of fixed or moveable control vanes for providing the necessary forces and moments for vehicle control. The vanes include leading edges and trailing edges . The vanes may be located under the fan within the air duct . In this embodiment the vanes are connected to the air duct by control vane supports . The vanes may be placed below the exit section of the air duct . The vanes are placed in the fan airflow and away from the vehicle center of gravity CG location. The farther away the vanes are placed from the CG the better they are at generating moments for vehicle altitude control. The vanes may also include moveable flap surfaces at a trailing edge . The flap surfaces deflect as the vanes are deflected. The moveable flap surfaces enable the control vanes to produce more lift than a single rigid surface.

A servo converts electrical signals to mechanical energy in order to move the vanes to desired orientations. In one embodiment of the present invention the surface of each vane includes its own servo or method of independent actuation as shown in . In an alternative embodiment an externally mounted servo moves the vanes via a system of linkages as shown in . With each vane having its own servo the vanes are free to move independently. In this embodiment a flight control system which is part of an avionics system controls the deflection of the vanes by sending command signals to the servos . The flight control system is a collection of on board electronics sensors computer etc. and is located wherever there is suitable space.

If the vehicle encounters a strong unsteady wind or gust during flight the wind could cause tilt the vehicle in a different direction than it was originally travelling. In response to the tilt induced by the unsteady conditions it is desirable for the vehicle to quickly be tilted in response to stabilize its flight and maintain control. To achieve the desired nose down tilt into the wind the vehicle must overcome the inherent nose up pitch moment present on the windward side of the duct lip. Therefore tilting the vehicle into the wind requires overcoming its natural tendency to pitch away from the oncoming wind.

Traditional ducted fan air vehicles generate a pitching moment by deflecting the vane pair in the same direction at equal AOAs i.e. the first AOA and the second AOA are substantially identical. The magnitude of the pitching moment generated depends on the amount of deflection i.e. greater AOAs and lead to a generated pitching moment with greater magnitude. However the magnitude of the generated pitching moment is limited because the vane pair is limited in how far it deflects. Specifically if the vane pair is adjusted beyond a threshold angle a stall condition is triggered resulting in undesirable air flow over the control vane and a reduced pitching moment is experienced.

The vehicle generates an improved pitching moment by deflecting the vane pair in one direction but deflecting the individual vanes and at different angles. The orientations of the first vane and the second vane are adjusted so that the second AOA is greater than the first AOA . The different orientations of the vane AOAs allow the second vane to extend beyond the tandem threshold angle. The airflow generated by the first vane reduces the stall characteristics of the second vane . More specifically the air flow generated by the first vane allows airflow on a top surface of the second vane to maintain contact an AOA greater than the tandem threshold angle without generating a stall condition. The increased deflection of the second vane beyond the tandem threshold angle allows for the generation of an increased pitching moment with reduced risk of stalling the control vanes.

Although shows the vanes being rotated clockwise they are capable of being deflected in the counterclockwise direction.

In operation the differential between AOAs and can vary from 0 to max . The AOAs and range from a first AOA and end at a max AOA. Deflecting beyond these maximum values can lead to a stall condition. In one embodiment the differential defined by the first AOA and the second AOA is 10 degrees. In another embodiment the differential defined by the first AOA and the second AOA is 20 degrees. The specific differential defined by AOAs and that generates the desired balance between generated pitching moment reduced thrust depends on the properties of the specific ducted fan air vehicle such as the distance between the first vane and the second vane . Thus the differential defined by the first AOA and the second AOA may smaller than 10 degrees larger than 20 degrees or any angle in between. Other properties that influence the desired angular difference between the two vanes include chord length of vanes vane airfoil shape vane flap design Reynolds number . In one embodiment the optimal vane deflection values for generating various pitching moments for various vehicle configurations are stored in a look up table included in the avionics system.

In one embodiment more than one pair of adjacent vanes are deflected in the same direction at different AOAs. In other words multiple pairs of adjacent vanes are deflected at different AOAs to generate a desired combination of control moments for executing desired movements.

Compared to traditional methods where the vanes are deflected in tandem the inventive differential control of the vane pairs generates an improved pitching moment and thereby facilitates improved control of the vehicle . The improved control could be used in forward flight as well as in extreme conditions such wind and gusts. The improved control could also be used to balance out different types of cargo or counteract shifting cargo.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

