---

title: Method and system for simulating wireless networks
abstract: A method, that comprises selecting for simulation a first cell comprising a access station. The method also includes determining a first cell pattern comprising a first plurality of cells surrounding the first cell. The method additionally includes simulating, for each cell of the first plurality of cells, at least one wireless parameter associated with at least one wireless signal. The method further includes determining a second cell pattern comprising a second plurality of cells surrounding the first cell pattern. Each cell of the second plurality of cells comprises a copy of a simulation result of a corresponding cell of the first plurality of cells. The method also includes simulating, for the first cell, at least one wireless parameter associated with at least one wireless connection. The simulation is based on the simulation results of the first plurality of cells and the copied simulation results of the second plurality of cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08711714&OS=08711714&RS=08711714
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08711714
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present invention relates generally to wireless networks and more particularly to methods and systems for simulating wireless networks.

System level simulation is a common part of the design evaluation and optimization of wireless networks including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and Third Generation Partnership Project Long Term Evolution 3GPP LTE and any other wireless technology or protocol. During the design phase of the air interface the system capacity and network coverage is often evaluated through detailed system level simulation. During the simulation the effect of different capacity enhancement techniques and interference management and reduction techniques e.g. Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO beamforming Spatial Division Multiple Access SDMA power control fractional frequency reuse interference coordination and cancellation may be evaluated.

Typically the simulation involves a network divided into clusters containing nineteen hexagonal cells laid out in a hexagonal pattern. The analysis focuses on individual cells where the cell currently being simulated is at the center of a cluster of nineteen cells and is often referred to as the target cell. The analysis involves simulating two rings of cells around the target cell to assess the interference generated in those cells. For a wireless link including both the uplink and downlink the Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio SINR of a transmission from transmitter i to receiver j is given as 

The teachings of the present disclosure relate to a method comprising selecting a first cell for simulation. The first cell represents a first access station comprising a first interface configured to communicate wirelessly with at least one endpoint within the first cell. The method also includes determining a first cell pattern comprising a first plurality of cells surrounding the first cell. Each cell of the first plurality of cells comprises an access station. The method additionally includes simulating for each cell of the first plurality of cells at least one wireless parameter associated with at least one wireless signal. The method further includes determining a second cell pattern comprising a second plurality of cells surrounding the first cell pattern. Each cell of the second plurality of cells comprises a copy of a simulation result of a corresponding cell of the first plurality of cells. The method also includes simulating for the first cell at least one wireless parameter associated with at least one wireless connection the simulation based on the simulation results of the first plurality of cells and the copied simulation results of the second plurality of cells.

Technical advantages of particular embodiments may include simulating a wireless network in which at least a portion of the cells surrounding a target cell are copies of other cells that have been simulated. This may decrease the computational load required to simulate a network without having a significant impact on the quality of the simulation results. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

The components of simulation system may be used to simulate interference from outside of a respective target cell. In particular embodiments this may involve a detailed transmission scheduling algorithm and a power control algorithm being implemented in simulating a reduced number of cells as compared to the nineteen cells traditionally simulated . To simulate the reduced number of cells more realistically particular embodiments may duplicate the simulation of the reduced number of cells and then de correlate and or distribute the duplicate cells around the reduced number of cells. This may allow the simulation system to run simulations that take into account a large number of cells e.g. thirty seven while only fully simulating a small portion of those cells e.g. seven . This may allow for accurate simulation results without large computational complexity. Full simulation may involve simulating at least one parameter of at least one wireless connection associated with an access station within a particular target cell. Depending on the embodiment the simulation of a target cell may comprise one or more of the instantaneous channel condition of connection to one or more endpoints the selection of a particular endpoint the MCS and transmission scheme used the QoS of the user traffic flows the ARQ HARQ processes or any other factor feature or parameter that may be desired.

Simulation system may include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein.

The components of simulation system may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout of the components discussed with respect to simulation system .

As an example and not by way of limitation simulation system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these.

Where appropriate simulation system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate simulation system may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation simulation system may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more simulation systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments simulation system includes computer program processor memory storage input output I O interface communication interface and bus . These components may work together in order to simulate one or more wireless networks. Although a particular simulation system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable simulation system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up computer program . Computer program comprises instructions to perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation simulation system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system another access station or an endpoint to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate.

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to access station where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Mass storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments I O interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between simulation system and one or more I O devices. Simulation system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and simulation system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or encoded software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate.

In particular embodiments communication interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between simulation system and one or more other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network. Depending on the embodiment simulation system may be used in any suitable network and may comprise any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation simulation system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example simulation system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Simulation system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate.

In particular embodiments bus may include hardware encoded software or both coupling components of simulation system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The components and devices illustrated in may be used to simulate one or more features and or components of a wireless network. In simulating a wireless network particular embodiments may provide simulations with enough detail to provide realistic results. The accurate simulation of uplink from the endpoint to the access station and or downlink from the access station to the endpoint transmissions may be done while keeping the computational complexity relatively low. Particular embodiments may achieve these goals by fully simulating a reduced number of cells within a cluster. The simulated cells may then be duplicated de correlated and or redistributed around the reduced number of cells that were fully simulated.

Depending on the embodiment the various cell layouts depicted and described herein in may comprise repetition patterns that may be applied to uplink simulation as well as downlink simulation. In downlink simulation particular embodiments may perform detailed simulation of multiple cells. For example when neighbor cells do not operate independently but need to coordinate their transmissions. An example of this is coordinated multi point transmission or distributed MIMO. In uplink simulation particular embodiments may use the cell layout pattern to simulate joint reception at multiple access stations.

Thus far several different embodiments and features have been presented. Particular embodiments may combine one or more of these features depending on operational needs and or component limitations. This may allow for great adaptability of simulation system to the needs of various organizations and users. For example a particular embodiment may use multiple computers which distribute the computational load during a simulation. Some embodiments may include additional features.

The simulations may determine transmission patterns e.g. position of an endpoint within a cell the transmission power of the endpoint and MIMO precoding beamforming matrix CDMA code when applicable . By only simulating seven of the nineteen cells particular embodiments may reduce the computational load involved in simulating the wireless network. Moreover by including the duplicate cells the simulation of target cell may be more accurate than only using cells surrounding target cell .

In particular embodiments replicating cells to produce duplicate cells D D may comprise de correlating the duplicate cells. For example duplicate cells D D may comprise a time shift from cells . As another example replicating cells may comprise rotating cells by a certain number of degrees e.g. 120 or 240 to produce duplicate cells D D. In certain situations each duplicate of a particular cell may be time shifted or rotated by a different amount.

Although in the depicted embodiment the same cell e.g. cell is duplicated multiple times e.g. duplicate cells D and D each of these cells the duplicate cells and the corresponding original cell are two cells apart. Moreover particular embodiments may time delay the transmissions or rotate the cell orientation to further reduce the correlations of transmission in different duplicate cells. These techniques may reduce or eliminate inaccuracies in the simulation results that may have been caused by the duplicated cell.

In the depicted embodiment cells the cells which are simulated in full detail are surrounded by cells with different transmission patterns. For example cell is surrounded by cells . As another example cell is surrounded by cells and and duplicate cells D duplicate of cell D duplicate of cell and D duplicate of cell . This may increase the accuracy and fidelity of the simulation results.

In particular embodiments the accuracy of the simulation may be increased by performing de correlation when replicating cells . Similar techniques may be used as those discussed above with respect to . In certain embodiments different duplicate cells may be de correlated in a different way. For example different sub groupings within duplicate cells D D may be time shifted different amounts of time or may be rotated a different number of degrees. In some embodiments duplicate cells D D may comprise a mixture of different shift times and different rotational amounts.

Cellular networks are typically interference limited so the users near the cell edge are mainly constrained by the interference produced by other users in other cells. This may be true both for the uplink and the downlink connection between the access station and the endpoint. In particular embodiments the simulation of each cell may include interference generated by two rings of surrounding cells. This may produce simulation results with very high fidelity which may satisfy the usual simulation fidelity requirements of a cellular network.

Cluster provides a cell layout and repetition pattern that may support fractional frequency reuse. In this embodiment cluster consists of twelve cells . The arranged of cells may represent the minimum number of cells that can be arranged in a pattern that can be repeated indefinitely in the 2D plane. Cluster may be repeated to create a layout of arbitrary size in which the cell neighbor constraint discussed above is carried over faithfully with the repetition including at the boundary of clusters.

In particular embodiments cells are simulated in full detail and then duplicate cells D D may be generated by repetition of cluster de correlation schemes may be applied as before in these duplicate cells D D . The thirty six duplicate cells D D represent the cells considered to satisfy the condition that cells simulated in full detail cells are surrounded by two rings of cells. This may provide the simulation of cells with relatively realistic interference from neighboring cells.

The cell layout and repetition patterns depicted in may be used in downlink as well as uplink simulations. Moreover in some embodiments coordinated multi point which employ distributed transmission and joint reception techniques may be studied using these cell layout schemes.

At step a first cell pattern is determined. The determined first cell pattern may include a plurality of cells that surround the first cell. This may ensure that the simulation of the first cell includes at least one ring of neighbors. The arrangement of cells in the first cell pattern may be dependent on the type and or features of the wireless network to be simulated. For example where the simulated wireless network comprises access stations that use the entire frequency bandwidth the first cell pattern may comprise six cells that surround the first cell as illustrated in cells and cells . In particular embodiments this arrangement is based on each cell having a hexagonal shape. Some embodiments may use cells having a different shape comprising more or less sides than a hexagon. This may change the number of cells used to surround the first cell.

In certain embodiments it may be necessary to include additional factors other than ensuring that the first cell is surrounded by a ring of neighboring cells. For example in embodiments in which the simulated network uses fractional frequency reuse the first cell pattern may need to account for the number of frequency sub bands that are to be used by the access stations. For example in the depicted embodiment comprises a first cell pattern having twelve cells. This first cell pattern ensures that the target cell is surrounded by a ring of neighboring cells that all use a frequency sub band different than the frequency sub band used by the first cell. In situations in which more or less frequency sub bands are to be used the first cell pattern may be adjusted accordingly.

At step the cells of the first cell pattern are simulated. The simulation may be a full simulation that includes such factors as potential interference from neighboring cells. Depending on the embodiment and the desired accuracy of the simulation each cell surrounding the target cell may itself be surrounded by one e.g. two e.g. or more rings of neighboring cells. Adding additional cells to the simulation may increase the accuracy of the results while also increasing computational load of the simulation.

At step a second cell pattern is determined. The second cell pattern comprises multiple cells surrounding the first cell pattern. As with the first cell pattern the number of cells and their arrangement may be based in part on the shape of the cells and or the features or components of the simulated wireless network. It may also be based on the desired level of accuracy and or the desired computational load. For example in the second pattern comprises twelve duplicate cells in the second pattern comprises thirty duplicate cells and in the second pattern comprises thirty six duplicate cells. As the number of cells increase so to does the accuracy of the simulation and the computational load increases may not be directly proportional .

For example in an embodiment in which FRR is to be used during the simulation determining the second cell pattern may comprise duplicating and spatially shifting the entire first cell pattern to surround the first cell pattern. This may ensure that no node is bordered by another node using the same frequency sub band. In particular scenarios simply duplicating and shifting the first cell pattern may result in a second cell pattern that includes a large number of cells. Accordingly particular embodiments may limit the second cell pattern to a portion of the duplicated cells. For example in the embodiment depicted in the second cell pattern is limited to two rings of cells surrounding the first cell pattern.

The cells used in the second cell pattern may comprise duplicates of one or more of the cells of the first cell pattern. In replicating the cells of the first cell pattern to be used in the second cell pattern particular embodiments may apply some form of de correlation to decrease the similarities or correlation between duplicate cells thereby improving the accuracy of the simulation. In particular embodiments the de correlation may comprise a time delay applied to the cells of the first cell pattern a rotation of the cells of the first cell pattern or any other technique or combination of techniques that may involve a computationally simple manipulation of the cells of the first cell pattern. In particular embodiments the same technique may be applied multiple times. For example if a particular cell is to be duplicated twice the first time it is duplicated it may be rotated 120 degrees and the second time it is duplicated it may be rotated 240 degrees.

At step the first cell is simulated. The simulation of the first cell may take into account the simulated results of the cells in the first cell pattern as well as the duplicated results arranged in the second cell pattern. This may provide an accurate simulation without having to perform a full simulation on a large number of cells. For example in the embodiment depicted in only seven cells are fully simulated while the simulation of the target cell includes nineteen cells in the embodiment depicted in only seven cells are fully simulated while thirty seven are used in the simulation in which each of the seven fully simulated cells accounts for the impact of two surrounding rings of cells and in the embodiment depicted in while only twelve cells are simulated forty eight cells are used in the simulation in which each of the twelve fully simulated cells accounts for the impact of two rings of neighboring cells.

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified re ordered or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart without departing from the scope of particular embodiments. For example in particular embodiments the second cell pattern may be determined prior to simulating the cells of the first cell pattern. Then once the cells of the first cell pattern have been simulated the results may be associated with the appropriate duplicate cells.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that they do not limit the scope of this disclosure and that various other changes substitutions combinations and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within simulation system such as processor and storage the elements of particular embodiments may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular simulation needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to simulation system or each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that various embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

