---

title: Hands free bomb suit tool carrier
abstract: A bomb suit carrier is constructed from a sheet of fabric material shaped to fit within the front torso portion of a bomb suit. A sheet of loop material is attached to the sheet of fabric material and a plurality of parallel straps are attached to the side of the sheet of fabric material having the sheet of loop material. The parallel straps form a pouch attachment ladder system and include loop material along their entire length. A hole passes through the sheet of fabric material to accommodate a rapid doffing handle of a bomb suit to which the bomb suit carrier is attached. An attachment mechanism is provided to secure the sheet of fabric material to the bomb suit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209769&OS=08209769&RS=08209769
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08209769
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100520
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Explosive ordnance disposal EOD technicians wear a heaving protective bomb suit. These technicians require tools to be used in evaluating and disabling an explosive device and often weapons to be used for their personal protection. The protective bomb suits are constructed to provide for maximum protection and do not provide for or accommodate the transport of tools and weapons.

Therefore the technicians must carry the tools by hand which occupies the technician s hands and limits the number of tools that can be transported to a bomb site. The tools can also be placed in a bag. The use of the bag also occupies the hands of the technician to transport the tools and the technician often has a rather limited range of motion and sight due to the bomb suite. Therefore a system is needed to transport tools and weapons to an incident site for technicians wearing bomb suits.

Systems and methods in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a bomb suit carrier and bomb suit carrier system that includes a sheet of fabric material shaped to fit within the front torso portion of a bomb suit. In one embodiment the sheet of fabric material is ballistic nylon and is configured as an upper portion and a separate lower portion attached to the upper portion along a seam. In one embodiment the sheet of fabric material is sized to attach to and to cover a chest plate carrier of the bomb suit.

The bomb suite carrier also includes a sheet of loop material attached to the sheet of fabric material and covering one side of the sheet of fabric material. This side is the front or outer side of the sheet of fabric material.

A plurality of parallel straps are attached to the front or outer side of the sheet of fabric material having the sheet of loop material. The parallel straps are attached to the side of the sheet of fabric material to form a pouch attachment ladder system PALS and each strap has loop material attached along its entire length. In one embodiment each parallel strap has a width from about 1 inch to about 1.5 inches and the parallel straps are spaced apart by a distance from about 1 inch to about 1.5 inches.

A hole passes through the sheet of fabric material and the sheet of loop materials and is sized to accommodate a rapid doffing handle of a bomb suit to which the bomb suit carrier is attached.

An attachment mechanism is provided attached to the sheet of fabric material and configured to secure the sheet of fabric material to the bomb suit. In one embodiment the attachment mechanism includes a pair of side straps and a top strap attached to the sheet of fabric material and arranged to connect together on a back side of the sheet of fabric material opposite the side containing the sheet of loop material. The side straps and top strap include hook and look fasteners to secure the side straps and top strap together.

The attachment mechanism also includes an elastic section attach to the back side of the sheet of fabric material at an end of the sheet of fabric opposite the top strap and an adjustable back strap attached to the back side of the sheet of fabric material. In addition a front strap is provided running along the side of the sheet of fabric material containing the sheet of loop material. The front strap includes hook material in contact with the loop material.

In one embodiment a plurality of accessory components is attached to the front side of the sheet of fabric material that contains the sheet of loop material. Each accessory component uses at least one of a hook material in contact with the loop material and the pouch attachment ladder system to secure that accessory component to the sheet of fabric material. The accessory components include pouches pistol holsters magazine holders knife holders flashlight holders and combinations thereof.

The bomb suit carrier system also includes a bomb suit having a chest plate carrier attached to and covering a front torso portion of the bomb suite. The sheet of fabric material is shaped to fit cover the chest plate carrier and the attachment mechanism is attached to the sheet of fabric material and configured to secure the sheet of fabric material to the chest plat carrier or the bomb suit.

In this embodiment the attachment mechanism includes a pair of side straps and a top strap attached to the sheet of fabric material and arranged to connect together around the chest plate carrier on a back side of the sheet of fabric material opposite the front or outer side containing the sheet of loop material. The attachment mechanism also includes an elastic section attached to the back side of the sheet of fabric material at an end of the sheet of fabric opposite the top strap. The elastic section size is sized and shaped to accept an end of the chest plate carrier. Therefore the bottom of the chest plate carrier fits in the elastic section like a pocket.

In one embodiment the attachment mechanism includes an adjustable back strap attached to the back side of the sheet of fabric material and running between the chest plate carrier and the bomb suit. The attachment mechanism includes a front strap running along the side of the sheet of fabric material containing the sheet of loop material. The front strap includes hook material in contact with the loop material.

The bomb suit carrier system includes a plurality of accessory components attached to side of the sheet of fabric material containing the sheet of loop material. Each accessory component uses at least one of a hook material in contact with the loop material and the pouch attachment ladder system to secure that accessory component to the sheet of fabric material. The accessory components include pouches pistol holsters magazine holders knife holders flashlight holders and combinations thereof.

Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of a hands free bomb suit tool carrier system in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. The tool carrier system includes a bomb suit and a hands free bomb suit carrier that is attached to and fixedly secured to the front of the bomb suit. Suitable bomb suits to be used with the tool carrier system include but are not limited to the Explosive Ordnance Division EOD 8 and EOD 9 Bomb Suits that are commercially available from the Allen Vanguard Corporation of Ottawa Ontario Canada.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the hands free bomb suite carrier is illustrated. The bomb suit carrier is constructed from two panels an upper panel and a lower panel that are joined together along a seam . The two panels together have a suitable size and shape to cover the front torso area of the bomb suit and to fit over the chest plate carrier of the bomb suit. In one embodiment as indicated in the two joined panels have a width of about 11.5 inches and a length of about 26.5 inches.

The upper and lower panels are constructed of a layer of flexible fabric. Suitable fabrics include but are not limited to ballistic nylon. A complimentary sheet of loop material is attached to the front of the upper panel . Similarly a complimentary sheet of loop material is attached to the front of the lower panel . These loop materials have a complimentary shape so that the entire front surface of the upper and lower panels contain loop material. The loop material is one half of a two part hook and loop type fastener. Therefore any object or tool having the complimentary hook portion of the hook and loop type fastener can be attached to any point on the front of the bomb suit carrier . The loop materials are attached to the upper and lower panel using any suitable attachment mechanism. In an exemplary embodiment the loop materials are attached using stitching.

Running horizontally along the upper and lower panels is a plurality of parallel straps . Each strap is stitched to the upper or lower panel along its ends . The straps are not attached to the upper and lower panels along the sides or horizontal surfaces. A plurality of vertical stitches are made through all of the straps . As illustrated herein all stitches are shown as dashed lines. These stitches are made for example at intervals from about 1 inch to about 1.5 inches and in particular about 1.25 inches along the length of each strap . Each strap has a width from about 1 inch to about 1.5 inches and is constructed from a flexible fabric that has loop material on its outer surface.

Therefore even with the straps attached the entire front of the bomb suit carrier is loop material. In addition the size spacing and stitching of the straps on the front of the upper and lower panels creates a Pouch Attachment Ladder System PALS that can also be used to attach tools and tool carriers to the bomb suit carrier. The PALS system is known and available in the art.

A hole is provided generally in the center of the bomb suit carrier . This hole is sized to accommodate the rapid doffing handle of the bomb suit . Therefore even with the bomb suit carrier attached to the bomb suit the rapid doffing handle can be accessed and utilized for rapid removal of the bomb suit .

In order to securely attach the bomb suit carrier to the bomb suit the bomb suit carrier includes a top strap and a pair of side straps . In one embodiment the top strap has a width of about 4 inches and each side strap has a width of about 2 inches. As is illustrated in the two side straps are folded across the back of the bomb suit carrier . The side straps include hook and loop fastening material to secure the straps together. Therefore the chest plate carrier not shown can be placed between the bomb suit carrier and the side straps . The top strap is folded down over the side straps and can be secured to the side straps using appropriately placed hook and loop fastening material. In one embodiment the exposed surface of the top strap can include either a hook material or a loop material that accommodates hook or loop material on the bomb suit to further secure the bomb suit carrier to the bomb suit .

On the back of the lower portion of the bomb suit carrier a large elastic section is provided. The large elastic section is constructed from an elastic material and forms an elastic pocket into which the lower portion of the chest plate carrier of the bomb suit is placed. Therefore the top and side straps secure the bomb suit carrier to the top of the chest plate carrier and the large elastic section secures the bomb suit carrier to the bottom of the chest plate carrier.

As shown in additional attachment support is provided by an adjustable center back strap that is routed behind the chest plate carrier. In one embodiment the adjustable back strap is about 2 inches wide. The adjustable back strap is threaded through an upper attachment point D ring that is secured to the top of the bomb suit carrier and a lower attachment point D ring that is secured to the bottom of the bomb suit carrier . The adjustable center back strap includes both hook and loop material portions along its length to provide for adjusting the length of the back strap and securing the back strap to itself. The chest plate carrier is disposed between the back strap and the back of the bomb suite carrier.

Returning to the bomb suit carrier can be further secured to the bomb suit using a flexible front strap for example a 1 or 2 inch strap that is looped through existing D rings on the bomb suit . The back of the front strap that is in contact with the front of the bomb suit carrier includes a hook material. Therefore the front strap securely attaches to the bomb suit carrier completely across the width of the bomb suit carrier . The flexible front strap also includes additional areas of hook and loop materials so that the strap can be secured to itself after it is looped through the D rings.

In one embodiment the hands free bomb suit tool carrier system of the present invention includes a variety of components that can be attached to the bomb suit carrier using the hook and loop fasteners the PALS system or a combination of the two attachment mechanisms. Suitable materials for these components are the same as for the bomb suit carrier. illustrate an example of the types of components that can be included in the hands free bomb suite tool carrier system.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a pouch is illustrated. The pouch is sized to fit on either the upper or lower portion of the bomb suit carrier and is sized to accommodate the tools or materials to be stored in the pouch. In one embodiment the pouch is a mesh pouch that includes mesh sections . Access to the interior of the mesh pocket is through the top of the mesh pocket which can be closed using a suitable closing mechanism such as a zipper or hook and loop fastener.

A hook material is used to form the back portion of the pouch. In one embodiment this hook portion extends around to the front of the pouch. Therefore the pouch can be attached to any portion of the bomb suit carrier by pressing the pouch against the loop material on the front of the bomb suit carrier. A pair of loops of flexible strap is attached to the pouch to provide a handle or grasping point for removing the pouch from the bomb suit carrier . In one embodiment a strip of loop material is provided on the front of the pouch .

Referring to one component is a pistol holster . A front portion is attached to a back portion along the side edges such that a top opening and bottom opening are provided for insertion of the pistol. A closing flap is provided attached to the back portion to secure the pistol in the holster. The flap includes a strap loop to act as a handle for opening the flap . In one embodiment the back portion includes a hook material to provide for attachment of the holster to the bomb suit carrier. In addition straps not shown can be attached to the holster that are sized and arranged to work with the PALS system of the bomb suit carrier.

Referring to a magazine clip or ammunition holder is provided. In one embodiment the clip holder is formed from a length of material that is folded and stitched to form a pocket portion that is sized to hold the desired pistol clip. A portion of the material is folded over to form a closure flap and a flexible strap loop extends from the flap to provide a handle for opening the clip holder . In one embodiment the back portion includes a hook material to provide for attachment of the clip holder to the bomb suit carrier. In addition straps not shown can be attached to the clip holder that are sized and arranged to work with the PALS system of the bomb suit carrier.

Referring to a flashlight holder is provided. This flashlight holder includes a main portion that runs the length of the flashlight holder . A flexible strap loop extends from the main portion and provides a handle to be used in removing the flashlight holder from the bomb suite carrier. At least the back of the main portion includes a hook material that is used to attach the flashlight holder to the bomb suit carrier. A series of loops are attached to the front of the main portion and are used to secure a flashlight in the flashlight hold.

Referring to a knife carrier is illustrated. As illustrated the knife carrier includes two parts. A first part includes a first part of a two part quick release clip attached to a length of flexible strap . The flexible strap is arranged for attachment to the PALS system of the bomb suit carrier and the first part of the quick release clip attaches to a second part of the quick release strap that is generally attached to the knife sheath. The second part of the knife carrier includes a main body portion of flexible strap. The main body portion can include a hook material to provide for attachment of the main body portion to the bomb suit carrier. In addition straps not shown can be attached to the main body portion that are sized and arranged to work with the PALS system of the bomb suit carrier. A section of fabric is stitched to the main body portion to form a sleeve through which the knife sheath is passed. The end of the knife sheath is held in place by a section of flexible strap attached near one end of the main body . This portion of flexible strap can include portions of hook and loop type fastener fabric to secure the flexible strap around the knife sheath. A loop of flexible strap is also attached to the main body portion to act as a handle to remove the knife carrier from the bomb suit carrier.

An embodiment of the bomb suit carrier system with the bomb suit carrier attached to the bomb suit and the various components attached to the bomb suite carrier is illustrated in .

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

