---

title: Chemical agent detection system for fluid media
abstract: A chemical agent detection system is provided that includes a fluid sampling collector suitable for the collecting, concentrating, filtering and storing of chemical agents. Preferably a solid phase extraction syringe is coupled to an adaptor via an injection port. The adaptor forms an outer surface of a sample containment reservoir that allows the fluid sampling collector to associate with a chemical agent detector such as the M256A2 chemical agent detector. The inventive chemical agent detection system allows rapid, low level on-site detection of chemical agents such as nerve agents in fluid media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08454892&OS=08454892&RS=08454892
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08454892
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
The invention relates in general to a process and apparatus for the detection of chemical agents in fluid media and in particular to collecting samples and concentrating chemical agents contained therein for subsequent detection on a chemical agent detector.

Due to the worldwide spread of chemical arms there is an ever expanding danger of exposure to chemical warfare agents. Water sources are vulnerable to contamination by chemical warfare agents CWA and other hazardous materials. The U.S. Army M272 Chemical Agent Water Testing Kit represents a conventional kit that analyzes water for the presence of nerve agents but is insufficient for detection under many circumstances. For example in hot arid climates where water consumption significantly exceeds 5 liters per day the binary pass fail characteristic of the M272 test kit for nerve agents is inadequate for determining potability since the allowable concentration of agent decreases proportionately with the increase of daily water consumption demands such that the maximum allowable daily dose of agent remains constant. For example the allowable concentration of nerve agent in potable water is 20 ppb 0.02 mg L for temperate climate consumption of 5 liters per day. In hot arid climates the maximum allowable concentration is reduced to 5 ppb 0.005 mg L as water consumption could reach 15 liters per day. Thus a CWA test kit with high sensitivity is an urgent need not only for military personnel in the field but also civilians and agricultural operations in close proximity to a contaminated water source.

Another common problem with existing field test kits is that testing is labor intensive. For example the M272 kit has small glass tubes fitted to a beaker using rubber fittings. To run a test three glass capillary tubes are required as well as the addition of three foil packets of chemicals to the glass beaker at separate times. The M272 kit produces color changes indicative of a positive or negative response for a test agent. At times these color changes can be ambiguous and occur in a small area on a rounded surface of a capillary tube side wall potentially leading to the incorrect reading of results. Test operations performed while wearing protective equipment are especially prone to error. Protective gloves are also vulnerable to being breached by the need to handle and break glass micro capillary tubes that produce glass shards thereby risking exposing a wearer to the agent.

Thus there is a need for a sensitive reproducible and field ready fluid test kit that can be used to detect chemically hazardous agents such as chemical nerve agents other CWAs pesticides herbicides or other environmental hazardous materials.

The following summary of the invention is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present invention and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the invention can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

The United States military has expended great time and effort in creating improvements for the M272 water hazard sampling and detection system. The current inventors have surprisingly discovered that inventive adaptations to an existing M256A2 chemical agent detection kit provide unexpected and significant improvements over the functions of either the M256A2 or the M272 test kits alone. The inventive chemical agent detection system provides a versatile handheld detector that can be used by all soldiers and emergency responders as well as field investigating agents. The inventive system includes a fluid sampling collector for use with a chemical agent detector. A fluid sampling collector includes a sample containment reservoir that is movably attachable to a chemical agent detector and also removably attachable to an adaptor that has an injection port. A fluid sampling container associates with the injection port whereby eluate from the sampling container is transferred to the chemical agent detector through the sample containment reservoir. In a preferred embodiment the chemical agent detector is the M256A2 chemical agent detector.

An inventive adaptor is attachable to the sample containment reservoir preferably by a slot in the reservoir. Thus fitting the adaptor into the sample containment reservoir may provide a seal preventing unwanted fluid escape. The positioning of the adaptor preferably aligns the eluate in the center of a detection region in a chemical agent detector. The adaptor also has one or more channels for associating with the sample containment reservoir. The channels optionally fit into the slot on the sample containment reservoir guiding positioning of the adaptor therein.

A fluid sampling container preferably contains a solid phase media. The solid phase media can be alkyl bonded silica wherein the alkyl chain is a Calkyl chain or alternatively a Hydrophilic Lipophilic Balance HLB cartridge. In a preferred embodiment the sampling container is a solid phase extraction SPE syringe. Numerous methods for removably fitting a sampling container to an injection port on an adaptor are operable herein but are preferably selected from the group including a press fitting a Luer Lok coupling or a needle puncture. The injection port on an adaptor optionally is an orifice that includes a breachable resealing membrane disposed therein.

A fluid is optionally an eluate. An eluate optionally contains an eluted chemical illustratively a pesticide an herbicide insecticide drug chemical warfare agent radioactive agent a biological sample other chemical or combinations thereof. Preferably the eluted chemical agent is a CWA. CWAs preferably detected by the subject invention include blister agents blood agents and nerve agents. Nerve agents particularly preferred include VX tabun GA sarin GB and soman GD .

Also included is an inventive method of detecting the presence of a chemical agent in a fluid medium whereby a chemical agent is adsorbed to a solid phase medium housed in a fluid sampling container. The inventive method includes eluting the chemical agent onto a chemical agent detector through an adaptor that is removably connected to a sample containment reservoir and activating the chemical agent detector to detect the presence or the absence of a chemical agent. Preferably the chemical agent detector is the M256A2 chemical agent detector. Chemical agents preferably detected by the inventive method include pesticides herbicides insecticides drugs chemical warfare agents biological samples radioactive materials toxic or nontoxic chemicals. Preferably the agent is a CWA such as blister agents blood agents and nerve agents. Illustrative nerve agents include VX tabun sarin and soman.

The inventive apparatus and method provide a field analytical method and system for the determination of chemical agents in fluid media such as drinking water. As such the invention provides an unexpected solution to the prior art lack of sensitivity ease of use and safety of use problems. A novel fluid sampling collector is provided that is useful in field expedient sampling of fluidic media particularly when employed as part of the M256A2 chemical agent detection kit. As such the present invention has utility for collecting concentrating and detecting chemical agents in fluidic media.

The current invention provides a versatile handheld detector that can be used in the field by sampling personnel. The inventive detector preferably employs a solid phase extraction method that effectively is used to sample filter concentrate and deliver fluid sample hazards for rapid high sensitivity detection. The current invention allows all detection chemicals and reactants to be present on a single card and uses simple colorimetric chemistry for the detection of chemical agents.

As seen in an inventive chemical agent detection system is shown generally at and includes a fluid sampling container that movably mates with a chemical agent detector . The fluid sampling container is optionally removable. The chemical agent detector depicted in is the M256A2 chemical agent detector but it is appreciated that other chemical agent detectors are similarly operable. Optionally a chemical agent detector contains collecting media that is later processed for chemical detection. Optionally a chemical agent detector is a gas chromatograph liquid chromatograph or a mass spectrometer alone combined or coupled to a liquid chromatography system.

The fluid sampling detector is preferably formed of several components including a sample containment reservoir that movably attaches to a chemical agent detector allowing sample to be deposited in more than one location on the chemical agent detector . An adaptor removably attaches to the sample containment reservoir to form a containment chamber. An adaptor contains an injection port that removably attaches to a fluid sampling container . The fluid sampling detector is used to sample fluidic environmental materials and collect chemicals of detection interest therein. A fluid obtained by eluting a chemical agent from the solid phase media for example in the fluid sampling container is transferred from the fluid sampling container through the injection port and adaptor into the chamber within the sample containment reservoir . The combination of the fluid sampling container and the chemical agent detector provides expanded capability to detect chemical agents within fluidic media such as nerve agents or pesticides.

In a preferred embodiment the sample containment reservoir is formed as a structure constructed of materials that are not degraded by either thermal heating of the eluate or solvent materials that are passed through the sample containment reservoir. Suitable materials illustratively include stainless steel hardened polymeric compositions plastic polymers metals metal alloys composites and the like with selection of the appropriate material determinable by those skilled in the art through ordinary experimentation in light of the disclosure herein including considerations of interfering chemical breakdown products or other interfering materials or processes. Variations and subsequent changes to the sample containment reservoir may include optimized designs or redesigns for production and marketing such as for example and without limitation changes in the size or geometry of the sample compartment reservoir to enhance performance production rates compatibility convenience etc. with designs adjustments or changes preferably completed to maximize diffusion or transfer of sample eluate to allow a more rapid time period or improved detection accuracy by the detector. Preferably the sample containment reservoir has an area from 1.5 cmto 12.0 cm more preferably from 6 cmto 10 cmwith the sample containment reservoir having a receptacle or containment volume of from 0.1 cmto 32 cm more preferably from 1 cmto 6 cm.

While the aforementioned shape and dimensions of a sample containment reservoir are optimized for a card or other solid substrate used as a chemical agent detector the sample containment reservoir is not limited to these sizes or shapes. For example a sample containment reservoir can be spherical cylindrical trapezoidal or other shapes or combinations of more than one overall shape. Optionally internal shaping need not match external shaping. Illustratively a sample containment reservoir can be rectangular in its outer dimensions and have an internal space that is circular or cylindrical. Shape and size considerations are dependent on the type of chemical agent detector intended to be coupled to the sample containment reservoir the portability or packability of the system the presence or absence of intermediate filters or media present in the sample containment reservoir or other considerations that will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art during the use or design of experiments with the inventive system.

A sample containment reservoir optionally includes a heating element such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 036 388. A heating element is optionally used to adjust the temperature or other parameter of the sample as it is deposited onto the chemical agent detector to improve or otherwise adjust the detection capabilities of an inventive system. Additional structural and component considerations of an inventive sample containment reservoir can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 036 388 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in a sample containment reservoir movably attaches to a chemical agent detector such that multiple positions on the chemical agent detector may be exposed to an eluate or other sample transferred through a sample containment reservoir. Preferably a chemical agent detector is the M256A2 chemical agent detection kit including its M256A1 chemical detector that is described in Department of the Army Technical Manual TM3 6665 307 10 titled A Operator s Manual for Chemical Agent Detector Kit M256 6665 01 016 8399 and M256A1 6665 01 133 4964 September 1985. Additional disclosures include the Army Technical Manual TM3 6665 331 10 the M8 chemical agent detection paper described in army supply bulletin SB3 6665 2 and U.S. Army Chemical Research Development and Engineering Center Technical Report CRDEC SP 049 entitled Catalog of Chemicals Contained in Chemical Detector Decontaminating and Training Kits Peter Spaeth July 1992 . The disclosure of each of these references is hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as descriptive of the considerations and operation of a preferred chemical agent detector operable in the present invention.

An inventive adaptor component selectively securing with a sample containment reservoir is shown generally at in . An adaptor includes a plate structure that optionally has one or more grooves constructed therein. The grooves are complementary to a sample containment reservoir by sliding into the slot depicted at in such as to form a Luer fitting. This association optionally provides a sufficient seal such that fluid does not escape the sample containment reservoir when an adaptor is attached thereto. The system increases the level of safety for use of a chemical agent detection system and further allows for a pressure transfer of eluate from a sampling container through an optional membrane or filter and onto a chemical agent detector. An adaptor optionally has one or more sealing mechanisms such as rubber strips or rings that surround the periphery or other location on an adaptor . Alternatively rubber gaskets or other sealing systems are associated with a sample containment reservoir whereby association with an adaptor also allows for a fluidic seal. An inventive adaptor further has an injection port situated on one surface. An injection port is preferably shaped and sized to allow for a removable association with a sampling container .

An adaptor is preferably made from any material used in the construction of a sample containment reservoir .

The dimensions of an adaptor allow the adaptor to associate easily with a sample containment reservoir and preferably does not obstruct the view or use of a chemical agent detector . Principal dimensions include the thickness of an adaptor correlating with the dimensions of the slot on a chemical agent reservoir that the adaptor slides into. Width and length dimensions are preferably complementary to width and length dimensions of a sample containment reservoir. Most preferably an adaptor is dimensioned as to completely encase a reservoir within the sample containment reservoir by allowing for a completely enclosed cubically dimensioned space. As such the length and width of an adaptor is preferably at least the length and width of the internal dimensions of a sample containment reservoir . More preferably the length and width of an adaptor extends to the outer edges of a sample containment reservoir when an adaptor is positioned within the slots of a sample containment reservoir .

In one embodiment an adaptor is integrated with the sample containment reservoir . In this embodiment a single piece system is formed so as to allow for syringe pressure injection applications as well as improved cleanliness in shipping handling or usage.

An injection port is preferably centrally located on an adaptor . It is appreciated that other locations on the adaptor for an injection port are similarly operable. An injection port is preferably of sufficient size in diameter and height so as to allow a sufficient seal between an adaptor and a fluid sampling container such that fluid does not leak from the seal when being injected from the sampling container into a sample containment reservoir . An injection port is optionally an orifice in the surface of an adaptor that is transposed by a membrane . In this embodiment breach of the membrane such as by a needle allows transfer of the sample fluid into a sample containment reservoir . Materials operable for a membrane include rubber or plastics or any other material that may be breachable and resealed following removal of a sample injector such as a needle. Numerous materials for a membrane are known in the art and useful herein.

Preferably an injection port allows for a friction fitting between an adaptor and a fluid sampling container. Numerous fittings are operable herein illustratively including a press fitting a Luer Lok coupling and the like. In a preferred embodiment a Luer Lok coupling is used to attach an adaptor to a sample containment reservoir via the injection port. An injection port optionally contains a filter as a membrane or media therein that allows for additional purification or separation of chemical agents in an eluate from a fluid sampling container . A filter operable herein as a membrane in an injection port are similar to those operable for use in a sample containment reservoir.

In one embodiment an injection port contains a filter seal that when an adaptor is associated with a sample containment reservoir a sealed chamber is formed to improve sterilization and prevent other contaminants from entering a sample containment reservoir during shipping or other handling. Alternatively an injection port is covered at either end or within the port by a breachable seal of foil or other material that allows clean handling and can be easily opened by a user prior to sample injection.

Optionally an adaptor has more than one injection port . Multiple injection ports may be operable for injection or insertion of more than one solvent or other fluids into a sample containment reservoir . Illustratively two injection ports are present on an adaptor . This embodiment allows multiple fluids such as an eluate and a reactive fluid to be simultaneously injected into a sample containment reservoir allowing the reservoir to act as a reaction chamber for enhancing the detection of a chemical agent in an eluate.

A fluid sampling container is any container capable of housing fluid within a chamber. Numerous types of fluid sampling containers are operable with the present invention illustratively including a syringe column pipette Eppendorf type tube or other sealable tube and the like. In a preferred embodiment a fluid sampling container is a syringe. A syringe is preferably coupled to an adaptor via the injection port through a Luer Lok type association. It is appreciated that other types of fittings are similarly operable such as a press fitting.

A fluid sampling container preferably contains a solid phase media . Solid phase media is generally positioned with one or more fits or packing materials so as to hold the solid phase media in position when sample is drawn through the media or eluant eluate is pushed out. A solid phase extraction SPE syringe is most preferred as a fluid sampling container. SPE syringes are available from commercial suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich Company St. Louis Mo. . In a most preferred embodiment SPE material is positioned within an SPE syringe between two fits or packing material. Frits or packing material are preferably polyethylene but other materials such as Teflon or stainless steel are similarly suitable. Frits are available with numerous pore sizes but the pores should be small enough such that the frits can retain the SPE material at a position within the syringe so that the material does not leave the syringe upon elution. Preferably a 20 micrometer pore size is present in a frit.

A SPE syringe or other fluid sampling container is preferably formed of a material that will not react with either the fluid or other material being sampled solvents or other materials used for detecting a chemical agent. Numerous materials are available for the formation of a fluid sampling container illustratively including polypropylene polyethylene glass or other materials known in the art.

Several types of solid phase extraction media are operable herein. The choice of solid phase extraction media will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art depending on the type of chemical agent to be detected and its chemical properties and characteristics. In a preferred embodiment solid phase extraction media is an alkyl bonded silica. More preferably the alkyl chain is a Calkyl chain or HLB packing. Calkyl chains are most useful for reversed phase extraction of nonpolar to moderately polar compounds. It is appreciated that other SPE materials for other types of extraction are similarly suitable in the invention. For example normal phase SPE media is also available. In addition ion exchange such as anion exchange SPE media or cation exchange SPE media is also useful herein as well as size exclusion chromatography affinity chromatography or other chromatographic separation techniques known in the art. Particle size of the packing material and type of packing material will depend on the type of extraction procedures used in the fluid sampling container. For example silica based packing material optionally has 40 micrometer particles with 60 angstrom pores.

An eluant operable for eluting a chemical agent from solid phase extraction media is preferably tailored to the media used. Illustratively an alkyl bonded media is eluted with an eluant containing methanol or methylene chloride. Affinity chromatography is illustratively eluted with an eluant that disrupts the interactions with the ligand bonding the chemical agent of interest. Size exclusion chromatography is preferably performed with an eluant that is chemically inert with respect to the chemical agent for detection. Illustrative examples of eluant components include methanol ethanol isopropyl alcohol IPA dichloromethane DCM hexane heptane acetic acid salts buffers illustratively HEPES Tris or phosphate water or combinations thereof.

Numerous bonding agents such as octadecyl bonding agents are operable to bind and associate with chemicals within a sample. Other examples illustratively include octyl agents butyl dimethyl agents phenyl hydrophobic surfaces cyanopropyl diol aminopropyl quaternary amine sulfonic acid carboxylic acid or no bonding materials. For affinity chromatography such as for the detection of biological agents numerous bonding materials are available illustratively including antibodies nucleic acids aptamers lipids and the like.

An octadecyl bonding agent such as a Cbonding agent is preferred. This material is capable of reverse phase extraction of a wide variety of chemical agents that may or may not be present in a fluid media. Illustrative chemical agents include antibiotics barbiturates benzodiazepines caffeine drugs dyes essential oils fat soluble vitamins fungicides herbicides pesticides hydrocarbons parabens phenols phthalate esters steroids surfactants theophylline water soluble vitamins chemical warfare agents nerve agents hazardous or nonhazardous industrial chemicals and the like. In this embodiment any one or combinations of the aforementioned materials or chemicals is detected by the inventive system. It is appreciated that this is an incomplete list and numerous other chemical agents can be detected by the inventive system.

The inventive chemical agent detection system is suitable for analyzing fluidic as well as solid or vapor samples. Preferably fluidic samples such as water or other environmental fluids illustratively including blood plasma solubilized tissue industrial solvents or other fluid are useful. Alternatively a solid environmental or other sample is analyzed by the inventive chemical agent detection system. Solid samples are preferably dissolved solubilized via soaps surfactants cosurfactants detergents or placed in a fluidic colloidal suspension and agitated so that chemical agents can be transferred to the detector for subsequent detection. In a preferred embodiment a sample and subsequently an eluted chemical agent in an eluate is a pesticide herbicide insecticide drug chemical warfare agent biological sample such as a bacteria virus fungus tissue radioactive material or other chemical. More preferably a sample or chemical agent in an eluate is a chemical warfare agent. Chemical warfare agents are optionally blister agents blood agents and nerve agents. Preferred nerve agents illustratively include VX GA GB and GD. Preferably a sample contains a chemical agent that is isolatable by reversed phase solid phase extraction.

Also provided is an inventive process of detecting the presence of a chemical agent in a fluid medium. The inventive process includes adsorbing a chemical agent to a solid phase media housed in a fluid sampling container. Preferably a fluid sampling container is an SPE syringe. Using an SPE syringe typically in a reverse phase mode optimized for the extraction of analytes from aqueous samples a water sample for example is drawn up by retracting a plunger. The inventive process is similarly operable utilizing a syringe or other fluid sampling container in the absence of a sorbent packing or other solid phase extraction media.

A fluid sample is illustratively passed over SPE media to bind hazardous materials from the fluid on the solid phase media. Chemical agents present in the fluid media such as water are bound by and retained by the SPE media. Several sampling deluge cycles allow a larger amount of CWA analytes to be gathered into the solid phase sorbent packing thereby increasing the CWA concentration and resulting in enhanced detection sensitivity. These procedures also optionally filter out unwanted particulates from the fluidic sample reducing turbidity based interferences. Particulate materials containing diatomaceous earth humic and fulvic compounds that may complex the analyte of interest can also be retained by the packing material frit SPE bed or other filter contained within the fluid sampling container. The retained fluid borne particulate materials within the packing material frit or SPE bed can later be extracted for detection through elution via an appropriate solvent.

A primary advantage of the inventive system is that remote sampling and subsequent analysis of an environmental or other sample is capable by using an inventive fluid sampling container. For example the fluid sampling container does not have to be shipped with or otherwise associated with a chemical agent detector. A fluid sampling container is optionally shipped into the field where a sample is collected and then stored within the fluid sampling container for shipment to a central or other location for chemical agent detection. Preferably a chemical agent detector is shipped along with a fluid sampling container so that the presence or absence of an environmental or other contaminant within a sample can be readily and immediately determined at the sample site.

Once the solid phase has been loaded with the analyte and or additional particulate matter the residual solution is expelled from the syringe. Should a different elution solvent be required the elution solvent can be placed or drawn into the fluid sampling container so as to release bound chemical matter from the solid phase extraction media. When a fluid sampling container is affixed to a water sampler adaptor such as through a Luer Lok or friction type attachment and the adaptor is associated with a sample containment reservoir on a chemical agent detector the eluted sample is then injected onto the chemical agent detector optionally through the sample containment reservoir. Optionally the chemical agent detector is the M256A2 chemical agent detector kit. The No. 3 ampules of the kit are broken to prepare the detection window for hazard deposition prior to elution of the chemical agent from the fluid sampling container. An appropriate solvent with high affinity for CWA analytes and that is compatible with the reagent chemistries of the chemical agent detector such as the M256A2 card is released into the solid phase extraction adsorption bed in the sampling syringe. This elutes the analyte from the solid phase. The solvent is pushed through the solid phase using the syringe plunger carrying the dissolved CWA past and through the sample containment reservoir and depositing sample directly onto the wetted test surface of the M256A2 detector card. It is appreciated that the sample containment reservoir is optionally appropriately sized segregated or unified to optionally direct sample to more than one detector window illustratively on an M256A2 detector card or other detector system. The inventive fluid sampling detector is then removed from the chemical agent detector such as the M256A2 card and the No. 5 M256A2 ampules are broken to complete the colorimetric detection test and the card is run per standard instructions. The presence or absence of a colorimetric change alerts the user as to the presence or absence of a chemical agent within the sample.

Various aspects of the present invention are illustrated by the following non limiting examples. The examples are for illustrative purposes and are not a limitation on any practice of the present invention. It will be understood that variations and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. While the examples are generally directed to water specifically water containing nerve agents or pesticides a person having ordinary skill in the art recognizes that similar techniques and other techniques know in the art readily translate the examples to other fluidic or solid media or other chemical analytes.

Disposable 6 milliliter Discovery DSC 18 SPE tubes purchased from Sigma Aldrich Company St. Louis Mo. are used to concentrate nerve agents from water. All organic solvents are of high purity grade. Water used for the preparation of solutions was distilled and then passed through a Millipore water purification system. The SPE syringe utilized has a polyethylene 20 micrometer frit and is comprised of polypropylene. An SPE bed weight of 1 gram is used comprised of silica gel and octadecyl bonded. Particle size is 50 micrometers with a pore size of 70 Angstroms and a surface area of 480 square meters per gram.

Solid phase extraction columns are prepared by passing 3 milliliters of methanol followed by 3 milliliters of distilled water through the columns. The SPE material is maintained moist at all times prior to the extraction procedure. Fifty milliliters of water spiked with a known amount of nerve agent is placed in a 50 milliliters reservoir. The 50 milliliter sample is drawn into the syringe by retraction of the plunger. The plunger is then pressed the opposite direction to expel the unbound material from the syringe. This binding procedure is repeated 2 times. Approximately 2 milliliters of elution solvent containing 20 methanol 80 methylene chloride v v is drawn through the SPE bed. The SPE column is then attached to an injection port on an adaptor that is fitted into a chemical containment reservoir and associated with a M256A2 chemical agent detector. Eluate is transferred to the chemical agent detector by pressing the plunger on the syringe so as to move eluate from the SPE bed through the sample containment reservoir and onto the M256A2 chemical agent detector. Colorimetric detection positively identifies the presence of tabun sarin soman and VX at concentrations in sample of 

Pesticides diazinon parathion phorate fenchlorphus and chlorpyrifos are prepared in reagent grade methanol at concentrations of 100 ppm. The solutions are then diluted in distilled water to obtain aqueous solutions of 50 10 5 0.5 and 0.05 ppb. Each of the test solutions is bound to a Chigh capacity SPE column as in Example 1. Two milliliters of methanol is used as the elution solution and drawn into the syringe for elution of the pesticide agents from the solid phase extraction media. Elution is performed as in Example 1 and eluted pesticides are detected by gas chromatographic analysis.

Each of the organophosphorus compounds studied is effectively removed from the sample concentrated and eluted into a detection system by an inventive fluid sampling collector. The detection limit of the system is below 0.005 ppb.

Soldiers in the field require hydration from an environmental source of unknown safety. Toxin levels must be at or below 5 g L for nerve 47 g L mustard and 2 mg L CN for the water to be declared safe for consumption. An inventive system is used to analyze the water. An SPE syringe with a polyethylene 20 micrometer polypropylene frit with an SPE bed weight of 1 gram comprised of silica gel and octadecyl bonded is stored in the inventive kit premoistened as per Example 1. Particle size is 50 micrometers with a pore size of 70 Angstroms and a surface area of 480 square meters per gram.

Fifty milliliters of sample water with an unknown amount of nerve agent is drawn into the syringe by retraction of the plunger. The plunger is then pressed the opposite direction to expel the unbound material from the syringe. This binding procedure is repeated 2 times. Approximately 2 milliliters of elution solvent containing 20 methanol 80 methylene chloride v v is drawn through the SPE bed. The SPE column is then attached to an injection port on an adaptor that is fitted into a chemical containment reservoir and associated with a M256A2 chemical agent detector. Eluate is transferred to the chemical agent detector by pressing the plunger on the syringe so as to move eluate from the SPE bed through the sample containment reservoir and onto the M256A2 chemical agent detector. Colorimetric detection positively identifies the absence of nerve mustard or CN toxins in the sample at hazardous levels such that the water is declared safe for consumption at required levels for soldier hydration.

The system of Example 1 used for detection of toxins in water with the Discovery DSC 18 SPE tubes replaced by SUPEL Select HLB SPE columns from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. Colorimetric detection positively identifies the presence of tabun sarin soman and VX at concentrations 

The system example 4 is used for field detection as per Example 3. Colorimetric detection positively identifies the absence of nerve mustard or CN toxins in the sample at hazardous levels such that the water is declared safe for consumption at required levels for soldier hydration.

