---

title: Method and system for creating a concept-object database
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to acquiring information from the worldwide web, organizing information acquired from the worldwide web, and using the acquired and organized information to facilitate web-page searching, web-page browsing, and other worldwide-web-based activities. In one embodiment of the present invention, a database of concept objects is created from an initial set of semantic objects and from hyperlink information obtained from web pages by one or more web crawlers. The initial set of semantic objects is processed using hyperlink based objects created by the web crawler. The processed semantic objects are then associated with additional hyperlink-based objects to create a concept-object database. In certain embodiments of the present invention, the concept-object database can be further refined and supplemented in an automated fashion by additional web crawling, subsequent association of hyperlink-based objects with concept objects, and creation of new concept objects as well as by user input to, and editing of, the concept-object database. The concept-object database may be employed, in various embodiments of the present invention, to facilitate web browsing, web-page searching, and other worldwide-web-base activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060538&OS=08060538&RS=08060538
owner: Vulcan, Inc.
number: 08060538
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
This application is continuation of application Ser. No. 11 489 243 filed Jul. 18 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 707 161.

The present invention is related to the worldwide web and the Internet automated acquisition of semantic level knowledge from electronically stored data electronically interconnected data storage and data display devices and in particular to a method and system for creating a database of concept objects that reflect semantic knowledge gleaned from electronically encoded text documents and hyperlinked text documents.

Development of the Internet during the past 30 years development and widespread adoption of personal computers during the past 25 years and development of the HyperText Markup Language HTML and web browsers during the 1990 s has led to rapid development of the worldwide web. The worldwide web is a distributed repository of information encoded in HTML documents and various types of audio video graphical application specific and other files data and executables referenced from HTML documents. HTML documents are accessed by users from hundreds of thousands of web page servers distributed throughout the world and are rendered for graphical display as web pages by web browsers running on the users computers. Development of the worldwide web has in turn spawned enormous commercial activity through on line stores and trading communities and through development of powerful and enormously commercially successful information acquisition tools such as the Yahoo and Google search engines. Few technical advances have had greater and more immediate social and commercial impact.

The stunning success and rapid adoption of the worldwide web has also also spawned a number of technological problems. Although the worldwide web is now a vast repository of millions of documents related to almost every possible topic the information contained within the millions of HTML documents and media files referenced from the HTML documents is largely unstructured. Current search tools including the Yahoo and Google search engines provide keyword and key symbol searches made possible by vast indexes of compiled word and symbol occurrences within web pages. These indexes are created and continuously supplemented by constant automated access of web pages parsing of the accessed web pages to extract words and symbols contained within the web pages and creation of and addition of data to large electronic databases that index the web pages by word and symbol occurrence. While keyword searches are powerful tools for finding information within the millions of HTML documents that reside within the worldwide web keyword and key symbol searching is typically imprecise. A keyword search often returns hundreds thousands or even greater numbers of undesired HTML documents and at the same time often fails to find large numbers of HTML documents that pertain to subject matter to which the keyword search is directed. Keyword searching may also be difficult to incorporate within other web page browsing activities related to information acquisition from web pages.

These well recognized and increasingly user perceptible deficiencies in keyword searching have led to many different proposals for reorganizing the worldwide web and or accessing information stored within the worldwide web. Certain of the proposals would require massive and fundamental changes to the current structure of and information encoding used in the worldwide web. Others involve sophisticated machine learning and semantic knowledge acquisition tools practical implementations of which are not yet available. However with the number of documents contained within the worldwide web increasing at an exponential rate information organization and information access tools that lead to more immediate improvements in organizing and accessing information stored within the worldwide web are currently needed by worldwide web users web browser developers and developers and vendors of myriad application programs commercial electronic marketplaces and other applications and venues that rely on information stored within the within the worldwide web.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to acquiring information from the worldwide web and other electronic data repositories organizing information acquired from the worldwide web and other electronic data repositories and using the acquired and organized information to facilitate web page searching web page browsing other worldwide web based activities and additional activities directed to searching browsing and analyzing stored electronic data. Embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to associating hyperlinks with concept objects in order to create concept databases.

In one disclosed embodiment of the present invention a database of concept objects is created from an initial set of semantic objects and from hyperlink information obtained from web pages by one or more web crawlers. The initial set of semantic objects is processed using hyperlink based objects created by the web crawler. The processed semantic objects are then associated with additional hyperlink based objects to create a concept object database. In certain embodiments of the present invention the concept object database can be further refined and supplemented in an automated fashion by additional web crawling subsequent association of hyperlink based objects with concept objects and creation of new concept objects both automatically as well as by user input to and editing of the concept object database. The concept object database may be employed in various embodiments of the present invention to facilitate web browsing web page searching and other worldwide web base activities searching browsing and analysis of various types of electronically encoded information and interconnect connectivity and semantic interoperability via a wide variety of communications based applications and devices.

A fundamental structuring of information contained within the worldwide web occurs through hyperlinks that link web pages containing the hyperlinks to other web pages. illustrates a hyperlink. On a rendered web page a hyperlink generally appears as a text caption or anchor text that indicates or describes a web page that can be viewed by controlling a cursor to overlie the text caption and inputting a mouse click or other input to the displayed anchor text of hyperlink . In the HTML document that describes the web page the hyperlink is represented as a text string that includes the URL of the linked HTML document and the anchor text that annotates the displayed hyperlink in the rendered web page . Upon entering a mouse click or other user input to the displayed anchor text of hyperlink the user s web browser is signaled to request the linked HTML document from a remote web page server. When the linked HTML document is received the user s web browser renders and displays the linked HTML document as rendered web page .

The current web page searching approach discussed with reference to along with schemes for directing and ordering searches in part in accordance with lees paid to search engine companies by web page providers has proved enormously commercially successful for search engine companies and has provided an extremely useful tool to allow users of the Internet to find web pages related to topics and concepts of interest to the users. Search engines have revolutionized information access and information processing providing immediate electronic access to vast amounts of textural graphical audio and video information stored within the worldwide web.

As discussed above keyword and key symbol based searching has a number of shortcomings. First keyword and key symbol based searching generally returns tens hundreds thousands or more web pages with reasonably high statistical correlation to input search terms. Keyword and key symbol based searching is therefore relatively imprecise and often requires significant time and effort on the part of users to sift through and find desired web pages from massive returned search results. As users become more sophisticated they learn techniques for relining and as precisely as possible specifying precisely as possible specifying desired web pages in terms of key words and key symbols. However keyword and key symbol based searching is inherently limited by the inability to precisely define and characterize a topic or concept using a relatively small number of words and symbols.

A more serious problem encountered by search engine users is that natural language and in particular the English language is quite redundant with many different words and phrases that describe the same topic or concept. For this reason any particular keyword and key symbol based search may omit a number of related and synonymous terms and symbols and a search based on the key word and key symbols may therefore often find only a subset of the total number of related and desired web pages. To effectively search the worldwide web the user often needs to conduct many repeated keyword and key symbol based searches varying terms symbols and combinations of terms and symbols in order to find an acceptable subset of the set of web pages related to a particular topic or concept. Many additional problems are associated with keyword and key symbol based searching. While natural language is both redundant and ambiguous leading to under inclusive and over inclusive search results natural language is also a poor vehicle for capturing many complex concepts and interrelationships. It is often the case that a very large and cumbersome list of key words and key symbols may be needed to adequately describe a concept but as the length of the key word and key symbol list increases the likelihood of finding web pages that include a significant portion of the key words and key symbols correspondingly decreases.

One way to view all of the above discussed problems with keyword and key symbol based searching as well as many additional problems with web browsing and information retrieval from the worldwide web is that current search engines lack semantic understanding and semantic knowledge of the information contained within the worldwide web. While they are effective at using discrete words and symbols and statistical relationships between discrete words and symbols to find candidate web pages based on a list of key words and key symbols viewed as discrete entities search engines do not index by the semantics of formatted natural language text and they do not correlate their collection of words and symbols with a semantic representation of a topic concept or user request. This representation of a topic concept or user request. This underlying deficiency of current search engines has been recognized and has stimulated a great deal of research on and proposals for new types of searching and new organizations and information encodings for enhanced worldwide webs. Certain proposals are directed to tools for aggregating and processing unstructured worldwide web based information in order to more effectively use and search the unstructured information. Certain proposals are directed to more structured organizations of the worldwide web that would allow for more directed searches. These proposals include proposals for self describing more autonomous data objects that include extensive metadata to facilitate identifying relationships between data objects and automatic processing of the informational content of data objects. Still other proposals involved sophisticated natural language processing and automated acquisition of semantic knowledge and semantic understanding of information encoded within the worldwide web.

Although many of the proposed enhancements and modifications of the worldwide web and of searching techniques for finding web pages related to particular topics and concepts have great merit and may eventually lead to much better information organization and much more precisely directed searches for information contained within the worldwide web there is a pressing need for immediate and practically implementable solutions to the various above described problems. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods and systems for constructing databases of concept objects that can be used to facilitate various aspects of web browsing web page searching and other worldwide web based activities that can lead to more effective automated information acquisition and access based on the current largely unstructured worldwide web.

A list of semantic objects as shown in represents a starting point for various method embodiments of the present invention. Each semantic object such as semantic object can be thought of as a data object or data record that includes two fields 1 a URL and 2 a list of emergent terms and phrases or tags . In many embodiments additional fields may be present in the semantic object some of which may object some of which may not at early stages have values or may have default values that are changed during the processes described below. The URL is referred to as a primary link. Each semantic object therefore is associated with a web page that may be referenced via the primary link and that is associated with and described by the emergent terms and phrases or tags. For example the home page of a corporate web site such as http www.acme.com may be described by a semantic object that includes the URL of the home page of the corporate web site and emergent terms such as the phrase Acme Corporation. In alternative embodiments semantic objects may include additional fields as well as a type field or type indicator so that a list of semantic objects may include various sub categories or sub classifications of semantic objects and web pages represented by the semantic objects. For example there may be corporate web page semantic objects corresponding to corporations person semantic objects that describe particular people research article semantic objects that describe research articles and any number of different types of semantic objects associated with different types of entities described by web pages. In many embodiments of the present invention the acquisition of an initial list of semantic objects represents a first step in creation of a concept object database.

First level objects are nascent concept objects that are identified as being significantly well referenced by web pages within the worldwide web and that have been well described by a title comprising terms and symbols obtained by statistical analysis of anchor text within the associated filtered and processed hyperlink object context of the first hyperlink object context of the first level object. In the case that is decided to retain the currently considered semantic object the currently considered semantic object is promoted to a first level object and the first level object is then additionally processed in the context of the associated filtered and processed hyperlinks. illustrates the processing of a first level object according to certain embodiments of the present invention. Anchor text contained in the associated filtered and processed hyperlinks is statistically analyzed in order to determine a dominant or prominent set of terms and symbols referred to as emergent terms. The processing steps are thus mainly directed to associating a hyperlink based object with emergent terms most descriptive of the first level object and updating the first level object to associate the first level object with the emergent terms. When the iterative filtering and processing of semantic objects within the context of associated filtered and processed hyperlink based objects is complete a database of first level objects is obtained. These first level objects are nascent concept objects that are identified as being significantly well referenced by web pages within the worldwide web and that have been well described by a title comprising terms and symbols obtained by statistical analysis of anchor text within the associated filtered and processed hyperlink object context of the first level object.

Next a second iterative procedure can be carried out in which each first level object is again considered in the second iterative process within the context of related filtered and processed hyperlink based objects. Related filtered and processed hyperlink based objects include not only filtered and processed hyperlink based objects that directly reference the considered first level object but in addition those filtered and processed hyperlink based objects with anchor text related to the emergent terms by which the considered first level object is tagged. illustrates a next considered first level object in a second iterative processing step considered within the context of related filtered and processed hyperlink based objects. As shown in the currently considered first level object is related to a set of filtered and processed hyperlink based objects that directly reference the currently considered first level object and is also related to a second set of filtered and processed hyperlink based objects with with normalized anchor text related to the emergent terms by which the currently considered first level object is tagged. A determination of the relatedness of normalized anchor text to a first level object s emergent terms may be made by matching and terms and symbols in the anchor text with the terms and symbols by which the first level object is tagged. Additional considerations related to statistical orderings and rankings of terms and symbols may be made.

Having established for each currently considered first level object the filtered and processed hyperlink object context as shown in the currently considered first level object may be then additionally processed and promoted to a concept object. Additional processing may involve refining the first level object s emergent terms using normalized anchor text in the expanded context of filtered and processed hyperlink based objects. In certain embodiments the context may be additionally expanded to include the web pages from which the filtered and processed hyperlink based objects were extracted in order to add additional information to the first level objects. For example when first level objects are classified by type the values for additional type specific fields may be determined at this stage of the process. As one example if the first level object represents a literary work the first level object may include additional fields for author publisher and publication date. The values for these fields may be obtained from the web pages from which the filtered and processed hyperlink based objects associated with the first level object were extracted and or from the web page referenced by the primary link contained in the first level object or from other sources.

Next a decision is made for each filtered and processed hyperlink based object within the expanded context of the first level object as to whether the filtered and processed hyperlink based object should be associated with the first level object by a secondary link. This decision may be based on a large variety of different considerations and on various types of accumulated data. For example the decision to create a secondary link between the first level object and a filtered and processed hyperlink based object may in part be based on the uniqueness of any proper names in the anchor text of the hyperlink based object that match proper names in the emergent terms associated with the concept object. Statistical rankings and orderings of common anchor text and object associated of common anchor text and object associated terms and symbols may additionally be employed to judge the relatedness and the value of the hyperlink to the first level object. In more elaborate embodiments web pages from which the hyperlink based objects are extracted may be accessed and analyzed to further characterize the relatedness and value of the hyper link based object to the first level object. Finally the first level object is promoted to a concept object and stored in the concept object database along with secondary links to related hyperlink based objects deemed to be of sufficient relatedness in value to be associated with the concept object in a concept object database.

Details of the exact schemas and database systems and models for storing semantic objects hyperlink based objects and concept objects are not provided in the current discussion for a number of reasons. First databases and database schemas for storing relatively simple multi field data records or data objects are extremely well known. Relational databases for example are well known to be suitable for storing and query based retrieval of simple data objects. Secondly there are an essentially limitless number of different schemas and models that can be devised for storing semantic objects hyperlink based objects and concept objects. For example a concept object database may include relational tables for concept objects hyperlink based objects and secondary links. Alternatively a concept object database may be based on an object oriented database in which stored concept objects reference stored hyperlink based objects. Whatever the database model and schema used it is assumed that a selection of efficient searching tools are provided by the database that allow for efficiently and precisely finding particular concept objects and hyperlink based objects related to concept objects through secondary hyperlink based objects related to concept objects through secondary links. In the above described concept object database creation method a set of semantic objects is transformed into a set of first level objects in turn transformed into a database containing concept objects. Semantic objects may be stored separately from first level objects and first level objects maybe stored separately from concept objects. Alternatively all three types of objects may share a common representation and be stored in a single object database and the process of concept object database creation may comprise augmenting and refining the contents of the objects and filtering the set of objects to remove undesirable objects from the object database. Filtered and processed hyperlink based objects may be stored separately from or together with semantic objects first level objects and or concept objects. Rather than storing objects in a database the objects may be stored in indexed flat files or using other well know techniques for storing data for subsequent access.

The initial concept object database may be further refined and supplemented at subsequent points in time or may be continuously refined and supplemented. indicates one type of concept object database enhancement carried out in certain embodiments of the present invention. As shown in tertiary links that link concept objects and hyperlink based objects to other hyperlink based objects may be obtained from web pages associated with the concept objects and hyperlink based objects and analysis of the tertiary links may lead to a decision to promote a particular hyperlink based object to a first level object and perhaps to a concept object . This may provide for addition of concept objects over time to the concept object database. Alternatively various sources of semantic objects may be monitored in order to create on an ongoing basis additional semantic object databases that can be merged using a process such as that discussed above with reference to with the original concept object database. As filtered and processed hyperlink based objects are discovered and added to subsequent filtered and processed hyperlink object databases these subsequent hyperlink object databases may be used to further refine concept objects in the concept object database by refining the emergent terms associated with the concept object and additional fields of the concept object by adding additional fields to the concept object and by adding additional to the concept object and by adding additional secondary links to subsequently discovered filtered and processed hyperlink based objects. Over time meta level objects that each represents a subset of the concept object stored in the concept object database may be created and stored in a meta level object database or relational table to provide additional indexes into the concept object database. In alternative embodiments users of a concept object database or of web browsers or search engines that use one or more concept object database may be provided tools to edit add and delete concept objects directly or indirectly by providing information that is processed and used to edit add and delete concept objects by an automated process.

Next a simple Java like pseudocode implementation of a concept object database creation process is provided. The function bindLinksToObjects within the class Binder provided below carries out a process of binding semantic objects to secondary links using data structures and filtering and processing steps similar to those discussed above with reference to .

On lines 29 30 of the above discussed routine bindObjectToLinks text identifiers for creation of a list of emergent terms for a semantic object are obtained from the filtered and processed hyperlink based objects that directly reference the semantic object. This is accomplished by the routine generateIdentifiers provided below which in turn relies on the crawler routine getAnchorText provided as part of the crawler interface to access and filer hyperlink based objects that directly reference the semantic object and to filter anchor text obtained from the filtered hyperlink based objects 

On lines 33 35 of the above described routine bindObjectsToLinks secondary links are identified and extracted from a set of filtered and processed hyperlink based objects related to a currently considered semantic object via the routine getMatchingAnchorTextLinks. An implementation of the routine getMatchingAnchorTextLinks called on lines 33 35 is next provided 

A concept object database provides a foundation for enhancing web browsing and web page searching methods and systems to provide semantics directed browsing and searching rather than keyword and key symbol based browsing and searching. illustrates an enhanced web browser with a semantic sidebar according to an embodiment of the present invention. When a user requests and renders a web page using the enhanced browser the enhanced browser displays a display version of the concept object and may also display additional links and to web pages described by concept objects related by secondary links to the displayed web page . Thus a user is automatically provided navigational tools by displaying any particular web page to related web pages described by concept objects within the concept object database.

Presumably the concept objects allow a user to find web pages and information that is semantically related to the displayed web page. shows the enhanced web browser of with additional annotation and with enhancements to displayed links referencing web pages represented by concept objects according to an embodiment of the present invention. The More info and Tags input features allow a user to navigate to additional web sites providing compiled information about the concept or topic related to the displayed concept object link to a corporation website.

As discussed above a concept object database may be refined and supplemented over time by a community of users. illustrate concept object database refinement and augmentation according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in an EDIT feature allows a user to invoke an editing dialog for editing and adding supplemental information to the concept object that represents the web concept object that represents the web page referenced by the displayed link . User input to the EDIT feature invokes the input menus shown in that allow a user to alter annotation or fields associated with the concept object and to add new semantic objects related to the edited concept object.

A concept object database facilitates a wide variety of additional searching and browsing methods and techniques. For example the concept object database can itself be used as an index into the worldwide web to supplement or eventually replace keyword and key symbol indexes used in current web page searching methods discussed above with reference to . The concept object database may be used in tandem with keyword and key symbol based searching techniques to reorder or winnow large result sets based on semantic relationships stored within the concept object database in the form of concept objects filtered and processed hyperlinks and secondary links. Many other possible search engine and web browser enhancements will undoubtedly be revealed when concept object databases and application programming interfaces to concept object databases become available.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example an almost limitless number of different implementations of the above described concept object database creation method and systems which implement the method are possible using different programming languages modular organizations data structures control structures and by varying other such programming and development parameters. As discussed above concept objects filtered and processed hyperlink based objects and secondary links may be encoded and stored in a wide variety of different types of database primitives within many different types of database systems including flat file systems. As discussed above concept objects may include in addition to the primary link and tags or emergent terms any number of additional data fields and references to other data objects values for which are supplied during analysis of the filtered and processed hyperlink object context of the concept objects and analysis of the concept object database in its entirety. As discussed above the concept object database may be employed in a wide variety of web page searching techniques and systems web browsers and other worldwide web related applications and methods.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purpose of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

