---

title: Rotating head rests
abstract: A head rest for a seat assembly includes a rotation mechanism that allows the head rest to rotate with respect to the seat assembly. The rotation mechanism may allow the head rest to incline when in a raised position to provide clearance for an occupant seated in the seat assembly. The rotation mechanism also may allow the head rest to rotate outward from the seat assembly when in a lowered position to displace the occupant with respect to the seat assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08939513&OS=08939513&RS=08939513
owner: Johnson Controls Technology Company
number: 08939513
owner_city: Holland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100512
---
This application claims priority from and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 177 808 entitled ROTATING HEAD RESTS filed May 13 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to rotating head rests and more particularly to rotating head rests that may be employed in vehicle seating assemblies.

Vehicles often include head rests as part of seating assemblies to provide support for an occupant s head. Safety regulations also may mandate a head rest for each seat in a vehicle. When a seat is not used by an occupant the head rest may be lowered to provide additional storage space or to expand the driver s view. However the head rest may then need to be raised when the seat is again used by an occupant. Further after a head rest has been raised from a lowered position the head rest may not be inclined at a comfortable position for the user.

In a first embodiment a vehicle seat assembly includes a seat back that has a contact surface configured to support an occupant a head rest that has an internal frame and a rod coupling the head rest to the seat back and configured to elevate the head rest from the seat back to a raised position and to lower the head rest towards the seat back to a lowered position. The vehicle seat assembly also includes a rotation mechanism coupled to the internal frame disposed around a portion of the rod and configured to rotate the head rest with respect to the rod. The rotation mechanism is configured to rotate the head rest away from the rod to an extended position towards an occupant space when the head rest is in the lowered position and to rotate the head rest towards the rod away from the occupant space when the head rest is in the raised position.

In another embodiment a head rest assembly includes a frame a trim piece disposed about the frame and having a front surface designed to support an occupant s head and a rod that has a rotation portion and at least one connection portion configured to fit within a seat back to move the head rest assembly between a raised position where the head rest is elevated above the seat back and a lowered position where the front surface projects from an occupant contact surface of the seat back. The head rest assembly also includes a rotation mechanism coupled to the frame and disposed around the rotation portion to rotate the head rest with respect to the rod between an extended position and an inclined position when the head rest is in the raised position and to place the head rest in the extended position when the head rest is in the lowered position.

In a further embodiment a head rest assembly includes a frame comprising a plate that limits rotation of the head rest assembly and a wire portion generally defining a shape of the head rest assembly a trim piece disposed about the frame and having a front surface designed to support an occupant s head and a rod having a rotation portion extending between two upright portions configured to fit within a seat back to move the head rest assembly between a raised position where the head rest is elevated above the seat back and a lowered position where the front surface projects from an occupant contact surface of the seat back. The head rest assembly also includes a spring clip coupled to the plate. The spring clip includes a bushing portion disposed around the rotation portion of the rod to rotate the head rest with respect to the rod. The spring clip is configured to rotate the head rest with respect to the rod between an extended position and an inclined position when the head rest is in the raised position and to place the head rest in the extended position when the head rest is in the lowered position.

The present disclosure is directed to head rests that may be employed in vehicle seat assemblies. The head rests can rotate with respect to seat backs of the seat assemblies and can be raised and lowered with respect to the seat backs. In the lowered position the top of the head rest is located generally even with the top of the seat back which in turn may increase a driver s field of vision when the seat is not occupied. In the raised position the head rest is positioned above the seat back to provide support for the head and neck of an occupant who may be seated in the seat.

According to certain embodiments a head rest may be mounted on a rod that can be raised from and lowered into a seat back to move the head rest between the raised position and the lowered position. The head rest also may include a frame that provides structural support for the head rest and attaches the head rest to the moveable rod. In the lowered position the head rest can be rotated away from the rod and the seat back so that the head rest projects from the seat back to displace an occupant from the seat thereby prompting an occupant to raise the head rest. In the raised positioned the head rest can be rotated back towards the rod and the seat back to allow clearance for an occupant s back neck and or shoulders.

Head rest also includes a contact surface designed to support an occupant s head when head rest is in the raised position. In the lowered position contact surface projects from a contact surface of seat back which may displace an occupant from vehicle seat assembly as described further with respect to . Contact surface may be designed to support an occupant s back and shoulders when an occupant is seated within vehicle seat assembly .

Vehicle seat assembly also may include a seat base and a recliner mechanism that reclines seat back with respect to seat base . A seat belt mechanism also may be included within vehicle seat assembly to secure an occupant within vehicle seat assembly . In certain embodiments vehicle seat assembly may include a lower frame that may be attached to the floor of a motor vehicle.

When head rest is located in raised position occupant may sit within vehicle seat assembly in a reclined position where the occupant s back may rest against contact surface of seat back . The position of occupant in the reclined position may be generally represented by a torso line that extends between an occupant s pivot point and a transition point between an occupant s neck and shoulders. Head rest may be designed so that when head rest is in raised position the top of head rest extends at least a minimum distance above pivot point along torso line . According to certain embodiments head rest may extend at least 750 mm above pivot point along torso line . More specifically head rest may be designed to extend approximately 765 to 800 mm above pivot point along torso line . As described further below with respect to when head rest is in the raised position head rest can be rotated between an extended position and an inclined position shown generally by the dashed lines to provide additional clearance between head rest and an occupant s back and or shoulders.

When head rest is in lowered position head rest projects outward from seat back to place occupant in a displaced position generally indicated by the dashed lines. According to certain embodiments head rest may contact the back and or shoulders of occupant to incline occupant forward with respect to seat back . The position of occupant in the displaced position may be generally represented by a torso line that extends between the occupant s pivot point and the transition point between the occupant s neck and shoulders. The amount of displacement of occupant with respect to the reclined position may be measured by a displacement angle that represents the angular change between the torso lines and with respect to pivot point . According to certain embodiments the displacement angle may be approximately 10 to 15 degrees nominal and all subranges therebetween when head rest is in lowered position . More specifically the displacement angle may be approximately 12 degrees nominal when head rest is in lowered position . In certain embodiments displacement of occupant when head rest is in the lowered position may ensure compliance with manufacturer and or government specifications such as U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Specification 202A FMVSS 202A .

The displacement angle also may generally correspond to an angle between contact surface of seat back and the forward most surface of head rest . According to certain embodiments angle may be approximately 10 to 15 degrees and all subranges therebetween. More specifically angle may be approximately 12 degrees.

The displaced position also may produce a torso angle in occupant when occupant is seated in displaced position . The amount of torso incline in occupant may be generally represented by a torso line that extends between the occupant s pivot point and a transition point between the occupant s neck and chest. The amount of torso incline may be measured by torso angle which represents the angular change between torso line and torso line with respect to pivot point . According to certain embodiments torso angle may be approximately 19 degrees. As shown the locations of pivot point and torso lines and and the values of angles and may be representative of the locations and values that would be produced by a person of average size. However in other embodiments the locations of pivot point and torso lines and and the values of angles and may vary depending on the size and or shape of occupant .

The displacement of occupant may be intended to prompt occupant to raise head rest from lowered position to raised position when occupant is seated within vehicle seat assembly . When head rest is located in raised position head rest may generally align with the occupant s head which may provide support for the occupant s head. When head rest is located in raised position occupant can move towards the seat back to a reclined position where the occupant s back may rest against seat assembly . However head rest may contact the upper shoulders of the occupant to incline the occupant slightly from the torso line.

The rotation of head rest may be designed to provide additional clearance for an occupant s neck shoulders and or head. For example when head rest is located in extended position a relatively small clearance distance exists between head rest and an occupant s back and or shoulders. According to certain embodiments clearance distance may be approximately 9.3 mm. To provide additional clearance between head rest and occupant head rest can be rotated from extended position to inclined position . For example occupant may move head rest manually towards rod to place head rest in inclined position . In certain embodiments the occupant s head may be used to exert pressure on head rest to incline the head rest. Inclined position may provide a relatively larger clearance distance between head rest and an occupant s back and or shoulders. According to certain embodiments clearance distance may be approximately 33.1 mm.

From inclined position head rest can be rotated out to extended position to lower head rest from raised position to lowered position . For example occupant may move head rest manually out from rod to extend head rest to extended position . Occupant may then release a locking mechanism that retains head rest in raised position . For example occupant may actuate a release mechanism such as a push button lever or the like to allow head rest to move from raised position to lowered position . In other embodiments head rest may be automatically moved to extended position upon actuation of the locking mechanism and manual rotation of head rest may not be needed. For example a lower portion of head rest may contact seat back which may extend head rest to extended position thereby allowing head rest to lower over seat back .

Frame includes a plate that facilitates rotation of head rest and provides internal support. Covers and also may be disposed around frame to further enhance rotation and or to provide internal support. Cover may be an optional component that may be omitted in certain embodiments. Head rest is attached to vehicle seat assembly by rod . For example rod may extend through openings in plate and may be enclosed by covers and . Trim piece may enclose a portion of rod as well as plate and covers and . According to certain embodiments frame and rod may be constructed of steel. However in other embodiments frame and rod may be constructed of plastic metal or other suitable material.

As shown in frame is enclosed by trim piece with a portion of studs extending from trim piece . Specifically plate is disposed within a top portion of trim piece while wire portion extends within a lower portion of the trim piece . As described below with respect to studs may be employed to secure plate to rod .

Spring clip is attached to plate to allow head rest to rotate with respect to rod . For example spring clip may be placed around rod so that the bushing portion of spring clip encircles the rotation portion of rod . Studs of plate may then be inserted through openings of spring clip to attach spring clip to rod and plate . When assembled plate may be located above rod and spring clip .

Studs also may be used to secure cover below rod and spring clip . Rod may include two connection portions that may be inserted into seat back as shown in . According to certain embodiments connection portions may be generally straight upright and parallel lengths of rod that are connected by rotation portion . Connection portions can be inserted through openings of cover to dispose rotation portion of rod in between plate and cover . Studs can then be inserted through openings of cover to secure cover to plate . When assembled studs can extend through openings of spring clip through openings of spacer and through openings of cover to rotatably secure plate to rod . The ends of studs may be spot welded or otherwise affixed by fasteners such as nuts to assemble rod plate spring clip and cover .

Cover also may include projections that extend upwards from cover to interface with corresponding projections on plate . Projections and may separate cover from plate and may provide internal support for head rest . Projections and each may include openings and respectively that can be aligned with one another. Fasteners such as pan head screws can be inserted through openings and to secure plate to cover .

Plate wire cover spring clip and rotation portion of rod may be enclosed within trim piece . Further in certain embodiments an optional cover may be placed on top of plate and enclosed within trim piece . For example cover may snap onto portions of frame to attach cover to plate . Connection portions of rod may project from trim piece and may be inserted into seat back as shown in to allow head rest to be raised and lowered with respect to seat back .

Rod and spring clip may have a surface coating designed to facilitate rotation of spring clip around rod . For example rod and spring clip may be coated with a film lubricant coating such as Moly Coat commercially available from Continental Research Corporation of St. Louis Mo. However in other embodiments the surface finishes of rod and spring clip may vary. Further to facilitate rotation spring clip and rod may be designed to have relatively straight and or smooth sides. Lubrication also may be applied at an interface between rod and spring clip to facilitate rotation and to impede or prevent noise. According to certain embodiments a synthetic grease such as Rheogel TEK639 commercially available from Engineered Custom Lubricants of Plymouth Mich. may be used as lubrication. However in other embodiments any suitable lubricant may be employed.

Studs of plate extend through spring clip and spacer and are secured by nuts . According to certain embodiments nuts may be spot welded or otherwise affixed to studs . Further nuts may be designed to withstand a certain amount of torque. For example in certain embodiments nuts may be designed to withstand approximately 5 to 7 Newton meters and all subranges therebetween. Studs also may be designed to withstand a certain amount of torque. For example in certain embodiments studs may be designed to withstand approximately 4 to 6 Newton meters and all subranges therebetween.

When head rest is initially moved from lowered position to raised position head rest is located in extended position as shown in . However as noted above with respect to extended position may not provide sufficient clearance for an occupant s head and or shoulders to allow an occupant to sit within seat assembly comfortably. Accordingly head rest can be rotated towards rod to inclined position as shown in .

While only certain features and embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described many modifications and changes may occur to those skilled in the art e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements mounting arrangements use of materials orientations etc. without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the subject matter recited in the claims. For example in other embodiments the geometry of spring clip rod bushing and or frames and may vary. Further in certain embodiments additional components such as fasteners brackets and the like may be included. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention. Furthermore in an effort to provide a concise description of the exemplary embodiments all features of an actual implementation may not have been described i.e. those unrelated to the presently contemplated best mode of carrying out the invention or those unrelated to enabling the claimed invention . It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions may be made. Such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure without undue experimentation.

