---

title: Emissions control systems and methods
abstract: Methods and systems are provided related to an emissions control system. The emissions control system has an exhaust after-treatment system defining a plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages through which at least a portion of an exhaust stream can flow, e.g., the exhaust stream is produced by an engine. The emissions control system also includes a controller for controlling injection of reductant into the exhaust stream flowing through each of the flow passages. In one example, the emissions control system is configured for use in a vehicle, such as a locomotive or other rail vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09494083&OS=09494083&RS=09494083
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09494083
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101221
---
This application is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT US10 61681 filed Dec. 21 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 288 841 filed Dec. 21 2009.

This invention was funded by Contract No. SDTC 2007 A 1207R GOVT. The United States Government has certain rights to this invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to vehicle emissions control systems and methods of operating emissions control systems.

Internal combustion engines generate various combustion by products in the exhaust gas during the course of engine operation. Under some conditions it may be desirable to control the production amount rate etc. of one or more selected exhaust components. For example under some conditions to meet stringent emissions criteria it may be desirable to control the production of NOx species and or particulate matter PM in the exhaust gas.

Various engine configurations fuel types additives and exhaust after treatment systems have been developed. As such it may be desirable to provide additional improvements in controlling the emission of exhaust components. Furthermore it may be desirable to design an emissions control system so that it can be installed in various vehicle systems without losing emissions performance.

In one embodiment an emissions control system includes an exhaust after treatment system defining a plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages through which at least a portion of an exhaust stream can flow e.g. the exhaust stream is produced by a vehicle engine or other engine. The emissions control system further includes a control module that is configured to control the exhaust after treatment system for injecting an amount of reductant into the exhaust stream flowing through each of the exhaust flow passages. By dividing the exhaust flow into a plurality of exhaust flow passages and by adjusting the configuration of the emissions control system so that the plurality of exhaust flow passages can be mounted on the engine and better accommodated in various vehicle systems the design of the exhaust after treatment system can be improved without degrading the emissions performance of the vehicle system.

The methods and systems described herein relate to emissions control systems including an exhaust after treatment system. In some embodiments the invention relates to an emissions control system that may be configured for an engine in a vehicle. In other embodiments the invention relates to methods of operating such an emissions control system. In still other embodiments the invention relates to vehicles having the described emissions control system. With regard to the vehicle any mobile asset capable of producing an exhaust stream may utilize one or more aspects of the described invention. As a non limiting example a rail embodiment is disclosed herein. That is the vehicle emissions control system is described in the context of a locomotive or other rail vehicle to facilitate the illustration of several aspects of the invention. It will be appreciated that in alternate embodiments for example where the vehicle is a railcar aircraft automobile or marine vessel several of the constraints that may apply to a locomotive may not be applicable. However the locomotive environment is sufficiently challenging such that many of the inventive aspects of the described emissions control system can be showcased.

The designs of the emissions control system shown herein attempt to balance and optimize multiple factors. As such emphasis is given to those designs that may be incorporated in vehicle embodiments with the least impact. For example in rail embodiments emphasis is given to designs that have reduced impact on locomotive performance operating costs and maintenance costs.

In an embodiment in each of the plurality of exhaust flow passages the exhaust after treatment system includes a selective catalytic reduction SCR system for reducing NOx species generated in the engine exhaust stream and a particulate matter PM reduction system for reducing an amount of particulate matter generated in the engine exhaust stream. The various exhaust after treatment components included in PM reduction system include a diesel oxidation catalyst DOC a diesel particulate filter DPF and an optional burner or heater . The various exhaust after treatment components included in the SCR system include an SCR catalyst an ammonia slip catalyst ASC and or a reductant component such as a structure or region for injecting evaporating mixing and or hydrolyzing an appropriate reductant used with the SCR catalyst e.g. urea hydrolysis. The reductant component may receive the reductant from a reductant storage tank e.g. urea tank and urea or other reductant injection system .

Returning to the PM reduction system the diesel particulate filter DPF is configured to filter and remove particulate matter PM from the engine exhaust stream. Based on the PM load of the filter the DPF is periodically regenerated for example by burning off the stored PM to restore the filter s PM storage capacity. In some embodiments the DPF may be optionally coupled to a regeneration device to assist in the periodic regeneration. For example where the DPF is a wall flow type filter and or a ceramics based filter an appropriate regeneration device such as the burner or heater may be coupled to the particulate filter. Herein burner or heater may be configured to increase the temperature of the exhaust directed through DPF for example to a PM burn out temperature. In another example where the DPF is a flow through filter and or a metallics based filter an additional regeneration device may not be required. Example embodiments of a PM reduction system configured with and without an associated burner or heater are discussed herein with reference to . A PM load of the DPF may be inferred based on engine operating conditions such as an air to fuel ratio of the exhaust gas duration of engine operation etc. Alternatively the PM load of DPF may be estimated based on a pressure difference across the particulate matter filter as sensed by one or more pressure sensors coupled to the filter. Based on the estimated PM load a control module may determine a regeneration timing and duration.

Diesel oxidation catalyst DOC is coupled upstream of the DPF in the direction of exhaust flow as indicated by an arrow labeled Exhaust flow . DOC catalytically reduces the amount of particulate matter in the exhaust gas that is directed into the DPF . Specifically by using one or more catalysts such as palladium and platinum exhaust PM is oxidized into carbon dioxide at DOC . As such the DOC may also oxidize other hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide present in the engine exhaust into carbon dioxide and water. By positioning DOC upstream of DPF the PM load experienced by DPF can be reduced thereby reducing the frequency of filter regeneration.

SCR system coupled downstream of the DPF portion of the PM reduction system is configured to reduce exhaust NOx species. Specifically exhaust NOx species are catalytically reduced by SCR catalyst into nitrogen and water. The SCR system includes a reductant injector for injecting an amount of an appropriate SCR reductant e.g. urea from a common reductant storage tank e.g. a urea tank into an injection site in a given exhaust flow passage upstream of SCR catalyst . By coupling the SCR catalyst downstream of injection site the injected reductant may be appropriately mixed and hydrolyzed in structure or region before being absorbed on SCR catalyst . In rail and other diesel embodiments the SCR reductant may be or include urea. For example the reductant may be a diesel exhaust fluid DEF which is a solution of water and urea. However in alternate embodiments the reductant may be for example ammonia.

The reductant e.g. urea is stored in a common reductant storage tank e.g. a urea storage tank and delivered into the exhaust flow of each of the plurality of passages of the exhaust after treatment system via urea or other reductant injection system . The injection system as elaborated below may include various delivery and return lines pumps filters and reductant injectors. Before use as a reductant urea is hydrolyzed into ammonia and carbon dioxide in urea mixing and hydrolysis structure or region . The ammonia absorbed on SCR catalyst is used to reduce exhaust NOx species. Any excess ammonia that slips from SCR catalyst is absorbed and broken down by ammonia slip catalyst thereby reducing the ammonia content of exhaust emissions. Example embodiments of a reductant storage tank and injection system that can be used with the exhaust after treatment system of are described herein with reference to .

A control module such as engine control unit ECU may receive sensor and communication signals from various sensors such as thermocouples pressure transducers reductant e.g. urea level sensors one or more NOx sensors temperature sensors etc. positioned at various locations along the exhaust after treatment system. Based on the received sensor signals the ECU may operate one or more actuators to adjust exhaust after treatment system components. For example the ECU may receive input from one or more temperature sensors regarding an exhaust gas temperature EGT at one or more locations in the emissions control system such as upstream of heater upstream and downstream of DPF and or upstream and downstream of SCR system . In one example the exhaust gas temperature may be used to determine when and for how long heater or burner should be operated. In another example the ECU may receive an input regarding a pressure difference AP across diesel particulate filter and may infer a PM load of the filter based on the estimated pressure difference. The control module may use the inferred PM load to determine when to initiate a filter regeneration operation. In yet another example the ECU may receive an input such as a signal from a NOx sensor regarding a NOx level in the exhaust gas upstream of the SCR system . Based on the indicated NOx level e.g. as provided by the NOx sensor the control module may adjust an amount of reductant e.g. urea injection. In still another example the control module may determine a duration of engine operation to periodically schedule a cleaning of the emissions control system. In one example where the engine is in a locomotive the locomotive may be periodically cleaned using hydrochloric acid HCl from HCl based cleaning system .

In another example where the exhaust after treatment system includes a plurality of exhaust flow passages the control module may be configured with code for dividing an exhaust stream from an engine into a plurality of sub streams injecting a respective amount of reductant into each of the plurality of sub streams that is each sub stream is injected with its own amount of reductant and chemically altering a determined chemical component of the exhaust stream in response to the injected reductant wherein at least one of the plurality of sub streams is routed in a direction different from e.g. opposite from a routing direction of one other of the plurality of sub streams.

The exhaust after treatment system may similarly receive signals from a switch box and controller area network CAN communications from the ECU . The exhaust after treatment system may also communicate back to the ECU and send response signals. In one example a response signal may include a malfunction indication lamp MIL signal communicated to a switch box or indicator box. In another example the controls may include controlling the SCR system for example by controlling circulation drainage injection and or heating of urea or other reductant. Similarly the PM reduction system may be controlled for example by controlling diesel fuel circulation drainage injection active regeneration of the particulate filter if so implemented.

In one embodiment the exhaust after treatment system may include one or more control modules e.g. controllers or sub controllers modules communicating with ECU for managing the various exhaust after treatment components of the after treatment system. For example there may be a first control module configured to control the PM reduction system while another control module may be configured to control the SCR system. In another example such as where the exhaust after treatment system is configured with a plurality of legs each leg with its own set of SCR system components the exhaust after treatment system may include a single DPF control module and multiple SCR control modules for example three SCR control modules in a multi leg after treatment system configured with three legs one SCR control module for each leg of the multi leg system . However such a multiple control module system herein four control module system may be relatively cumbersome to manage. Thus in an alternate embodiment a single control module configured with a larger number of input and output channels I O channels can be used for both DPF and SCR applications. In such embodiments the control module count may be substantially reduced for example to three or fewer control modules.

In another example the exhaust after treatment system may be coupled to at least an after treatment control unit ACU dedicated to controlling and managing operation of the after treatment system while a fluid control unit FCU is dedicated to controlling and managing the reductant e.g. DEF . Herein the after treatment control unit ACU may include various sensors and actuators for controlling the exhaust after treatment system. The various sensors may include for example one or more temperature sensors to measure the exhaust temperature throughout the after treatment system one or more NOx sensors placed at the exit of the after treatment system and one or more pressure sensors to measure a pressure drop across components of the PM reduction system such as the DOC and or DPF and across components of the SCR system such as the SCR catalyst and or the ASC . In one example the ACU may also include a reductant injector control module to regulate injection timing amount pressure flow rate duty cycle etc. of urea or other reductant into the SCR system.

The ACU may be configured to receive messages from the ECU and may be capable of relaying a message back to the ECU as needed. In one example the ACU may be self contained such that if a fault is detected the control module can respond with an appropriate action without requiring an input from the operator. In addition the ACU may communicate with a switch box that is located in the operator cab to allow manual shutdown of the system if desired. The switch box may control power to the ACU injectors and pumps. In one example while the system is designed to be self contained the manual shutdown feature enables the operator to manually override and shutdown the system if needed.

In an embodiment the fluid control unit FCU system controls fluid delivery to the exhaust after treatment system. The FCU system may include for example one or more pumps to deliver the reductant e.g. urea to the injectors and to circulate excess reductant back into the tank. Further the FCU system may include one or more sensors to measure the level of reductant in the tank as well as the temperature of reductant in the tank. In one example based on the temperature of the reductant in the tank one or more heaters may be operated to maintain the reductant at an optimum temperature and prevent freezing.

In one embodiment one or more power supplies are provided. In one example a total of three power supplies are provided. For example a first power supply can be used in conjunction with the ACU and adjoining components while the second and third power supplies are used to provide power to the FCU system.

In one embodiment the after treatment control system is configured to meet the emission targets at 65 NOx reduction 85 PM reduction 85 CO reduction and 85 HC reduction. The control system may be further configured to meet US CFR 40.201 and 49.210 locomotive noise level requirements.

The emissions control system of may be used for example in a rail embodiment such as a locomotive. Therein the design of the exhaust after treatment system may be adjusted based on the amount of clearance or area volume available around the locomotive engine within a locomotive engine cab. Turning to map shows various clearance diagrams with relation to engine positioned within engine cab for commonly used North American locomotive applications. Specifically map shows a first clearance diagram for a Plate C with exception area configuration dashed line Plate C and a second clearance diagram for a Plate L configuration solid line Plate L . As such Plate L is the larger of the two plates and is applicable on locomotives operated in most of the US and Canada. The slightly smaller Plate C is used for selected corridors in the northeastern US where some tunnels are slightly smaller. As indicated Plate C has an exception area which accounts at least in part for it being more restrictive. Most locomotives used in North American operations are built to fall within the first clearance diagram of the more restrictive Plate C while fewer locomotives are built to fall within the second clearance diagram of the less restrictive Plate L.

The exhaust after treatment system of the present disclosure has been designed to include all the components required to address exhaust emissions while taking into account the packaging volume available for a given plate configuration. As shown in packaging volume is defined as the space available above engine and within the chosen clearance diagram herein depicted for Plate C while maintaining space for remaining cab structures including current cab width and length clearance and any other necessary structures. shows a longitudinal view of the packaging volume available for a Plate C configured locomotive. Height requirements for mounting structure coupled with manufacturing tolerances further constrained by original packaging volume challenge the incorporation of all the components of the exhaust after treatment system within the Plate C clearance diagram. Necessary clearances and structures include an external clearance for example 1 2.5 cm long a cab structure for example 3 7.5 cm long and a mounting structure for example 5.5 14 cm long .

In the depicted embodiment exhaust after treatment system is shown as a multi leg system with three legs wherein each leg represents a single in line flow passage of exhaust after treatment components. Specifically each leg of the multi leg exhaust after treatment system enclosed within packaging volume has a complete set of all the exhaust after treatment components including all components of the SCR system and the PM reduction system.

The plurality of exhaust passages or legs of the exhaust after treatment system are configured to receive at least a portion of the exhaust stream from an exhaust outlet of engine via a transition section . To achieve this function transition section turns the exhaust flowing from the single turbocharger outlet into the three inputs of the after treatment system legs . As such this turning has to be accomplished in a very short flow length and with a sharp turn radius with a minimum loss of exhaust pressure. At the same time it is desired to provide an even flow distribution into all three legs so as to increase emissions control system performance. Thus in one embodiment as depicted in transition section is configured with one or more appropriately designed restrictions. Specifically transition section is outfitted with a restriction plate that includes a restricting orifice for a middle leg of the exhaust after treatment system. That is by way of the plate a flow aperture between the transition section and the middle leg is narrower than flow apertures between the transition section and other legs. Depending on the internal configuration of the transition section each of the openings between the transition section and legs may be different sized or they may be the same size or some may be the same size and others different. Restriction s may be appropriately designed to increase flow uniformity through empirical testing flow modeling etc. based on the internal shape configuration of the transition section the flow output range of the engine exhaust and the configuration s of the exhaust passages legs. Restriction plates may be fitted from outside to further control the flow through the legs.

In one embodiment shown in the plurality of exhaust flow passages include a first a second and a third exhaust passage with the second exhaust flow passage or middle leg nested between the first and third exhaust flow passages or outer legs . Considering that the middle region of the exhaust outlet passage through the transition section may tend to receive the bulk of the exhaust flow using a restriction plate for the middle leg that restricts flow from the middle region of the engine exhaust outlet to the middle leg of the exhaust after treatment system may facilitate better exhaust distribution between the middle and outer legs of the exhaust after treatment system. In this way by including one or more restrictions the restricted transition section may provide improved flow distribution with minimum pressure loss at an acceptable combination of cost performance and structural strength. In an embodiment the transition section provides a flow uniformity variation of 

As shown in designing the exhaust after treatment system as a multi leg herein depicted with three legs control system design also enables a smaller profile volume for the exhaust after treatment system. The lower profile after treatment system also has a reduced catalyst volume. The reduced volume allows the Plate C clearance diagram to be maintained and maximizes the potential application of the exhaust after treatment system as a retrofit product. Furthermore maintaining current control system design and packaging volumes may allow for reuse of Plate C to Plate L clearance diagrams if desired.

As shown in the exhaust after treatment system may include a PM reduction system with several exhaust after treatment components such as a diesel particular filter DPF . As such various configurations may be possible for DPF in the exhaust after treatment system. For example one or more wall flow diesel particulate filters with one or more associated burners or heaters can be used. Alternatively one or more flow through diesel particulate filters can be used. depicts a first embodiment wherein each leg of multi leg after treatment system includes a PM reduction system configured with a wall flow diesel particulate filter and an associated regeneration system including a burner or heater upstream in the direction of exhaust flow from the diesel oxidation catalyst and SCR system . depicts a second embodiment wherein each leg of exhaust after treatment system is configured with a flow through diesel particulate filter coupled to the diesel oxygen catalysts. In this embodiment an associated burner is not required thereby allowing relatively more working volume to be available. Additionally in such an embodiment the likelihood of road failures of the locomotive such as due to burner problems or clogging of the particulate filter are reduced. Further still NOx reduction and particulate matter PM reduction is improved with the use of the coupled diesel oxygen catalyst and flow through filter FTF approach in the PM reduction system.

Each of the plurality of exhaust flow passages or legs is defined by a distinct substrate or set of substrates through which the exhaust stream can flow. The substrate material used can include for example metallic or ceramic bases. Embodiments using metallic bases tend to be more robust and are available in more complex configurations. In comparison embodiments using ceramic bases tend to be more chemically and thermally stabile and have relatively lower substrate corrosion in the presence of high temperature exhaust and ammonia.

The shapes of substrate may also be varied. In one example as illustrated in embodiment of the substrate of each leg of exhaust after treatment system is rectangular shaped. In another example as illustrated in embodiment of the substrate of each leg of exhaust after treatment system is cylindrically shaped. The cylindrical substrates depicted in may be structurally stronger than other shapes made of extruded ceramic substrates. Thus given the harsh noise high impact and vibrations experienced in the locomotive environment cylindrical forms may be advantageously used in rail embodiments. In alternate less harsh applications rectangular or cube shaped substrate systems may be used.

Use of cylindrically shaped substrates may also enable a further reduction in catalyst volumes compared to other possible shapes. Specifically as shown in each leg of the multi leg exhaust after treatment system can be further divided into a plurality of sub legs herein shown as three sub legs which may be nested for further compaction. Thus in the short flow lengths available in the after treatment system of the rail embodiment flow distribution may be improved by using cylindrically shaped substrates thereby also improving engine and locomotive performance.

To further enable substantially uniform flow distribution through the exhaust flow passages of a region of the transition section coupled to the second exhaust flow passage or middle leg may be configured with more restrictions than the region of the transition section coupled to the first and third exhaust flow passages or outer legs .

Optionally one or more flow diverter systems may be employed with the substrate systems of for diverting flow through the plurality of exhaust flow passages of the exhaust after treatment system. shows a first example embodiment of a flow diverter that comprises a first flow diverter configuration . also shows a second example embodiment of a flow diverter that comprises a second flow diverter configuration . In the case that the naturally occurring flow distribution is not sufficiently distributed across the faces of the catalyst substrates additional flow diverters baffles can be employed to spread the exhaust.

In the case of a rail embodiment of the emissions control system of the present disclosure the mounting of a large and heavy exhaust after treatment system onto a locomotive engine involves addressing space restrictions and material capabilities. For example the heavy weight and large size of the exhaust after treatment system does not allow for the use of relatively simple elastic hangers or clamp rings that might otherwise be acceptable for use in automotive applications. Additionally a mounting structure used for the exhaust after treatment system has to account for longitudinal expansion given the significant thermal expansion experienced by exhaust after treatment system components. The mounting structure should also be able to withstand relatively high longitudinal shock loads that may be experienced during locomotive coupling. At the same time the mounting structure should have low impact on the maintainability of the engine while being easy to install and remove from the locomotive.

Various selection criteria may be used to address various application specific design concerns. For example where the after treatment system is mounted on the locomotive engine or locomotive cab platform these selection criteria may include buff load capability of the engine and or platform effect of mechanical vibrations on the after treatment system and related mounting structures and sub structures impact of mechanical vibrations on the reliability of other components in the vehicle such as other locomotive components effect on maintainability such as for routine maintenance operations due to engine and or platform mounting ease of modification and restoration of the locomotive costs emissions performance etc. For example an engine mounted after treatment system may be used on locomotives if the specific application has less significant on engine vibration signatures and the buff coupling loads of the locomotive are more significant while a platform mounted emissions control system may be used on locomotives if engine vibrations are very substantial but buff coupling loads are less severe or less frequent. Thus based on the selected criteria the mounting of the after treatment system e.g. position location height structures used for mounting may be varied. In one example based on the above mentioned criteria a locomotive may be fitted with an engine mountable exhaust after treatment system as shown in . In another example based on the above mentioned criteria a locomotive may be fitted with a platform mounted after treatment system as elaborated upon in .

One example of an engine mountable after treatment system is depicted in . The engine mountable after treatment system is designed to provide the desired stability and strength. In the depicted embodiment exhaust after treatment system includes a plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages wherein each of the plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages is configured to receive at least some exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold also referred to as the exhaust outlet of engine . In for simplicity of illustration the distinct exhaust flow passages are not shown connected to the exhaust manifold however when the system is deployed for operation the distinct exhaust flow passages would be connected to the exhaust manifold by way of a transition section such as section shown in . Engine herein is a locomotive engine configured to be positioned in an engine cab of the locomotive. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted on engine such that a longitudinal axis of the after treatment system is aligned in parallel or generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of engine . The plurality of distinct exhaust passages are aligned in parallel or generally parallel to each other and in parallel or generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the after treatment system .

Exhaust after treatment system is mounted on engine via an engine mounted support structure . Engine mounted support structure includes a base and a plurality of mounting legs . One end of each mounting leg is coupled to a lower surface of the base while another opposite end of each mounting leg is coupled to the engine at one of a plurality e.g. four of mounting locations . The plurality of mounting locations includes at least some locations on an engine frame of engine and at least some locations on a front end e.g. front end cover of engine . The base may include cross members attached to and extending between the peripheral edge member s of the base for enhanced rigidity. The base may be substantially rectangular although other shapes are possible and the plurality of mounting legs may be of substantially equal height although this will depend on the mounting locations that is if one of the mounting locations is lower than the others with respect to a distance from the desired position of the base then the leg for attachment to the lower mounting location will be longer than the others .

The exhaust after treatment system may be mounted to the engine mounted support structure in several ways. For example the support structure may include a plurality of vibration isolators to which the after treatment system is mounted for providing vibration and shock load isolation for each leg of the exhaust after treatment system and thereby improving system stability . shows one example of a possible configuration according to an embodiment of the invention. Here the engine mounted support structure further includes a plurality of support members . The support members are welded or otherwise attached to the top of the base and provide support and attachment points for a plurality of isolators shown schematically in this view. There may be one support member for each isolator as generally shown in or the support members may be strip like plates that extend across opposite parallel sides of the base for supporting two or more isolators as indicated by lines . The isolators are bolted or otherwise attached to the support members . In turn mounting brackets of the after treatment system are bolted or otherwise attached to the isolators . The mounting brackets hold the after treatment system above the support structure and act as attachment points of the after treatment system to the isolators or otherwise to the support structure . The mounting brackets or similar structures are not shown in for the sake of simplicity of illustration. In an embodiment with reference to each distinct leg of the after treatment system includes plural e.g. four mounting brackets which are spaced apart along the length of the leg and is attached to the base by a corresponding number e.g. four of isolators . Thus in the depicted three leg exhaust after treatment system the system is attached to the support structure at twelve supporting points which provide vibration and shock load isolation for the exhaust after treatment system.

To address thermal expansion of the after treatment system a combination of first and second different types of isolators may be used for example a combination of relatively stiff isolators and relatively soft isolators. Alternatively and or additionally the isolators are metallic isolators meaning the isolators include a metal element that performs a vibration isolation function . In one embodiment all the isolators are metallic isolators. The various metallic isolators can include a plurality of relatively stiff metallic isolators for example wire mesh isolators used at the points where the legs are attached at the engine front end . In one example for a system with three legs three such relatively stiff metallic isolators are present in the mounting structure e.g. one such isolator for each leg . The various metallic isolators may further include a plurality of relatively soft metallic isolators for example cable mounted isolators also known as cable isolators used at all other locations of the mounting structure. The isolators are generally referred to by element number specific types of isolators by etc. In one example for a system with three legs nine such relatively soft metallic isolators are present in the mounting structure. In such a configuration the wire mesh isolators handle buff load e.g. longitudinal force while the cable mounted isolators handle the thermal expansion of the exhaust after treatment system. In this way both types of isolators work in parallel to isolate the after treatment system from the effects of engine vibrations.

An example of a platform mounted emissions control system is depicted in . In this embodiment the exhaust after treatment system is mounted above the locomotive engine via a platform mounted support structure . The support structure includes a substantially rectangular base coupled to a locomotive platform via a plurality of vertical posts of substantially equal length. For example in an embodiment the base is level. The plurality of vertical posts are further coupled to each other via a plurality of angled stiffening bars . As a non limiting example the design depicted in utilizes three vertical posts on each side of the locomotive. Isolation from shock and vibration is addressed through vertical posts as well as through a plurality of vibration isolation support points e.g. isolators as explained elsewhere herein though the inputs to the different posts and support points may vary in magnitude and frequency based on their position. In one example the plurality of vertical posts are evenly distributed along the length of the locomotive cab as shown although in alternate embodiments based on the configuration of the locomotive cab a larger number of vertical posts may be provided at one end of the support structure as compared to the other end of the support structure . The vibration isolation support points may be positioned at various locations based on where in the engine or engine cab vibrations are most likely to be experienced and further based on an amount of vibration expected. For example at least some vibration isolation points may be positioned between an upper surface of the base and the substrate of each leg of the exhaust after treatment system . Additional vibration isolation points may be positioned between a lower end of each vertical post and the platform . In this way the depicted platform mounted exhaust after treatment system accounts for the moments involved with the large size and heavy mass of the after treatment system mounted on the tall structure of the locomotive.

In an embodiment an emissions control system includes a support structure and an exhaust after treatment system. The support structure is at least partially positioned above an engine. The engine is capable of producing an exhaust stream. The exhaust after treatment system has at least one exhaust after treatment unit through which at least a portion of the exhaust stream is directed to flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating the portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. The at least one exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine. Additionally the engine is supported on a platform and the support structure is attached to the platform.

In an embodiment an emissions control system includes a support structure and an exhaust after treatment system. The support structure is at least partially positioned above an engine. The engine is capable of producing an exhaust stream. The exhaust after treatment system has at least one exhaust after treatment unit through which at least a portion of the exhaust stream is directed to flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating the portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. The at least one exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine. The engine is housed in an engine cab. The at least one exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine such that a longitudinal axis of the at least one exhaust after treatment unit is at least generally parallel to a longitudinal axis of the engine and a length of the engine cab.

In some rail embodiments due to the complex shape and size of the exhaust after treatment system as it extends above the original engine cab the design of the engine cab is also modified to better protect and support the mounted exhaust after treatment system. It will be appreciated that the engine cab design for a given locomotive may be selected based on a variety of criteria such as accessibility to engine cab components and ease of manufacturing. Various example engine cab designs are now discussed with reference to .

A first example embodiment of an engine cab of locomotive housing a locomotive engine and an exhaust after treatment system is depicted in . Engine cab is defined by a roof assembly and side walls . Engine cab is shown with several interfaces for communicating with other cabs and components of locomotive . Engine cab is configured to protect an enclosed exhaust after treatment system not shown an engine housed within the cab and auxiliaries from rain snow dust wind sun and inclement weather conditions. Engine cab is also configured to support a horn system lighting if present and power outlets. The design of engine cab enables operating personnel to be protected from hot surfaces and rotating parts while also enabling the cab to support maintenance personnel on the roof.

The horn system may include one or more horns positioned above the engine within locomotive engine cab at a front end herein also referred to as end of the engine cab between the after treatment system and a front wall not shown of the cab an open end of at least one horn facing towards the center of the engine cab .

In the depicted embodiment engine cab is designed with a complete uniformity of appearance and with a locomotive exterior. Additionally multiple interfaces are provided. These may include for example an interface communicating with a urea tank an interface communicating with blower cab an interface interacting with radiator cab and an interface for a rail platform not shown . The engine cab and the several interfaces are designed so as to provide sufficient clearance to allow for significant thermal variations in the exhaust after treatment system while having minimal impact on the maintainability of the after treatment system and the engine. In one example this is achieved by positioning the interface between the engine cab and urea tank on the A side walkway while the urea tank is bolted to the platform of the locomotive.

Packaging the horn system within the Plate L clearance profile while also finding a suitable location for the horn system above the engine cab roof can pose design challenges. Additionally if any changes are made to the horn system or its location Federal Railroad Administration FRA regulations require the changes to be tested per FRA rules. show two different horn system configurations and respectively that have been designed taking these challenges into account. As such each horn system may include one or more horns positioned above the engine within locomotive engine cab at a front end of the engine cab between the after treatment system and a front wall of the cab an open end of at least one horn facing towards the center of the engine cab . The first embodiment depicts a single chime horn while the second embodiment depicts a split horn including two horns a first horn with a 3 chime configuration and a second horn with a 2 chime configuration .

As elaborated previously with reference to the SCR system of the exhaust after treatment system may use a reductant e.g. diesel exhaust fluid DEF referring to a 32.5 solution of urea in water for the reduction of exhaust NOx species. In the example embodiment of in a urea based e.g. DEF system the urea tank for storing urea may be sized such that the frequency of refilling urea in the urea tank matches refueling of the locomotive engine fuel tank. The urea tank and delivery system may also be designed to allow for reasonable serviceability of the engine alternator and radiator cab with minimal modification redesign of existing locomotive hardware.

With regard to the location of the urea e.g. DEF or other reductant storage tank various configurations are contemplated that take into account the design constraints. These configurations include for example carving the urea tank out of the existing fuel tank for the engine installing the urea tank on the locomotive walkway as a raised walkway and installing the urea tank in the radiator cab.

In any of the embodiments set forth herein for being configured as a raised walkway the tank may have one or more of the following features i top surfaces configured as walkway surfaces e.g. anti skid slip surfaces ii the tank structure e.g. top bottom side walls and any internal supports is configured to both hold urea and to support the weight of plural human operators and or iii the tank structure comprises structural elements for supporting the weight of plural human operators but those same structural elements are not used for holding urea and the tank further includes an interior member that holds urea but does not act for walkway support e.g. the tank comprises an external structure and an internal vessel the external structure forms part of the walkway for supporting human operators the internal vessel holds urea but does not bear or support weight present upon the walkway . Additionally the tank may be installed in a single sided configuration meaning the only urea tank in the vehicle is positioned on one side of the vehicle the sides being defined as left or right of a longitudinal axis of the vehicle .

Multiple urea heating systems may be included for freeze prevention during locomotive use. In one embodiment the freeze prevention system may include a first resistive heater e.g. submersible resistive heater that can deliver 1000 1200 W at 74V DC from the locomotive bus. The freeze prevention system may enable the urea to be kept in a liquid state even when ambient temperatures dip to 40 C. Urea thawing may be needed in the case of a locomotive shutdown such as when the locomotive has been shutdown for a number of days while being exposed to temperatures below 10 C. In one embodiment to address the thawing a second resistive heater e.g. submersible resistive heater may be included that can provide 6000 10 000 W at 240V AC from a way side power source such as a wayside locomotive repair shop . In one example the second submersible heater can completely thaw a full tank of urea in approximately 24 hours.

In one embodiment only a fraction of the urea flow or flow of other reductant delivered to the exhaust after treatment system from the urea tank by the urea injectors of the urea delivery system is injected into the after treatment system for mixing hydrolysis and subsequent NOx reduction. In this embodiment the remaining un injected fraction of the urea flow is used to cool the urea injectors before being returned to the urea tank. Such an embodiment may include urea delivery lines urea return lines urea injectors urea transfer pumps filters and heaters. The urea delivery system according to such an embodiment may be selected based on one or more factors including delivery of urea at sufficient flow and pressure for the desired application volume requirement that is less than the available packaging volume and an ability to interact with the urea control system equivalently to current systems such as with a single pump and a single injector system .

In alternate embodiments the urea or other reductant delivery system may include a single pump with an accumulator system or a multi pump system having multiple pumps. The single pump system utilizes an accumulator to hold a volume of pressurized urea available for injection from all six injectors as needed. The accumulator helps to moderate pressure oscillations from the single pump that are more pronounced than those experienced on a system utilizing multiple pumps. In comparison the multi pump system utilizes individual pumps for each leg exhaust after treatment unit of the exhaust after treatment system with a potential requirement for a low pressure supply pump to assist in priming. An example multi pump urea delivery system is shown in . In a multi pump reductant delivery system includes a reductant storage tank a low pressure feed supply pump section boost pump section and a high pressure pump section for each leg unit. Low pressure and high pressure are relative meaning the low pressure pump is a lower pressure than the high pressure pump. 

As previously mentioned in some embodiments the exhaust after treatment system further includes a delivery system including a delivery line and a delivery pump for receiving reductant from the reductant storage tank as shown in . In one example the urea delivery lines may be sized to about 1.5 3.8 cm outer diameter each with a diameter of 3 7.6 cm in a bundle . As shown in at least a portion of the urea delivery line of urea delivery system is mounted along engine block and along the longitudinal axis of after treatment system . By mounting urea delivery lines on exhaust after treatment system engine maintenance disturbances are avoided as well as avoiding exposing the urea to higher temperatures on the turbocharger end of engine .

In this way by configuring an exhaust after treatment system with a plurality of leg and sub legs exhaust after treatment units the after treatment system can be designed to be accommodated within a variety of vehicles. Further by using cylindrical substrates for each leg it is possible that further compaction may be achieved without reducing the number of after treatment components in each leg.

As described herein certain embodiments of an emissions control system include one or more diesel particulate filters DPF . Alternatively in any of the embodiments set forth herein different types of filters may be used such as flow thru filters or it may be the case that no filter is used.

According to one aspect distinct means that exhaust that travels through one passage does not travel through the others when the passages are arrayed in parallel and or that common structure is not shared for defining the passages.

According to one aspect of the invention the exhaust after treatment system includes plural exhaust after treatment units the units may be arranged for functional operation in parallel where each unit defines an exhaust flow passage and includes within or otherwise associated with the passage a respective plurality of different types of exhaust after treatment component e.g. each unit may include a filter and another type of exhaust after treatment component different than a filter. That is a first unit includes a first set of exhaust after treatment components having a first exhaust after treatment component and a second exhaust after treatment component the first and second components being different types of components from one another a second unit includes a second set of exhaust after treatment components having a third exhaust after treatment component and a fourth exhaust after treatment component the third and fourth components being different types of components from one another etc. The first set may be the same as the second set or different. That is if the first unit includes a first component A and a first component B with A and B being different types of components from one another the second unit may include a second component A and a second component B or the second unit may include A or B and a component C of a different type than A or B or the second unit may include components C and D C being a different type of component than D. 

Thus in an embodiment an emissions control system comprises an exhaust after treatment system and a control module. The exhaust after treatment system comprises plural exhaust treatment units functionally arranged in parallel that is parallel in regards to function not necessarily that the units are geometrically parallel although that is an option where each unit defines an exhaust flow passage and includes within or otherwise associated with the passage a respective plurality of different types of exhaust after treatment components. Inputs of the exhaust treatment units are connected to an exhaust outlet of an engine for receiving an exhaust stream from the engine. The control module is in communication with the exhaust after treatment system for controlling at least one of the different types of exhaust after treatment components in the exhaust treatment units e.g. for controlling respective injection of an amount of reductant into a portion of the exhaust stream flowing through each of exhaust treatment units.

The other figures and associated description herein are applicable in various embodiments to the system shown in . For example each exhaust treatment unit may include a PM reduction system and or an SCR system as shown in .

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system comprising a control module and an exhaust after treatment system. The exhaust after treatment system includes a plurality of exhaust after treatment units functionally arranged in parallel or otherwise . Each exhaust after treatment unit respectively includes at least one substrate a particulate matter reduction system and a selective catalytic reduction system. The at least one substrate defines an exhaust flow passage an input of the exhaust flow passage is connectable to an exhaust outlet of an engine such as an engine in a locomotive or other rail vehicle . The particulate matter reduction system has a diesel particulate filter and a diesel oxidation catalyst upstream of the diesel particulate filter. The selective catalytic reduction system is downstream of the diesel particulate filter. The selective catalytic reduction system has a reductant injector with an injector output in the exhaust flow passage at an injection site a selective catalytic reduction catalyst downstream of the injection site and an ammonia slip catalyst downstream of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst. The control module is configured to communicate with the exhaust after treatment system for controlling each reductant injector for injection of reductant in the exhaust flow passage at the injection site. In another embodiment of the locomotive each after treatment unit further comprises a regeneration device for regenerating the diesel particulate filter the regeneration device may include a burner.

Another embodiment relates to a method of operating an exhaust after treatment system. The method includes a step of dividing an exhaust stream from an engine into a plurality of exhaust sub streams. The method additionally includes a step of respectively routing the plurality of sub streams through a plurality of exhaust after treatment units. The method additionally includes in each exhaust after treatment unit a step of treating the exhaust sub stream routed through the exhaust after treatment unit using a first exhaust after treatment component of the exhaust after treatment unit.

In another embodiment of the method the first exhaust after treatment component comprises a reductant injector. The method further includes a step of injecting reductant into each of the plurality of sub streams. In this manner the exhaust sub streams are treated through chemical alteration of a predetermined chemical component of the exhaust stream in response to the injected reductant.

In another embodiment the method further includes a step of in each exhaust after treatment unit filtering the exhaust sub stream routed through the exhaust after treatment unit prior to the exhaust sub stream encountering the injected reductant. The filtration step may be performed using a filter and the method may further include a step of regenerating the filter with a burner.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system having a transition section and an exhaust after treatment system. The transition section is attachable to an exhaust outlet of an engine and configured to divide an exhaust stream exiting the exhaust outlet into plural exhaust sub streams. The exhaust after treatment system has a plurality of exhaust after treatment units through which the plural exhaust sub streams can be directed to respectively flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating a portion of the exhaust sub stream flowing through the unit. Portions of are applicable to such an emissions control system. shows another embodiment. Here an emissions control system includes a transition section and an exhaust after treatment system . The transition section is attachable to an exhaust outlet of an engine and configured to divide an exhaust stream exiting the exhaust outlet into plural exhaust sub streams . The exhaust after treatment system has a plurality of exhaust after treatment units through which the plural exhaust sub streams can be directed to respectively flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating a portion of the exhaust sub stream flowing through the unit. In another embodiment each exhaust after treatment unit includes a particulate matter reduction system having a diesel particulate filter and a diesel oxidation catalyst upstream of the diesel particulate filter and a selective catalytic reduction system downstream of the diesel particulate filter and having a reductant injector with an injector output in the exhaust flow passage at an injection site a selective catalytic reduction catalyst downstream of the injection site and an ammonia slip catalyst downstream of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst such as shown in .

In another embodiment an emissions control system includes a support structure and an exhaust after treatment system. The support structure is at least partially positioned above an engine. The engine is capable of producing an exhaust stream. The exhaust after treatment system has at least one exhaust after treatment unit through which at least a portion of the exhaust stream is directed to flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating the portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. The exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine. Portions of are applicable to such an emissions control system. shows another embodiment. Here an emissions control system includes a support structure and an exhaust after treatment system . The support structure is at least partially positioned above an engine . The engine is capable of producing an exhaust stream . The exhaust after treatment system has at least one exhaust after treatment unit through which at least a portion of the exhaust stream is directed to flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating the portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. Each of the at least one exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine.

In another embodiment of an emissions control system the exhaust after treatment system includes a plurality of exhaust after treatment units . The system further comprises a transition section attached to an exhaust outlet of the engine that divides the exhaust stream into plural exhaust sub streams respectively directed through the plurality of exhaust after treatment units. See and related description as an example. The plurality of exhaust after treatment units are attached to the support structure and positioned above the engine.

In another embodiment of an emissions control system the support structure is attached to the engine . For example the support structure may be attached to a frame engine block cover or other load bearing portion of the engine which is capable of bearing the weight of the support structure and exhaust treatment unit s without damage to the engine. In an embodiment the support structure is attached to one or more parts of the engine that are capable of bearing at least 5000 pounds 2250 kg without damage which is a typical weight for relatively large sized components support structure exhaust after treatment units transition section used in conjunction with a locomotive or similar diesel engine. This embodiment is applicable to an exhaust after treatment system with one exhaust after treatment unit leg or with plural exhaust after treatment units.

In another embodiment of an emissions control system where the support structure is attached to the engine the support structure includes a base and a plurality of mounting legs. The plurality of mounting legs are respectively attached to the engine at a plurality of different mounting locations and the base is attached to the legs e.g. to distal ends of the legs and positioned above the engine. The exhaust after treatment unit s is directly or indirectly attached to the base that is directly connected to the base or connected to elements that are in turn connected to the base. Examples of such an arrangement are shown in .

In another embodiment of an emissions control system the support structure comprises a plurality of isolators. Each exhaust after treatment unit is attached to one or more of the isolators above the engine for vibration reduction. For example the isolators may be attached to the base and the exhaust after treatment unit s attached to the isolators. Example isolators are shown and described in and related description.

The isolators may be metallic isolators as described above. Alternatively or additionally the plurality of isolators may include one or more first isolators and one or more second isolators the first isolators and the second isolators are different types of isolators. Here each exhaust after treatment unit is attached to at least one of the first isolators and to at least one of the second isolators. For example the first isolators may be a first type of metallic isolator e.g. wire mesh isolators and the second isolators may be a second different type of metallic isolator e.g. cable mounted isolators . In another embodiment the first isolators are relatively stiff isolators more resistance to movement and the second isolators are relatively soft isolators less resistance to movement . In another embodiment the first isolators are adapted for accommodating a buff load of the exhaust after treatment system and the second isolators are adapted for accommodating thermal expansion of the exhaust after treatment system. For example depending on the particular component used relatively stiff isolators e.g. wire mesh isolators may be better adapted to accommodating a buff load and relatively soft isolators e.g. cable mounted isolators may be better adapted to accommodating thermal expansion.

Example isolator configurations are further explained in regards to and related description. additionally illustrate two embodiments of a cable mounted isolator configuration. In a cable mounted isolator shown in side elevation view is attached to the base of a support structure such as mountable to and or above an engine . In turn an exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the cable mounted isolator . In this manner the exhaust after treatment unit is attached to and supported by the base but the amount of vibration transferred from the base to the unit such as generated by operation of the engine is reduced and thermal expansion is accommodated. In a cable mounted isolator shown in perspective view is attached to a support member which is in turn attached to the base of a support structure. A mounting bracket is attached to the cable mounted isolator . The mounting bracket supports and or is part of an exhaust after treatment unit . additionally illustrates a configuration with a wire mesh isolator. Here a wire mesh isolator shown in side elevation view is attached to the base of a support structure such as mountable to and or above an engine . In turn an exhaust after treatment unit is attached to the wire mesh isolator . The wire mesh isolator includes a wire mesh element that interconnects and or buffers two end connector elements e.g. the wire mesh element is sandwiched between and attached to the end connector elements for conferring a degree of movement there between.

In another embodiment an emissions control system includes a support structure and an exhaust after treatment system. The support structure includes a base a plurality of mounting legs and a plurality of isolators. The mounting legs are respectively attached to an engine at a plurality of different mounting locations. The base is attached to the legs and positioned above the engine. The isolators are attached to the base. The exhaust after treatment system includes a plurality of exhaust after treatment units through which an exhaust stream of the engine is directed to flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating a portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. The plurality of isolators includes plural first isolators and plural second isolators the first isolators and the second isolators are different types of isolators. Each of the exhaust after treatment units is attached to at least one of the first isolators and to at least one of the second isolators. For example each exhaust after treatment unit may be attached to the base by way of i at least one wire mesh isolator or other relatively stiff isolator and ii at least one cable mounted isolator or other relatively soft isolator. As another example each exhaust after treatment unit may be attached to the base by way of only one wire mesh isolator or other relatively stiff isolator and plural cable mounted isolators or other relatively soft isolators.

With reference to another embodiment relates to an emissions control system . The system includes a support structure . The support structure includes a plurality of mounting legs a base attached to the legs e.g. attached to distal ends of the legs and a plurality of isolators for attachment to the base . The mounting legs are spaced apart for mounting to an engine at a plurality of different mounting locations and positioning of the base above the engine. The plurality of isolators comprises plural first isolators and plural second isolators the first isolators and the second isolators are different types of isolators. The base includes an array of attachment points for the plurality of isolators for each of a plurality of exhaust after treatment units to be attached to the base by way of at least one of the first isolators and at least one of the second isolators

Another embodiment relates to a rail vehicle e.g. locomotive system. The rail vehicle system includes an engine cab defined by a roof assembly and side walls an engine positioned in the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the engine is aligned in parallel to a length of the engine cab and an exhaust after treatment system. The exhaust after treatment system defines a plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages. Each of the plurality of exhaust flow passages is configured to receive at least some exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted above the engine within a space defined by a top surface of the engine exhaust manifold the roof assembly and the side walls of the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system is aligned at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the engine.

In another embodiment of the rail vehicle system the plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages are aligned at least generally parallel to each other and at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system.

In another embodiment of the rail vehicle system the system further includes a support structure attached to the engine. The support structure comprises a base and a plurality of mounting legs. The mounting legs are respectively attached to the engine at a plurality of different mounting locations. The base is attached to the legs and positioned above the engine. At least one of the exhaust flow passages of the exhaust after treatment system is attached to the base and positioned above the engine.

In another embodiment of the rail vehicle system the plurality of mounting locations include at least some locations on an engine block of the engine and at least some locations on a front end of the engine.

In another embodiment of the rail vehicle system the roof assembly includes a plurality of roof panels that are hingedly attached to hinged to a side wall of the engine cab such that the exhaust after treatment system is accessible through at least one of the plurality of hingedly attached roof panels.

In another embodiment of the rail vehicle system the roof panels are of substantially equal dimensions. Alternatively the plurality of roof panels includes a first larger panel and a second smaller panel.

In another embodiment the rail vehicle system additionally includes a horn system with one or more horns positioned above the engine within the engine cab at a front end of the engine cab between the exhaust after treatment system and a front wall of the cab. An open end of at least one horn faces towards a center of the engine cab.

Other details of the rail vehicle system described immediately above can be referenced from the figures and accompanying description.

Another embodiment relates to a vehicle system. The vehicle system includes a walkway and a tank. The walkway has a support frame. The support frame defines a walkway surface and is configured to accommodate at least the weight of an average human adult at least 90 kg . The tank is positioned within an interior of the support frame and is configured to hold liquid e.g. urea DEF or other reductant . Further information relating to the vehicle system in various embodiments can be found in and related description see also and related description.

In another embodiment of the vehicle system the walkway surface is planar and has a length and a width the length being longer than the width and the width being at least wide enough to accommodate the average human adult walking along the walkway at least 1 0.3 m wide . Further information relating to the vehicle system of this embodiment can be found in and related description.

In another embodiment of the vehicle system the support frame defines a step in the walkway surface the step transitioning from a first level of the walkway to a second level of the walkway. Further information relating to the vehicle system of this embodiment can be found in and related description.

In another embodiment of the vehicle system the walkway is a side walkway of the rail vehicle. The side walkway extends from towards a front of the rail vehicle to towards a rear of the rail vehicle along a side of the rail vehicle. Towards a front means starting within the front half of the vehicle and towards a rear means extending rearwards. Further information relating to the vehicle system of this embodiment can be found in and related description.

With reference to another embodiment relates to a vehicle system . The vehicle system includes a walkway and a tank . The walkway has a support frame . The support frame defines a walkway surface and is configured to accommodate at least the weight of an average human adult. The tank is positioned within an interior of the support frame and is configured to hold liquid e.g. urea or other reductant . The tank is an interior surface of the support frame. The support frame thereby both supports at least an average human adult and defines a volume of the tank.

In another embodiment of a vehicle system the system further includes a first resistive heater e.g. submersible resistive heater in thermal connection with the tank and configured to be driven by an electrical bus of a vehicle for heating the liquid e.g. urea or other reductant at a first heat output e.g. wattage . In another embodiment the vehicle system further includes a second resistive heater e.g. submersible resistive heater in thermal connection with the tank and configured to be driven by an off vehicle electrical power source for heating the liquid e.g. urea or other reductant at a second heat output. The second heat output is greater than the first heat output. Either embodiment first and or second resistive heater is applicable for use in conjunction with any of the other embodiments set forth herein. As one example however with reference to a first resistive heater is in thermal connection with the tank and configured to be driven by an electrical bus of a vehicle for heating the liquid e.g. urea or other reductant at a first heat output e.g. wattage . A second resistive heater is in thermal connection with the tank and configured to be driven by an off vehicle electrical power source for heating the liquid e.g. urea or other reductant at a second heat output. As noted the second heat output may be greater than the first heat output. Other information relating to these embodiments can be found in the sections above relating to the urea heating systems.

Another embodiment relates to a rail vehicle. The rail vehicle comprises a walkway and a tank. The walkway has a support frame. The support frame defines a walkway surface and is configured to accommodate at least the weight of an average human adult. The tank is positioned within an interior of the support frame and is configured to hold liquid e.g. urea or other reductant . In an embodiment the tank is fluidly attached to an emissions control system of the rail vehicle for delivering the urea or other reductant to the emissions control system. In an embodiment the tank is the only tank in the rail vehicle for holding urea or other reductant.

In another embodiment a vehicle system includes an engine cab an engine and an exhaust after treatment system. The engine cab is defined by a roof assembly and side walls. The engine is positioned in the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the engine is aligned in parallel to a length of the engine cab. The exhaust after treatment system defines at least one exhaust flow passage. The at least one exhaust flow passage is configured to receive exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted such that a longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system is aligned at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system includes a reductant storage tank and for each exhaust flow passage a respective reductant injector configured to inject a reductant from the reductant storage tank into an injection site in the exhaust flow passage. The reductant storage tank forms at least part of an exterior operator walkway positioned on a side of the engine cab.

In another embodiment the exhaust after treatment system further includes a delivery system with a delivery line and a delivery pump for receiving reductant from the reductant storage tank. At least a portion of the delivery line is mounted along an engine block and along the longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system. The emissions control system includes a reductant e.g. urea delivery system for delivering reductant to a reductant injector. The reductant delivery system is configured to control delivery of the reductant to the reductant injector such that a flow rate of the delivered reductant is greater than a rate of reductant injected by the reductant injector. The reductant delivery system includes a flow path for routing an un injected portion of the delivered reductant to cool the reductant injector prior to returning to a reductant storage tank.

In another embodiment a vehicle system includes an engine cab an engine and an exhaust after treatment system. The engine cab is defined by a roof assembly and side walls. The engine is positioned in the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the engine is aligned in parallel to a length of the engine cab. The exhaust after treatment system defines at least one exhaust flow passage. The at least one exhaust flow passage is configured to receive exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted such that a longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system is aligned at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system includes a reductant storage tank and for each exhaust flow passage a respective reductant injector configured to inject a reductant from the reductant storage tank into an injection site in the exhaust flow passage. The exhaust after treatment system also includes a reductant e.g. urea delivery system for delivering reductant to the reductant injector s . The reductant delivery system is configured to control delivery of the reductant to the reductant injectors such that a flow rate of the delivered reductant is greater than a rate of reductant injected by the reductant injectors. The reductant delivery system includes a flow path for routing an un injected portion of the delivered reductant to cool the reductant injectors prior to returning to a reductant storage tank.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system. The emissions control system includes an exhaust after treatment system having plural reductant injectors and a reductant delivery system for delivering reductant to the plural reductant injectors. The reductant delivery system comprises one of a single pump and an accumulator system where the single pump is configured to pump the reductant to the accumulator system and the accumulator system is configured to hold pressurized reductant available for injection by the plural reductant injectors as needed or plural pumps for respectively delivering the reductant to the plural reductant injectors.

In another embodiment the reductant delivery system further includes a reductant supply line for routing reductant from a reductant tank to the injectors. At least part of the reductant supply line is routed along an engine block of an engine whose exhaust is to be treated by the exhaust after treatment system and at least part of the reductant supply line is routed along the exhaust after treatment system.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system comprising a control module and an exhaust after treatment system with a plurality of exhaust after treatment units wherein. Each exhaust after treatment unit respectively comprises at least one substrate defining an exhaust flow passage where an input of the exhaust flow passage is connectable to an exhaust outlet of an engine a particulate matter reduction system having a diesel particulate filter and a diesel oxidation catalyst upstream of the diesel particulate filter and a selective catalytic reduction system downstream of the diesel particulate filter and having a reductant injector with an injector output in the exhaust flow passage at an injection site a selective catalytic reduction catalyst downstream of the injection site and an ammonia slip catalyst downstream of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst. The control module is configured to communicate with the exhaust after treatment system for controlling each reductant injector for injection of reductant in the exhaust flow passage at the injection site. In another embodiment each exhaust after treatment unit further comprises a regeneration device for regenerating the diesel particulate filter the regeneration device including a burner.

Another embodiment relates to a method of operating an exhaust after treatment system. The method includes dividing an exhaust stream from an engine into a plurality of exhaust sub streams respectively routing the plurality of sub streams through a plurality of exhaust after treatment units and in each exhaust after treatment unit treating the exhaust sub stream routed through the exhaust after treatment unit using a first exhaust after treatment component of the exhaust after treatment unit. In another embodiment the first exhaust after treatment component comprises a reductant injector and the method further comprises injecting reductant into each of the plurality of sub streams whereby the exhaust sub streams are treated through chemical alteration of a determined chemical component of the exhaust stream in response to the injected reductant. In another embodiment the method further comprises in each exhaust after treatment unit filtering the exhaust sub stream routed through the exhaust after treatment unit prior to the exhaust sub stream encountering the injected reductant. In another embodiment the exhaust sub stream is filtered using a filter and the method further comprises regenerating the filter with a burner.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system. The system comprises a transition section attachable to an exhaust outlet of an engine and configured to divide an exhaust stream exiting the exhaust outlet into plural exhaust sub streams and an exhaust after treatment system having a plurality of exhaust after treatment units through which the plural exhaust sub streams can be directed to respectively flow. Each exhaust after treatment unit has at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating a portion of the exhaust sub stream flowing through the unit. In another embodiment each exhaust after treatment unit includes a particulate matter reduction system having a diesel particulate filter and a diesel oxidation catalyst upstream of the diesel particulate filter and a selective catalytic reduction system downstream of the diesel particulate filter and having a reductant injector with an injector output in the exhaust flow passage at an injection site a selective catalytic reduction catalyst downstream of the injection site and an ammonia slip catalyst downstream of the selective catalytic reduction catalyst.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system. The system includes a support structure comprising a base a plurality of mounting legs and a plurality of isolators the plurality of mounting legs respectively attached to an engine at a plurality of different mounting locations and the base attached to the legs and positioned above the engine wherein the isolators are attached to the base. The system also includes an exhaust after treatment system having a plurality of exhaust after treatment units through which an exhaust stream of the engine is directed to flow each exhaust after treatment unit having at least one exhaust after treatment component for treating a portion of the exhaust stream flowing through the unit. The plurality of isolators comprises plural first isolators and plural second isolators the first isolators and the second isolators being different types of isolators. Each of the exhaust after treatment units is attached to at least one of the first isolators and to at least one of the second isolators. In another embodiment the first isolators are wire mesh isolators and the second isolators are cable mounted isolators.

Another embodiment relates to an emissions control system. The system includes a support structure comprising a plurality of mounting legs a base attached to the legs and a plurality of isolators for attachment to the base the plurality of mounting legs spaced apart for mounting to an engine at a plurality of different mounting locations and positioning of the base above the engine. The plurality of isolators comprises plural first isolators and plural second isolators the first isolators and the second isolators being different types of isolators. The base includes an array of attachment points for the plurality of isolators for each of a plurality of exhaust after treatment units to be attached to the base by way of at least one of the first isolators and at least one of the second isolators.

Another embodiment relates to a rail vehicle system. The system includes an engine cab defined by a roof assembly and side walls an engine positioned in the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the engine is aligned in parallel to a length of the engine cab and an exhaust after treatment system defining a plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages. Each of the plurality of exhaust flow passages is configured to receive at least some exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted above the engine within a space defined by a top surface of the engine exhaust manifold the roof assembly and the side walls of the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system is aligned at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the engine. In another embodiment the plurality of distinct exhaust flow passages are aligned at least generally parallel to each other and at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system. In another embodiment the rail vehicle system further comprises a support structure attached to the engine. The support structure comprises a base and a plurality of mounting legs. The mounting legs are respectively attached to the engine at a plurality of different mounting locations and the base is attached to the legs and positioned above the engine. At least the exhaust flow passages of the exhaust after treatment system are attached to the base and positioned above the engine. In another embodiment the mounting locations include at least some locations on an engine block of the engine and at least some locations on a front end of the engine. In another embodiment the roof assembly includes a plurality of roof panels hingedly attached to a side wall of the engine cab such that the exhaust after treatment system is accessible through at least one of the plurality of hingedly attached roof panels. In another embodiment the plurality of roof panels are of substantially equal dimensions or wherein the plurality of roof panels includes a first larger panel and a second smaller panel. In another embodiment the rail vehicle system further comprises a horn system including one or more horns positioned above the engine within the engine cab at a front end of the engine cab between the exhaust after treatment system and a front wall of the cab. An open end of at least one horn faces towards a center of the engine cab.

Another embodiment relates to a vehicle system. The vehicle system includes a engine cab defined by a roof assembly and side walls an engine positioned in the engine cab such that a longitudinal axis of the engine is aligned in parallel to a length of the engine cab and an exhaust after treatment system defining at least one exhaust flow passage. The at least one exhaust flow passage is configured to receive exhaust gas from an exhaust manifold of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system is mounted such that a longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system is aligned at least generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the engine. The exhaust after treatment system comprises a reductant storage tank and for each exhaust flow passage a respective reductant injector configured to inject a reductant from the reductant storage tank into an injection site in the exhaust flow passage. The reductant storage tank forms at least part of an exterior operator walkway positioned on a side of the engine cab. In another embodiment the exhaust after treatment system further includes a delivery system including a delivery line and a delivery pump for receiving reductant from the reductant storage tank. At least a portion of the delivery line is mounted along an engine block and along the longitudinal axis of the exhaust after treatment system.

The term control module refers to one or more hardware elements and or software elements configured for carrying out the indicated function of the control module. The hardware elements may include one or more electronic devices or components such as a microcontroller or processor and related components. Software refers to a predetermined list of non transient machine readable instructions stored in a tangible medium which are used as the basis for controller hardware to carry out one or more designated functions determined according to the contents of the software instructions. In an embodiment a control module comprises a processor controller related electronic components e.g. components for providing power to the processor controller and software that is executed by the processor controller to perform one or more designated functions.

The term generally parallel as used herein means at or within 5 degrees of parallel. The term at least generally parallel means parallel or at or within 5 degrees of parallel. Parallel or generally parallel is equivalent to stating at least generally parallel. Substantially means the stated dimension quality but for any manufacturing tolerances variances. For example substantially equal means equal but for manufacturing tolerances variances.

In the specification and claims reference will be made to a number of terms have the following meanings. The singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Approximating language as used herein throughout the specification and claims may be applied to modify any quantitative representation that could permissibly vary without resulting in a change in the basic function to which it is related. Accordingly a value modified by a term such as about is not to be limited to the precise value specified. In some instances the approximating language may correspond to the precision of an instrument for measuring the value. Similarly free may be used in combination with a term and may include an insubstantial amount or immaterial structure while still being considered free of the modified term.

As used herein the terms may and may be indicate a possibility of an occurrence within a set of circumstances a possession of a specified property characteristic or function and or qualify another verb by expressing one or more of an ability capability or possibility associated with the qualified verb. Accordingly usage of may and may be indicates that a modified term is apparently appropriate capable or suitable for an indicated capacity function or usage while taking into account that in some circumstances the modified term may sometimes not be appropriate capable or suitable. For example in some circumstances an event or capacity can be expected while in other circumstances the event or capacity cannot occur this distinction is captured by the terms may and may be .

The embodiments described herein are examples of articles compositions and methods having elements corresponding to the elements of the invention recited in the claims. This written description may enable those of ordinary skill in the art to make and use embodiments having alternative elements that likewise correspond to the elements of the invention recited in the claims. The scope of the invention thus includes articles compositions and methods that do not differ from the literal language of the claims and further includes other articles compositions and methods with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims. While only certain features and embodiments have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes may occur to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art. The appended claims cover all such modifications and changes.

