---

title: Warhead fuse
abstract: A warhead fuse mechanism is used to prevent an accidental explosive event of a warhead by separating the booster lead into a plurality of booster lead segments, with each of the individual booster lead segments having a diameter less than the failure diameter of the booster lead explosive. A separating device separates the booster lead segments from each other to maintain the failure diameter until detonation is desired.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09638504&OS=09638504&RS=09638504
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09638504
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100923
---
The present application is a Continuation In Part Application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 820 041 filed on Jun. 8 2007 now abandoned.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention provides a safety mechanism useful in warhead fuses that sufficiently restricts the booster lead diameter to preclude transfer of an explosive event through the booster lead thereby preventing accidental detonation of the warhead main charge.

Typically conventional explosive trains include a fuze detonator safe arm mechanism booster charge and explosive device or warhead. Current fuses such as those incorporated in general purpose bombs used by the United States Navy and Air Force contain a pellet of booster explosive to initiate the main charge explosive. The fuse pellet may be made from a primary explosive to allow a slapper or detonator to initiate the booster pellet. However the primary explosive may be subject to an accidental detonation such as high speed fragment impact cook off or other initiating occurrence resulting from shipboard accidents or operations mishandling etc. With accidental detonation the primary explosive is likely to detonate the main charge explosive. One example of a munition that suffers from the problem of accidental armed deployment is the M230 M231 fuze used on the sub munitions of the 2.75 multi purpose sub munition MPSM Rocket Warhead. This munition contains a spring loaded stored energy firing pin which can cause unintentional or accidental detonation of armed dud sub munitions such as the M73 M75 on the battlefield or upon accidental expulsion. Accidental explosion of sub munitions on board United States Warships or other installations present potentially serious safety hazards to personnel equipment and expensive weapon systems.

Safe arm mechanisms are interposed between the detonator and booster to protect the explosive device from accidental detonation. The safe arm mechanisms may include out of line methodologies whereby the detonator is separated from the booster by one or more physical barriers. Accidental detonation of the detonator can not penetrate the physical barrier and detonate the warhead. Although this method is simple and direct it may not always prove reliable.

A number of main charge explosives are qualified as Extremely Insensitive Detonating Substances EIDS or 1.6S materials. EIDS materials offer less susceptibility to stimuli such as fragment attack and cook off. Nonetheless a warhead having a detonator fuse and main charge explosive meeting the 1.6 standard needs fuses that are less vulnerable to fragment attack and thermal cook off.

Accordingly there is a need in the art to provide improved safety of fuse mechanisms for explosives. The present invention addresses this and other needs.

The present invention includes a weapon system having a warhead fuse for preventing an accidental explosive event of a warhead explosive having the warhead explosive a warhead fuse with a warhead detonator effective for detonating the warhead explosive a plurality of booster leads with each of the booster leads having a diameter constituting less than the failure diameter of the explosive of the booster lead and a booster lead separating device to separate the plurality of booster leads from each other effective to maintain the failure diameter.

The present invention also includes a method for preventing an accidental explosive event of a warhead comprising the steps of providing a weapon system having a warhead explosive a warhead fuse with a warhead detonator effective for detonating the warhead explosive a plurality of booster leads with each of the booster leads having a diameter constituting less than the failure diameter of the explosive of the booster lead and a booster lead separating device to separate the plurality of booster leads from each other effective to maintain the failure diameter and maintaining the position of the booster leads using the booster lead separating device to maintain the failure diameter within the booster leads wherein a detonation of any of the booster leads fails to provide an energy transfer to the warhead explosive for warhead explosive detonation.

The fuse of the present invention incorporates a safety mechanism that segregates booster leads in units that are individually ineffective for conducting an explosive event. As such accidental explosive events are unable to transfer through the booster leads. Operational or purposeful explosive events are able to transfer through the booster leads by combining the individual booster leads together to form a diameter greater than the explosive failure diameter of the particular booster lead explosive composition.

In an exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a safe and arming fuse system for weapon systems containing insensitive main charge explosives. The fuse mechanisms of the present invention divide booster leads into separate units that are individually ineffective for conducting an explosive event through the length of the booster lead. Segregation of the booster lead units from one another isolates these units so that the individual booster segments are unable to transfer or propagate an explosive event into the main charge of the warhead that is a critical diameter also referred to as a failure diameter is not met and thus the diameter of each individual booster segment alone is considered too small to exceed the critical failure diameter. In particular the critical diameter must be exceeded for the system to function properly that is below the diameter of a specific cross sectional area in an exemplary circular embodiment the system will not propagate the explosive event. The critical diameter depends on or is the property of the type of explosive material itself. While the individual booster segments remain individually separated when the fuse is subjected to conditions that would normally promote an explosive reaction through the booster lead such as an accidental dropping exposure to fire etc. the explosive event is incapable of continuing through the length of the booster lead units. This configuration provides a fuse design that makes the warhead less vulnerable to thermal cookoff mishandling fragment attack or other such stimuli. As such accidental detonations of the main charge do not occur while the booster lead is placed in a safe condition i.e. the booster lead units are isolated. The weapon system may be armed to allow detonation of the main charge by combining the unitized booster leads together in a manner that increases the diameter of the combined booster leads to greater than the failure critical diameter of the particular type of explosive s constituting the booster leads that is the critical diameter is exceeded. Once the booster lead units are combined the explosive event can transfer through the booster lead ending in an operational explosive event of the main charge. Importantly this embodiment of the invention eliminates the need for a booster pellet made of secondary explosive. When combined with a new 1.6 explosive the present invention provides a safe arming mechanism of warheads that is less vulnerable to fragment attack and cook off. Additionally the fuse decreases warhead vulnerability for warheads not using 1.6 explosives.

Referring to a side view of a weapon system not completely shown includes a warhead fuse of the present invention showing both a safe mode and armed mode. A warhead explosive along the train of the warhead fuse generally includes a booster charge or main booster charge such as PBXN 113 AFX 757 or other 1.6S materials. A preliminary booster charge may be useful for initiation of the main booster charge . As further shown in the warhead fuse includes a warhead detonator that is sufficiently powerful to initiate detonation of an adjacent booster lead also referred to as a combined booster lead .

As seen in the safe mode representation of and in the warhead fuse maintains a safe condition while the combined booster lead has been separated into booster lead units or individual booster lead segments A and B with C and D behind see . The booster lead units A D are separated or isolated from each other through a separation device . In this configuration each of the individual booster lead segments A D also referred to herein as the plurality of booster lead segments of the combined booster lead has a restricted diameter. The restricted diameter of each booster segment A D is less than the failure critical diameter of the combined component booster lead explosive that is the diameter formed by combining the plurality of individual booster lead segments A D. For a cylindrical explosive charge the charge must be over a given diameter called the failure critical diameter for a detonation to propagate. This feature also applies to other geometries for square stock there is a certain width thickness needed etc. Failure diameter includes specified diameters of an explosive component necessary for conducting an explosive event through the length of the explosive i.e. failure diameter is the minimum diameter of material needed to propagate a detonation wave. Failure diameter calculations are well known in the explosives art with failure diameter D of a line or length of an explosive being the minimum diameter in which a steady self sustaining detonation wave can be propagated. For diameters smaller than D any attempt to generate such a steady wave will fail i.e. it will result in a shockwave that quickly decays to zero strength. For example United States Statutory Invention Registration nos. H1078 and H1304 both to Norris et al. describe the failure diameter of CL 14 for small booster and large main charge applications. A booster lead separating device is used to separate and effectively isolate the individual booster lead segments A and B from each other and or other booster lead segments C D etc. of the fuse . The booster lead separating device disperses each of the individual booster lead segments A D to effectively isolate the booster lead segments A D from one another to maintain the failure diameter of the booster lead segments A D. Effective separation and isolation of the booster lead segments A D includes having the booster lead segments A D parted in a manner where an explosive event within one of the booster lead segments does not transfer into another booster lead segment to detonate the warhead explosive .

The number of divisions of the booster lead into booster lead segments A D may include any appropriate number that allows for segregating the individual booster lead segments A D from each other and for controlling the individual booster lead segments A D to maintain failure diameter of each unit. Representative numbers of individual booster lead segments A D include for example from about 2 to 10 booster leads and for example more particularly from about 2 to 6 booster leads and for example even more particularly from about 2 to 4 booster leads. In an embodiment the booster lead segments A D are configured to longitudinally abut each other along a surface area when they are merged together. Generally as each individual booster lead segment A D abuts another individual booster lead segment the booster lead segments A D are joined along a planar surface where the abutting of the booster leads maximizes the adjoining surface area and diameter of the combined units. The individual booster lead segments A D may include any appropriate configuration such as shape configurations that include cross sectional pie shape square rectangular and or combinations thereof. In an exemplary embodiment the booster lead segments A D individually form a pie section that together form a pie shape configuration.

The booster lead separating device may include compression tensioning and other like devices for fixing the relative position of the booster lead segments A D relative to one another with a representative tensioning device for separating the individual booster lead segments A D shown in . illustrates a solenoid or piston mechanism for arming the fuse system of the present invention. Representative tensioning devices include for example spring piston and or solenoid operating mechanisms configured to apply a force onto or away from the individual booster lead segments A D to separate them. As seen in the mechanical system of springs pistons or solenoids force multiple booster leads A D of a cap sensitive explosive together to form a combined shape such as a cylinder see . With the booster lead segments A D divided accidental detonation within the individual booster lead units A D fails to detonate the warhead explosive that is preliminary booster charge and main booster charge because the booster lead segments prevent the accidental explosive event from transferring an effective amount of energy through the booster lead and into the warhead explosive . Once the booster lead segments A D are combined as shown in the armed mode of the diameter of the resulting lead becomes greater than both the critical diameter of booster lead explosive and the critical diameter of a 1.6 main charge explosive. The failure diameter for a 1.6S explosive can be small and tests have shown that a detonation wave will propagate for example in a 0.375 inch thick square of PBXN 113 explosive. As such a preliminary booster of for example PBXN 113 may be used initiate the main booster charge having another 1.6 explosive of still larger failure diameter.

In an embodiment shown in the tensioning device includes a spring mechanism. This configuration and other configurations may further include an independent merging device for consolidating the booster lead segments A D together such as a rotating tubular mechanism that forces the booster lead segments A D together as two parts of the device are rotated relative to each other. As seen in the end view representation of the fuse is changed from a safe mode to an armed mode with the rotation that forces the booster lead segments A D to merge into the booster lead having a diameter larger than the failure diameter of the composition of the booster lead .

Additionally the fuse may further include one or more energy absorbing material between the booster lead segments A D and warhead explosive . The energy absorbing material also referred to as attenuating material may include separate energy absorbing materials present for each of the individual booster lead segments A D. The attenuating material may include those materials solid gas liquid used to absorb dampen attenuate block reduce dissipate eliminate redirect reflect divert delay isolate impede or otherwise decreases effects of the shock produced by one explosive on any surrounding structure including another explosive or another component. Representative examples include porous materials including porous solids or liquids being any material filled in part with compressible elements or a compressible volume e.g. vacuum gas or other material . As used here a compressible volume can be any volume that is filled with a compressible material or a vacuum. The attenuating characteristic of a porous material is related to its strength density and porosity. To achieve desirable attenuating characteristics a material should be high density and should have a significant volume of e.g. about 2 90 of highly compressible material gas vacuum solid liquid dispersed throughout the attenuating material preferably dispersed uniformly throughout the material. Porous liquids include aerated liquids which are liquids in which a gaseous phase coexists with a liquid phase. Porous liquids may also be aphron based liquids or liquids containing hollow spheres or other shells that are filled with gas or vacuum. Alternatively the porous material may also be a solid such as cement mixed with hollow microspheres such as that available under the tradename LITECRETE from Schlumberger Technology Corporation or other hollow spheres or shells epoxy mixed with hollow spheres or shells a honeycomb material and any other solid filled with a certain percentage of compressible volume. For porous materials adequate attenuating characteristics may include porosities of about 5 10 20 30 etc. and the like with proper porosities determinable by one skilled in the art through routine experimentation. In further embodiments instead of compressible volumes to fill pores of a porous solid a material that exhibits a phase change referred to as a phase change material may be used. Examples of phase change materials include bismuth and graphite. The attenuating material protects other explosives from shock waves generated by detonation of an explosive.

Steps for arming a fuse of an embodiment of the present invention are shown see . Separation of the individual booster lead segments A D using the booster lead separating device maintains the fuse in a safe mode. The individual booster lead segments A D are combined by releasing or reversing the tension exerted by the booster lead separating device forming a singular unit booster lead that constitutes a combined diameter of the booster lead segments A D that is greater than the failure diameter of the booster lead explosive. The now armed fuse may be subjected to an initiating event for detonation of the warhead explosive which produces a detonated warhead explosion. The individual booster lead segments A D may be combined at any appropriate timing for the arming of the warhead for operational use such as combining the plurality of booster lead segments to allow detonation to occur within time periods to maximize the safety of the weapon until detonation while allowing effective arming of the weapon. Such times may include for example within ten minute five minutes one minute etc. of the detonation of the warhead explosive such as 45 seconds 30 seconds 15 seconds etc. and greater intermediate or lesser times with optimal times determinable by those skilled in the art in light of the disclosure herein considering such factors as the type of weapon launch platform servicing conditions and other such factors that may be applicable to safety and effective detonation of a given weapon. Accidental explosive events to a warhead are prevented using the fuse of the present invention and maintaining the fuse in a safe mode until operational use of the weapon system is desired. By maintaining the position of the booster lead segments A D using the booster lead separating device thereby maintaining the diameter of each of the booster lead segments less than its corresponding failure diameter detonation of any of the booster lead segments A D fails to provide an energy transfer to the warhead explosive for warhead explosive detonation.

Another exemplary embodiment is a plurality of booster leads that are large enough in diameter to detonate but individually shorter than that required to initiate the booster charge . The booster segments have increasing diameter from the warhead detonator with the diameter of only the last segment C exceeding the failure diameter of booster charge for additional protection from accidental initiation of the warhead explosive . In the Safe Mode as shown in the warhead detonator and individual booster lead segments A B and C are in disks A B and C respectively that maintain each component out of line with any component preceding or following it. In the Armed Mode as shown in the disks are rotated so that all components are in line for initiation of the booster charge .

Yet another exemplary embodiment is for all booster lead segments A B C D to be contact with booster charge but smaller than its failure diameter as illustrated in . The simultaneous detonation of all booster lead segments is required to create coalescing shock waves that can initiate booster charge . Each booster segment in disk A has a warhead detonator in disk that is out of line when in the Safe Mode as shown in for additional protection from accidental initiation of the warhead explosive . When armed as shown in the disks and A are rotated so that the detonators are in line with and can directly initiate the leads. As illustrated in exemplary embodiment in disks and A may have the detonators and lead segments always aligned if those detonators are slappers which contain no explosive and require a high energy electrical pulse to vaporize a metallic conductor that drives a small disk into the end of the booster lead segment. Such a detonator will not function from hazards such as fragments from another warhead. The process for initiating booster charge by the exemplary embodiments in is summarized in .

An example of an exemplary embodiment may be incorporated in fuse mechanisms that have additional safe arming features such as multiple point initiation systems.

A booster lead is formed of 4 equal pie shaped sections. The booster lead is composed of CL 14 and has a diameter of three fourth of an inch. Each pie shaped section has a width of one half the diameter of the booster lead or three eighths of an inch. As the failure diameter of CL 14 is slightly less than one half inch the booster lead is effectively armed when the pie shaped sections are combined.

The foregoing summary description and examples of the present invention are not intended to be limiting but are only exemplary of the inventive features which are defined in the claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

