---

title: System and method for knowledge research
abstract: Knowledge research and mapping system and method automatically construct a knowledge research map representing the researched topics, their inter-relationships, and related responses retrieved through the processing of, for example, a natural language or Boolean query that is automatically submitted via a knowledge search tool to a database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311999&OS=08311999&RS=08311999
owner: Invention Machine Corporation
number: 08311999
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100312
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from co pending commonly owned U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 160 026 titled System and Method for Knowledge Research filed Mar. 13 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application while not claiming priority to may be related to the following United States patent application U.S. Pat. No. 7 251 781 filed Jul. 31 2002 titled Computer Based Summarization of Natural Language Documents published as U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 20030130837 on Jul. 10 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 308 886 titled Computer Based Summarization of Natural Language Documents filed Jul. 31 2001. These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates to systems and methods of automatic knowledge search for access to information stored in computer based database systems. More specifically the present application relates to the navigation of information networks and the automatic capture of the research thought processes in an interactive knowledge search environment.

During the history of information technology it has been a struggle to organize and understand ever increasing volumes of data. While many developments have been made in the area of Relational Database Systems and Business Intelligence Systems to help in the management of structured data the domain of unstructured and heterogeneous data management is still extremely inefficient. Keyword search technology remains the predominant access model. Recent advances in semantic technology have yielded improvements in the accuracy and relevance of information retrieved by such search operations.

However the paradigm of search remains poorly suited to the needs of a researcher. Researchers issue queries and receive results but in many cases the results are overwhelming in number and much time must be invested in sifting through results to find the pieces of specifically important information. illustrates a user interface for retrieving query results using a conventional keyword search application. Specifically in a Google search is illustrated. A keyword namely roller bearing is entered into a search box . When the Search button is selected a list of results for roller bearing is returned.

Knowledge visualization technology has been developed to help the user better understand the scope and content of result sets. Similarly ontologically oriented systems of access such as the semantic web attempt to provide guidance to the researcher through the exposure of a navigational taxonomy that allows the user to select subsets of information based on taxonomical terms. illustrates a user interface for data visualization as an example of a knowledge visualization tool. Specifically in a Grokker search is illustrated. A keyword namely roller bearing is entered into a search box . When the Search button Grok is selected search results returned for roller bearing are displayed in a Map View. 

These conventional navigational systems suffer from a deficiency in that taxonomy is removed from a researcher s intent of analysis. This creates a gap of understanding that the researcher must bridge in order to effectively benefit from the presented view of information.

Another key deficiency with conventional search technologies is their transactional nature. Each search is a completely independent event and there is no persistent information that links events in a research session. This independence of actions is inherently inconsistent with the researcher s intent.

Often researchers use search technologies not for the purpose of issuing a single query but for the purpose of delving into a subject area through a series of search requests that are related through the researcher s intent. Current search and concept retrieval tools lack the ability to maintain this connection in a meaningful way. As a result the research worker must specifically record and track the relationships between related search requests and their generated result sets. This process is very tedious time consuming and subject to error if the researcher neglects to capture any part of the process.

In accordance with various aspects of the present invention provided are computer based methods and systems for providing automated knowledge research and mapping capabilities.

In one embodiment database knowledge search tools are augmented by the inclusion of research locus change identification capabilities and user intent based results with filtering capabilities such that when a query is submitted it is automatically classified by its relationship to recent queries and query results are filtered and presented to the researcher in a framework based on the domain of research. In this embodiment user interactions with the result set are also identified as indicators of user intent. The submitted query is processed as a query to one or more databases and responses to this query from the databases are automatically provided the responses being filtered in accordance with the categorization of key subject matter as defined by a knowledge domain concept map. Specific filtered responses are arranged for presentation to the user. A machine representation of a user s research process can be automatically generated from the query relationship classification and other user intent indicators such as the issuance of a sub query or the selection and saving of a specific result.

In accordance with aspects of the invention different domains of research will suggest different user concept maps and result in different result presentation models.

Similarly the submitted query foiinats will preferably vary with the knowledge search technologies applied. For example a natural language query may be used for search engines using semantic algorithms and a keyword query may be used for less sophisticated engines.

In accordance with aspects of the invention there are a number of specific techniques which may be used to perform the classification of a specific query s relationship to prior queries such techniques can include the extracting of key properties from the specific query to create a query profile and comparing the query profile with the profiles of prior queries.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention provided is a computer based method of knowledge research and mapping. The method includes providing at least one computer processor coupled to at least one non transitory storage medium. The at least one computer processor is arranged to perform a set of processing tasks including receiving a query related to a domain of research storing the query in a research knowledge map in the at least one computer storage medium automatically submitting the query to one or more knowledge bases filtering one or more responses to the query into response relationship subsets and linking one or more of the responses from the response relationship subsets to the stored query in the research knowledge map. The knowledge map provides interrelated information for one or more queries within the domain of research.

The method can further include generating the research knowledge map using an entity relationship model comprising entity relationship entity triplets including representing topics determined from the one or more queries as entities and determining relationships between entities from an informational taxonomy.

The entities representing one or more queries can have linked to them one or more responses to the queries.

The response relationship subsets can be classified as sub groups of the one or more responses to the query that are related through a common relationship of information taxonomy with the query.

Submitting the query to one or more knowledge bases can include submitting the query to a knowledge search engine and automatically formatting the query to be compatible with the knowledge search engine.

The knowledge search engine can include a semantic indexing and search tool and the one or more knowledge bases can include a semantic analysis knowledge base.

The knowledge bases can include one or more knowledge bases selected from a group consisting of one or more locally accessible knowledge bases one or more knowledge bases containing corporate knowledge and one or more publicly accessible knowledge bases.

The method can further include recording user interactions during a research session related to the query and storing machine representations of the user interactions in the research knowledge map.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a knowledge research and mapping system. The system includes at least one computer processor coupled to at least one non transitory storage medium. The system further includes a query input module that receives a query related to a domain of research stores the query in a research knowledge map and submits the query to one or more knowledge bases. The system further includes a results presenter that filters one or more responses to the query into response relationship subsets and a research event recorder that links one or more responses from the response relationship subsets to the stored query in the research knowledge map. The knowledge map provides interrelated information for one or more queries within the domain of research.

The at least one processor can generate the research knowledge map using an entity relationship model comprising entity relationship entity triplets such that topics determined from the one or more queries are represented as entities and relationships between entities are determined based on an infoiniational taxonomy.

The entities representing one or more queries can have linked to them one or more responses to the queries.

The response relationship subsets can be classified as sub groups of the one or more responses to the query that can be related through a common relationship of information taxonomy with the query.

The query input module can submit the query to a knowledge search engine and format the query to be compatible with the knowledge search engine.

The knowledge search engine can include a semantic indexing and search tool and the one or more knowledge bases can include a semantic analysis knowledge base.

The knowledge bases can include one or more knowledge bases selected from a group consisting of one or more locally accessible knowledge bases one or more knowledge bases containing corporate knowledge and one or more publicly accessible knowledge bases.

The research event recorder can record user interactions during a research session related to the query and store machine representations of the user interactions in the research knowledge map.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a computer program product having computer executable instructions stored in at least one non transitory computer readable medium which perform a method of knowledge research and mapping when executed by at least one processor. The method includes providing at least one computer processor coupled to at least one non transitory storage medium. The at least one computer processor receives a query related to a domain of research stores the query in a research knowledge map in the at least one computer storage medium automatically submits the query to one or more knowledge bases filters one or more responses to the query into response relationship subsets and links one or more of the responses from the response relationship subsets to the stored query in the research knowledge map. The knowledge map provides interrelated information for one or more queries within the domain of research.

The method can further include generating the research knowledge map using an entity relationship model comprising entity relationship entity triplets including representing topics determined from the one or more queries as entities and determining relationships between entities from an informational taxonomy.

Hereinafter aspects of the present invention will be described by explaining illustrative embodiments in accordance therewith with reference to the attached drawings. While describing these embodiments detailed descriptions of well known items functions or configurations are typically omitted for conciseness.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These teems are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the present invention enhance the use of various knowledge search tools by providing the ability to readily understand the context of the user s research and capture the process of research steps preformed by the user. This enhancement is provided by for example the ability to see a visualization of the high level topics of interest researched by the user and the conceptual relationships that exist between those topics.

System can be implemented using one or more properly configured computers for example including one or more computer processors and data storage devices as well as input and output mechanisms or devices as described above. which are described below depict computers at a high level and system could be implemented using on or more of such computers.

In one exemplary embodiment the Query Input Module may provide an interactive query entry form or field for query submission by a user e.g. via a computer display screen. In another exemplary embodiment a programmatic interface may be provided to allow query submissions originating from other automated systems. The Query Input Module supplies the received query to the Knowledge Search Engine and the Research Event Recorder for processing. The Knowledge Search Engine processes the query and retrieves result sets from the searchable Databases . The searchable Databases include machine readable stores of information from which results are to be retrieved and can be collocated or remote to each other.

The Research Event Recorder analyzes queries to determine their significance in the user s research session and the appropriate form of representation in the Knowledge Research Map . The Research Event Recorder also records the information in the Knowledge Research Map . The Results Presenter filters the result sets from the Knowledge Search Engine to classify the results according to the research domain taxonomy of research questions and records selected result information in the Knowledge Research Map . The Knowledge Research Map also includes machine representations of user interactions that have been identified by the Research Event Recorder and results which have been stored by the Results Presenter as well as relationships between these interactions and stored results. The Research Reporter transforms the interactions stored results and relationship information from the Knowledge Research Map into a form which is readable and useful to the user which can by presented via an output device such as a computer screen as an example.

Referring to A and B an input query is received by an Input Processor of Query Input Module at processing step Receive Query S. The received query of S is processed in two operational sequences which may be pursued either serially or in parallel. The received query of processing step S is provided to a Query Search Processor of the Query Input Module which in processing step S issues the query to the Knowledge Search Engine . Knowledge Search Engine searches at least one Database for example a semantically indexed database for information relevant to the query to create a set of results. In this embodiment a Result Fetcher of the Knowledge Search Engine obtains the results for the issued query from the Databases in processing step S.

A Filter of the Results Presenter filters results by domain and reformulates the obtained results into sets of classified results in processing step S. A domain can be determined from analysis e.g. semantic analysis of the received query and perhaps earlier processed queries or user actions in the current search session. A Filtered Result Presenter of the Results Presenter presents the filtered results in processing step S. The Filtered Result Presenter delivers the classified results to the user and provides an interactive model for the user to identify specific results of interest. For example the classified results to the issued query including the interactive model may be automatically provided to a user in a graphical or text format via a computer display e.g. see . A Result Capturer of the Results Presenter stores results of interest in a machine readable form in processing step S. Specifically the Result Capturer captures results of interest in the Knowledge Research Map . An interest level of the results or results of interest may be determined from the user s interaction with the sets of classified results e.g. more or longer interaction can mean higher interest.

Additionally the received query of processing step S is also provided to a Query Profiler of the Research Event Recorder . The Query Profiler analyzes the query to identify key elements of the query and generates a query profile in processing step S. Key elements of the query may be determined by for example semantic analysis of the query e.g. what are the Subject Action and Object of the query . A query profile is a representation of the query that includes the key elements.

A Query Relation Calculator of the Research Event Recorder compares the key elements of the analyzed query with previously processed queries to determine the relationship of the analyzed query to previously processed queries in processing step S. There are a number of specific techniques which may be used to perform the classification of a specific query s relationship to prior queries such techniques can include the steps of extracting key elements from the specific query to create the query profile in processing step S and comparing the query profile with profiles of the prior queries in processing step S. A Query Capturer of the Research Event Recorder records the analyzed query and its relationship to prior queries in a machine readable form in processing step S. The recorded queries query relationship information and results of interest are assembled from their machine readable forms to create the generated Knowledge Research Map in processing step S. The Knowledge Research Map which may then be automatically provided to a user in a graphical or text format e.g. via a computer display. The processing described with respect to may all be done automatically by a computer in response to a received query.

As indicated above the Knowledge Search Engine is used to extract information from databases. The Knowledge Search Engine includes one or more knowledge search tools. Knowledge search tools also commonly referred to as search engines or database query tools facilitate the efficient access to information stored in computer based database systems. When applicable a knowledge search tool and a database to be searched by it are defined herein as a knowledge base. The user is able to locate relevant information by presenting a properly constructed query in an appropriate form for example a natural language or Boolean expression to the knowledge search tool which searches the database and obtains results. The knowledge search tool responds to the entered query by constructing a result set comprising a list of information that meets the relevancy criteria imposed by the knowledge search tool. An example of such a knowledge search tool is a computer based system called Goldfire Intelligence marketed by Invention Machine Corporation Boston Mass. The technology used in this tool is partially described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 370 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments described herein utilize semantic indexing and search technology described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 370 for the purpose of performing knowledge searches. However in alternative embodiments other knowledge search tools may be used.

The Query Input Module provides queries to the Knowledge Search Engine for the extraction of information from databases. In one embodiment the user supplies a query to the Query Input Module through an interactive interface e.g. a keyboard mouse and display or screen. In another embodiment a query is supplied to the Query Input Module by a software application through the use of a programmatic interface.

The results extracted from databases are processed by the Results Presenter . The Results Presenter filters each result based on the classification of conceptual relationships between the result and query to which the result was a response. The conceptual relationship is a derivative of a domain of research of the research session which can be represented as a concept map as in .

A domain of research is a categorization of a knowledge domain that a user may be engaged in while using an application or system in accordance with aspects of the present invention. Other research domains may represent topic areas such as travel shopping entertainment and media sports social networking or any other of a variety of general or specialized interest. That is the present invention is not inherently limited to any particular research domain.

In the present embodiment the Results Presenter of uses meta data tagging to identify the one or more research domain relationships with which a result to a query is associated. Such meta data grouping allows efficient sub grouping of query results. The generated sub groups are meaningful to the user by virtue of their intrinsic relevance in the domain of research.

The present exemplary embodiments use semantic technology to generate result meta data tags however other techniques of meta data tagging may be used to associate result data with research domain relationships. Such other meta data tagging approaches include those known in the art so not discussed in detail herein.

In the term Battery system was entered into search field and the button Find was selected. This action caused presentation of filtered result sets that identify some of the relationship classifications relevant to the engineering device attribute domain namely Definitions Advantages Applications More Specific Disadvantages More General Similarities Location and Differences as examples. Boxes and represent other relationship classifications relevant to the domain. Alternatively fewer more or different relationship classifications may be used.

Next to the title of each relationship classification a number appears in parenthesis. This number indicates the number of results in the relationship classification which are also listed below the title in each box. For example in Definitions there are 15 results which are listed beneath Definitions 15 . Next to each result is also a number in parenthesis. This number indicates a number of entries or responses found for the given result. For example in Definitions the number 1 appears to the left of part of integrated circuit which indicates there is only one response related to the part of integrated circuit result.

Referring again to the Research Event Recorder identifies and stores user interaction data such user interaction data can include each query and its relationship to prior queries in the research session. These data are stored in the Knowledge Research Map . The resulting Knowledge Research Map includes an entity relationship model composed of entity relationship entity triplets such that the entities represent query topics and the relationships represent the relationship in the informational taxonomy through which the query was generated. In the example the Part of relationship is a member of the informational taxonomy of the engineering device attribute research domain.

The identification of the relationship between Knowledge Research Map entities may occur via different methods that are specific to the method of user interaction.

In one embodiment submitting a new query based on a selected result from the current query will result in the relationship between the current query and the new query as being designated by the relationship category of the filtered result set sub group to which the selected result belongs. Referring again to a button is a query submission button. When the button is selected the associated result Elimination of need for daily charging batteries is submitted as a new query. Since this result was selected from the filtered result set Advantages the relationship of Advantage is established between the two queries. That is it is established that Elimination of need for daily charging batteries is a possible advantage of some Battery system see also . Other methods of explicit action interpretation to establish query relationships may be employed.

In another embodiment directly submitted queries are analyzed and their relationships to prior queries are computed algorithmically. In box is a user editable field in which the user may enter a new query directly. When a Find button is selected the user s query is recognized by the Query Input Module and provided to the Research Event Recorder see . A query profile is generated comprising attributes of the query. The new query profile can be compared to one or more prior query profiles to determine the relationship of the new query to each of the one or more prior queries. It may be determined that the new query is a rephrasing of a prior query the new query is directed to a new topic related to the current query by a relationship concept from the research domain or that the new query is entirely unrelated to any of the one or more prior queries. A closest fit query can be selected from the one or more prior queries.

The Research Event Recorder links queries that are re phrasings of the closest fit query to the closest fit query entity in the Knowledge Research Map . The Research Event Recorder identifies a new topic related to the closest fit query as a new element for inclusion in the Knowledge Research Map and generates a new entity relationship entity triplet to capture the linkage between the closest fit and new query entities. The Research Event Recorder will identify unrelated queries but will not link these new queries to other entities in the present exemplary embodiment.

The classification of new queries as rephrasing related or unrelated may be accomplished through different mechanisms. In embodiments using semantic technology the subject action and object properties of a natural language query may be extracted and compared. Based on the change in the subject action object structure of the natural language expression the degree of change in the query can be calculated and this measure of difference can be used to designate the new query into one of the classifications. Alternative methods of calculating query distance may be used to determine the query relationship classification. Word ontologies synonym dictionaries and similar word relation information may be used to recognize re phrasings.

As indicated above users may select specific query results to identify that the selected result is of special interest. When such a result selection is made through interaction with the Results Presenter e.g. through the display the designated result is linked to the active query entity in the Knowledge Research Map .

Various types of knowledge bases may be accessed in response to a query and these knowledge bases may be resident in various places. For example shows a Search in drop down menu that can be used to select specific knowledge bases for searching or All knowledge bases can be search as is shown. One set of knowledge bases may be contained in the user s own computer memory or portable memory devices such as CDs that may accessed at the user s location. Another set of knowledge bases is called a Corporate Knowledge Base which may typically be on one or more servers resident or privately accessible to users within the organization such as a corporation. Another set of knowledge bases is publicly accessible search engines and databases such as Google a search engine and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent collection a searchable database .

Graphical elements represent query topics or entities that have the loci of search activities during a research session. Specifically graphical element represents a Power Switch graphical element represents a Battery system graphical element represents the advantage of Elimination of need for daily charging of battery graphical element represents a Hybrid vehicle. The connecting lines represent the relationships between the query entities. Each connecting line has a sense of directionality associated with it indicated by the arrow heads at one end of each connecting line. These connecting lines inform the user of the history and intent of their research activities. For example the connecting line between the graphical elements and indicates that the user had been examining the topic of Power Switch and then subsequently began to examine the topic of Battery System having found that the concept Battery System was related to the Power Switch concept by a Part of relationship. For example a power switch may be a part of a battery system.

As mentioned above a Part of relationship is a member of the informational taxonomy of the engineering device attribute domain where the identification of the relationship between Knowledge Research Map entities may occur via different methods that are specific to the method of user interaction. Here the Part of relationship is merely an example. Similarly the connecting line indicates that entity namely Elimination of need for daily charging of the battery is an Advantage of entity which is another form of relationship. Many other types of relationships could exist between entities in a Knowledge Research Map .

A further example of a benefit of knowledge search and mapping system including the enhancement to existing knowledge search tools is the ability to automatically identify and capture shifts in the locus of research or results of interest as indicated by the user s interaction with a presented result set.

In various embodiments the user may use the rendered Knowledge Research Map as a navigational device to change the current locus of research. In box enclosing the entity indicates that the topic represented by entity namely Elimination of need for daily charging of the battery is the current locus of research. In this example the action of selecting e.g. via a clicking action in the user interface the Power Switch entity would result in the locus of research being changed to the topic of Power Switch . Other embodiments could use other modes of navigational interaction as is appropriate for the method of Knowledge Research Map rendering.

As illustrated in box is a user editable field in which the user may enter a new query directly. In a new query namely Hybrid vehicle is entered into a search box . When Find button is selected the new query is submitted. In the new entity namely Hybrid vehicle is related to the entity . Specifically entity is an Advantage of entity wherein Advantage is the relationship between the two query entities. In some embodiment the use could also select the Hybrid vehicle icon to submit the new query.

Embodiments in accordance with aspects of the present invention may be implemented in specially configured computer systems such as the computer system illustrated in . is an architecture diagram for an embodiment of a computer implementation in accordance with aspects of the present invention. The computer system of may include processing elements a display an input device and a link to databases or other computer readable storage media that provide the necessary information to provide responses to queries. Embodiments may also be provided by computer executable instructions resident on one or more computers and executable by one or more microprocessors microcontrollers or other processing devices. The computer executable instructions for executing the system and method may be resident in memory in the processing devices or may be provided to the processing devices by floppy disks hard disks compact disk CDs digital versatile disks DVDs read only memory ROM or any other non transitory storage medium. Additionally the system may access one or more other computers database systems etc. over a network such as one or more of the Internet and World Wide Web intranets extranets virtual private networks or other networks.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that applications functional modules and or processors described herein can include hardware software firmware or some combination thereof. To the extent software or computer program code sometimes referred to as an application is used in various embodiments it may be stored on or in any of a variety of non transitory storage devices or media and executed by one or more processors to achieve explicit implicit and or inherent functions of the systems and methods described herein. Such storage devices or media and such processors can be collocated or remote to each other whether logically or physically.

As used herein unless otherwise indicated a computer can take the form of any known or hereafter developed device that includes at least one processor and storage media. For example referring to a computer or computer system can include a server personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer portable music device personal computer cell phone workstation not shown mainframe not shown or the like or some combination thereof. Such devices may include one or more input devices which may include a keypad or keyboard microphone video camera touch screen and the like as examples. Such devices may also include one or more output devices which may include a video screen e.g. computer cell phone or PDA screen touch screen image projection system speaker printer and the like as examples. In some embodiments a data port may also be considered an input device output device or both. In some embodiments a variety of user devices may interact with a knowledge search and mapping system hosted on computer which can be accessible via the Internet as an example.

To the extent any elements described herein are remote to each other they may communicate and or exchange information over any of a variety of known or hereafter developed networks e.g. local area networks wide area networks virtual private networks intranets computer based social networks cable networks cellular networks the Internet the World Wide Web or some combination thereof.

According to aspects of the present invention since relevant knowledge acquired in the process of research includes not only the specific facts that may be located via a knowledge search tool but also the contextual relationship of facts to both submitted queries and other facts the scope and history of the research exploration the research locus change identification and recording and the user intent based results filtering capabilities the knowledge search tool presents immediate and compelling benefits to the user. A new paradigm of research activity is enabled wherein the user is able to engage in dialogue with the universe of available knowledge accessible through selected knowledge bases the dialogue effected through a series of queries. According to the interaction model of the present invention the implicit information about contextual relationships and research scope and history is captured and available to a user. The availability of this information results in greater research productivity and effectiveness as the user is able to understand the context of information in a way that increases overall understanding of research data.

The foregoing Detailed Description of exemplary and preferred embodiments is presented for purposes of illustration. The disclosure of embodiment herein is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form s described but only to enable others skilled in the art to understand how the invention may be suited for a particular use or implementation.

The possibility of modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. No limitation is intended by the description of exemplary embodiments which may have included tolerances feature dimensions specific operating conditions engineering specifications or the like and which may vary between implementations or with changes to the state of the art and no limitation should be implied therefrom.

This disclosure has been made with respect to the current state of the art but also contemplates advancements and that adaptations in the future may take into consideration of those advancements namely in accordance with the then current state of the art. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims as written and equivalents as applicable. Reference to a claim element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated. Moreover no element component nor method or process step in this disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or step is explicitly recited in the Claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Sec. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . . . and no method or process step herein is to be construed under those provisions unless the step or steps are expressly recited using the phrase step s for . . . 

It is therefore understood that various modifications may be made and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

