---

title: Filtered cigarette possessing tipping material
abstract: A filtered cigarette possesses a smokable rod and a filter element. The smokable rod is secured to the filter element using tipping material. The cigarette possesses more than one layer of tipping material. An outer layer of tipping material can overlie at least a portion of an underlying inner layer of tipping material, and during use by the smoker, the outer layer can be removed from the cigarette. Thus, it is possible for a cigarette manufacturer to provide a cigarette that can be used as such by the smoker, or that can be adapted by the smoker to provide a different sensory experience (e.g., the visual, organoleptic, trigeminal, aromatic, and tactile characteristics of the cigarette can be altered by removal of the outer tipping material). Alternatively, the use of the outer layer of tipping material can be used to improve the physical integrity of the cigarette.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307788&OS=09307788&RS=09307788
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 09307788
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100803
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 462 505 filed Aug. 4 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 789 089 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz PCT Publication No. WO 2006 064371 to Banerjea and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 932 filed Sep. 14 2005 to Coleman III et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper in order to provide a so called filtered cigarette. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter or mouth end of the cigarette.

Various attempts to alter the visual attributes of cigarettes have been proposed. For example there have been attempts to alter the color of the wrapping materials that provide the wrapping material of the tobacco rod e.g. cigarettes marketed under the tradename More by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company possess cigarette rod wrapping papers exhibiting a brown color and tipping materials used to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element e.g. tipping materials have been printed so as to possess a cork appearance and or to possess at least one circumscribing ring . In addition there have been attempts to alter the general appearance of the filter elements of cigarettes. See for example the types of cigarette filter element formats configurations and designs set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 596 663 to Schultz 4 508 525 to Berger 4 646 763 to Nichols 4 655 736 to Keith 4 726 385 to Chummy Jr. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and 5 025 814 to Raker and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 377 630 filed Mar. 16 2006 to Crooks et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose manners and methods for the placement of a flavor containing pellet in each cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. 4 281 671 to Byrne 4 643 205 to Redding et al. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. 4 715 390 to Nichols et al. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. 4 768 526 to Pryor 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. 5 387 285 to Rivers and 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. See also the types of cigarette filter technologies that are discussed in the background art section set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

It would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance his her smoking experience such as can be accomplished by providing a filtered cigarette possessing a filter element end having particular design features. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing filter end components that are employed in a manner such that the visual appearance of the cigarette is aesthetically pleasing. It also would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing selected design features that can be modified or otherwise controlled. In addition it would be desirable to provide a filter element for a cigarette that is capable of enhancing the sensory attributes of the cigarette during use.

The present invention relates to filtered cigarettes. A representative cigarette possesses a smokable rod and a filter element. The smokable rod which contains filler material e.g. tobacco cut filler intended to be burned to yield drawn mainstream tobacco smoke is connected or otherwise secured to the filter element using tipping material. The cigarette possesses more than one layer of tipping material. For example the cigarette can possess an outer layer of tipping material that overlies at least a portion of an underlying inner layer of tipping material and during use by the person desiring to smoke the cigarette the outer layer can be removed therefrom. Thus it is possible for a cigarette manufacturer to provide a single cigarette that can be used as such by the smoker or that can be easily adapted by the smoker to provide a different sensory experience e.g. the visual organoleptic trigeminal aromatic and tactile characteristics of the cigarette can be altered by removal of the outer tipping material . Alternatively the use of the outer layer of tipping material can be used as a second layer of tipping material to further improve the physical integrity of the cigarette. In yet another regard outer tipping material possessing printed indicia e.g. information printed on the inner surface of a removable outer layer of tipping material can be used for marketing purposes e.g. to identify each individual cigarette for purposes of promotional or advertising campaigns or to identify cigarettes for purposes of discouraging counterfeiting .

Thus in one embodiment the invention provides a filtered cigarette comprising a smokable rod and a filter element having a mouth end terminus the smokable rod and filter element being secured to one another by a first tipping material that circumscribes the filter element along its longitudinal periphery and the smokable rod along a portion of its longitudinal periphery in a region thereof adjacent to the filter element the cigarette further comprising a second tipping material overlying at least a portion of first tipping material.

The two tipping materials can be substantially identical in overall dimension or the second tipping material can extends further along the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod than the first tipping material or the first tipping material can extend further along the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod than the second tipping material. Each of the first and second tipping materials can possess a series of air dilution perforations or only the inner tipping material can include such perforations.

In certain embodiments all or at least a portion of the second tipping material is removable from the cigarette. In certain applications the visual appearance tactile characteristics or other properties of the two tipping materials can differ such that removal of the second tipping material exposes the smoker to a different property such as a different flavor or aroma a different visual appearance or a different tactile characteristic.

The second tipping material can possess in certain embodiments features such as printed indicia on its inner face a perforated region adapted to facilitate removal of at least a portion of the second tipping material a tab region adapted for grasping for removal of at least a portion of the second tipping material or combinations thereof.

There are several ways in which the two tipping materials can be applied to the cigarette rod. For example the first tipping material and the second tipping material can be formed from a single piece of tipping material wrapped around the filter element. Alternatively the two tipping materials can be preformed as a tipping material laminate prior to application to the cigarette rod. For example the tipping material laminate can comprise a first layer of tipping material having a first edge and a second edge and a second layer of tipping material wherein the first layer and the second layer are offset such that when wrapped around a rod shaped object the first edge of the first layer of tipping material can overlie the second edge of the first layer of tipping material. The first edge of the first layer of tipping material can be coextensive with a first edge of the second layer of tipping material. Alternatively a first edge of the second layer of tipping material can extend beyond the first edge of the first layer of tipping material thereby forming a tab region of the second layer of tipping material.

In a further embodiment the second tipping material comprises a first region proximal to the smokable rod a second region remote from the smokable rod and a perforated region therebetween wherein one of the first and second regions is securely affixed to the first tipping material and the other of the first and second regions is configured to slidably engage the filter element upon perforation of the perforated region. The first region can be configured to slidably engage the filter element and the smokable rod and for example can include a flavoring agent adapted to alter the sensory characteristics of the cigarette before during or after smoking. In other embodiments the first region is formed of a non combustible material and is configured to extinguish the cigarette when slidably engaged with the smokable rod. Alternatively the second region is configured to slidably engage the filter element and extend beyond the mouth end terminus of the filter element.

In one preferred embodiment a filtered cigarette is provided comprising a smokable rod and a filter element having a mouth end terminus the smokable rod and filter element being secured to one another by a first tipping material that circumscribes the filter element along its longitudinal periphery and the smokable rod along a portion of its longitudinal periphery in a region thereof adjacent to the filter element the cigarette further comprising a second tipping material overlying at least a portion of first tipping material wherein the second tipping material includes a perforated region and a tab region adapted for grasping such that at least a portion of the second tipping material extending from the tab region to the perforated region is removable from the cigarette.

In another aspect the invention provides various methods for making the filtered cigarette described above. The methods typically include formation of cigarette rods such as two up cigarette rods including smokable rod portions and filter element portions in the same manner and using the same techniques known in the art. The methods further include applying at least two layers of tipping material to that cigarette. That is for example a filtered cigarette can be tipped using one layer of tipping material and then tipped again using a second layer of tipping material. In that regard the filtered cigarette can be wrapped twice using two separate pieces of tipping material or the filtered cigarette can be double wrapped using a single piece of tipping material of extended length. Another manner or method for manufacture of a representative filtered cigarette involves applying a layer of multi layered or laminated tipping material to that cigarette. That is for example a filtered cigarette can be tipped a single time using a dual layered or laminated tipping material so as to provide a cigarette tipped with a two layers of tipping material.

The present inventions now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawing. The invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used in this specification and the claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Although preferred embodiments of the invention include two layers of tipping material the invention also encompasses embodiments wherein three or more layers of tipping material are applied to the cigarette.

Referring to there are shown components of a smoking article in the form of a filtered cigarette. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material of the present invention. The rod is conventionally referred to as a smokable rod or tobacco rod . The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the other end is shown a filter element . The cigarette is shown as having one optional printed band printed on wrapping material and that band entirely circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band most preferably is applied to the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material but can be applied to the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette shown possesses wrapping material having one band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having spaced bands numbering two three or more. The band comprises additive materials of a coating formulation.

The cigarette normally includes a filter element or other suitable mouthpiece positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element has a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof is essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element are open to permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. plasticized cellulose acetate tow that is overwrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . The filter element can comprise two or more filter segments not shown and or flavor additives incorporated therein.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod by a first tipping material which circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The inner surface of the first tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive e.g. a water based adhesive of the type traditionally employed by cigarette manufacturers for application of tipping paper during filtered cigarette manufacture . That is the first tipping material extends around the longitudinally extending periphery of substantially the entire length of the plug wrap and a portion of the longitudinally extending periphery of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod in a region of the tobacco rod immediately adjacent to the filter element. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a plurality or series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap . Most preferably adhesive is applied to a longitudinally extending seam line or lap zone not shown of the first tipping material such as is conventionally employed during cigarette manufacture.

The cigarette also possesses a second tipping material . The second tipping material provides an outer layer that overlies and circumscribes the first tipping material . All or selected portions of the inner surface of the second tipping material can be fixedly secured to the outer surface of the inner or first tipping material . As such in preferred embodiments the second tipping material also overlies the entire length of the filter element and the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. For the embodiment shown in both tipping materials extend essentially equal distances along the region of the tobacco rod that is adjacent the filter element. For certain preferred cigarettes the first and second tipping materials each are substantially identical in overall dimension e.g. those tipping materials have comparable thicknesses widths and lengths . Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extends through the outer tipping material the inner tipping material and the plug wrap .

Adhesive can be applied in to each of the tipping materials using techniques generally similar to those employed conventionally for tipping material application during cigarette manufacture. In such a manner the two layers of tipping material can be applied and secured using conventional adhesives and application techniques and the cigarette so provided is used with both layers of tipping material attached thereto. However adhesive can be applied to a longitudinally extending seam line or lap zone not shown of the second tipping material . In such a manner the second tipping material is adapted and applied to the cigarette such that the second tipping material is purposefully removable from that cigarette. Thus the resulting filtered cigarette of acceptable quality can be employed by leaving the second tipping material intact while alternatively the second tipping material can be removed from the cigarette with the first tipping material acting to provide for the resulting altered filtered cigarette that also is of acceptable quality.

In one embodiment the outer or second tipping material which is not treated so as to provide for air dilution to the cigarette or which is treated in such a manner such that the cigarette does not experience a high degree or level of air dilution can be removed from the cigarette. As such the underlying or first tipping material which can be treated so as to provide for a relatively high level of dilution to the cigarette can be exposed by removal of the overlying second tipping to allow for a higher level of air dilution. As such the cigarette can be smoked with the second tipping material intact in order to provide for flavorful mainstream smoke or that second tipping material can be removed in order to provide air diluted mainstream smoke that is less flavorful in character.

A representative manner or method for providing such a cigarette involves suitable modification of the equipment and methodologies employed by cigarette manufacturers to provide so called banded cigarettes for consumer research purposes. That is rather than applying a circumscribing band e.g. a band of about 1 cm width around the cigarette in the general region where the tobacco rod and filter element abut one another a the second tipping material is applied as a circumscribing band over the entire length of the filter element and a portion of the length of the tobacco rod in a region of the tobacco rod adjacent to the filter element. As such there are provided filtered cigarettes possessing two layers of tipping material that are positioned applied and aligned in a predetermined desired fashion meaning the position and alignment of each layer of tipping material is predetermined by the manufacturer. Such equipment is particularly suitable for applying two appropriately aligned layers tipping material to a cigarette neither of which layer of tipping material is designed for the purpose of removal from the cigarette e.g. because adhesive can be applied over substantially the whole inner surface of the outer tipping material . As such the double tipped cigarette of the invention can exhibit improved physical integrity. Alternatively such equipment can be suitable for applying two appropriately aligned layers of tipping material to a cigarette the outer layer of which is designed for the purpose of removal from the cigarette e.g. by using a release coating type of adhesive that can be applied over substantially the whole inner surface of the outer tipping material or over the outer surface of the inner tipping material .

Referring to there is shown a representative two up cigarette that can be subdivided along hashed line in order to provide two filtered cigarettes . In addition representative manners or methods for providing preferred types of cigarettes are described with reference to . A two up filter segment is provided. That representative filter segment possesses filter material circumscribed by plug wrap . Two tobacco rods are aligned at each end of the two up filter segment. A first layer of tipping material e.g. a so called patch of tipping material is wrapped around the aligned components such that the tipping material circumscribes the entire length of the two up filter segment and a portion of the length of each tobacco rod in the respective regions thereof adjacent the filter segment. Typically that first layer of tipping material circumscribes about 3 mm to about 4 mm of the length of each tobacco rod. As such a so called two up cigarette is provided. For certain preferred embodiments the first layer of tipping material is selected from a type of tipping material and is applied in a type of manner each of which is comparable to that traditionally used for commercial filtered cigarette manufacture. Optionally that cigarette can be air diluted e.g. using laser perforation techniques by applying at least one circumscribing ring of perforations though first layer tipping material and underlying plug wrap . Then the two up cigarette so provided can be transferred to a second tipping assembly. There a second layer of tipping material e.g. a second patch of tipping material is wrapped around the two up cigarette such that the second layer of tipping material overlies the first layer of tipping material . Optionally that cigarette can be air diluted e.g. using laser perforation techniques by applying at least one circumscribing ring of perforations though the second layer of tipping material first layer tipping material and underlying plug wrap . Thus for the embodiment shown air dilution perforations can be absent provided through both layers of tipping materials or provided through only the first layer of tipping material. Then the two up combined segment possessing two layers of tipping material is cut in half perpendicular to its longitudinal axis to provide two finished cigarettes . As such the two finished cigarettes are both characterized by a smooth mouth end wherein the mouth end terminus of the filter material plug wrap and tipping materials are all in the same plane. If desired the two types of patches used for tipping materials can be substantially identical to one another e.g. in terms of overall visual appearance width length thickness physical properties and or composition . As such there are provided filtered cigarettes possessing two layers of tipping material that are positioned applied and aligned in a pre determined desired fashion.

Preparation of a double tipped two up cigarette in the foregoing fashion is particularly suitable for applying two appropriately aligned layers of tipping material to a cigarette neither of which layer of tipping material is designed for the purpose of being or intended to be removed from the cigarette e.g. because adhesive can be applied over substantially the whole inner surface of the outer tipping material . Alternatively such a methodology can be suitable for applying two appropriately aligned layers tipping material to a cigarette the outer layer of which is designed for the purpose of being or is intended to be removed from the cigarette e.g. by using a release coating type of adhesive that can be applied over substantially the whole inner surface of the outer tipping material or the outer surface of the inner tipping material . If desired the outer tipping material can be applied so as to possess adhesive on only selected regions thereof such as can be carried out using so called skip gap types of tipping adhesive application techniques. As such adhesive can be registered at the desired location on each outer tipping patch and as such sufficient adhesive can be applied so as to provide for a longitudinally extending strip to tack to the underlying region of the cigarette e.g. to the first layer of tipping material as well as a longitudinally extending strip to tack onto itself e.g. to allow the folded over outer layer of tipping material to form a type of seam . Optionally when skip gap types of adhesive application are employed adhesive application can be absent at either or both ends of the adhesive strip on the region of the tipping patch that provides the outer seam of the outer tipping material and as such either or both longitudinal end of the outer tipping material can be provided with a type of tab that can be used to grasp the outer tipping material for the purpose of tearing that tipping material away from the remainder of the cigarette. Such tabs typically have widths that are at least comparable to that of the seam line and lengths of about 2 mm to about 5 mm.

Preparation of a double tipped two up cigarette also can be carried out using a single patch of tipping material. In such a manner a tipping patch having an extended length e.g. at least sufficient in length to allow for that patch to be wrapped twice around the relevant region of the two up cigarette can be employed. For example the patch of tipping material can be wrapped around the two up cigarette to form an inner tipping portion or layer that extends around that two up cigarette and the two up cigarette can be turned a second time in order that it can be wrapped with the remaining length of the patch and hence provide an outer tipping portion or layer. In one embodiment adhesive can be applied to the entire inner surface of the elongated patch. In another embodiment adhesive can be applied to the entire inner surface of the patch that forms the inner tipping layer and skip gap techniques can be employed such that only a strip of adhesive e.g. so as to provide a seam is applied to the portion of that patch that forms the outer tipping layer.

Alternative representative manners or methods for providing certain preferred types of cigarettes also are described with reference to . A two up filter segment possessing filter material circumscribed by plug wrap is provided. Two tobacco rods are aligned at each end of the two up filter segment. A first layer of tipping material and an outer second layer of tipping material are provided as a double layer of tipping material e.g. as a laminate . That laminated layer of first and second layers of tipping material is wrapped around the aligned components such that the laminated layer of those two tipping materials circumscribes the entire length of the two up filter segment and a portion of the length of each tobacco rod in the respective regions thereof adjacent the filter segment. As such the so called two up cigarette is provided. Optionally that cigarette can be air diluted e.g. using laser perforation techniques by applying at least one circumscribing ring of perforations though the second or outer layer of tipping material the first layer or inner layer of tipping material and underlying plug wrap . Then the two up combined segment possessing two layers of tipping material is cut in half perpendicular to its longitudinal axis to provide two finished cigarettes . As such there are provided filtered cigarettes possessing two layers of tipping material that are positioned applied and aligned in a pre determined desired fashion.

Cigarette rods typically are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 781 203 to La Hue 4 844 100 to Holznagel 5 131 416 to Gentry 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al. 4 291 713 to Frank 4 514 816 to Rudszinat 4 736 754 to Heitmaim et al. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. 5 060 665 to Heitmaim 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities and types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rock can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in Johnson Development of Cigarette Components to Meet Industry Needs 52T.S.R.C. September 1998 U.S. Patent Nos. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al. 5 159 944 to Arzonico et al. 5 220 930 to Gentry and 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 375 700 filed Mar. 14 2006 to Thomas et al. and 11 408 625 filed Apr. 21 2006 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably the entire smokable rod is composed of smokable material e.g. tobacco cut filler and a layer of circumscribing outer wrapping material.

Components for filter elements for filtered cigarettes typically are provided from filter rods that are produced using traditional types of rod forming units such as those available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. Typically filter material such as filter tow is provided using a tow processing unit. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 281 671 to Byrne 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. 5 387 285 to Rivers and 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. Other types of technologies for supplying filter materials to a filter rod forming unit are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and 5 025 814 to Raker which are incorporated herein by reference.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 424 172 to Neurath 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials or additives used in connection with the construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers.

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1 100 CORESTA units to about 26 000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

Cigarette filter rods can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods then can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles dispersed within cellulose acetate tow e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced essentially of flavored plasticized cellulose acetate tow filter material at the other end. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that traditionally have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Representative types of filter designs and components including representative types of segmented cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. 5 025 814 to Raker 5 074 320 to Jones et al. 5 105 838 to White et al. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. PCT Publication No. WO 03 009711 to Kim PCT Publication No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 932 filed Sep. 14 2005 to Coleman III et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

The length of the filter element of each cigarette can vary. Typically the overall length of a filter element is about 20 mm to about 40 mm and often about 25 mm to about 35 mm. For a typical dual segment filter element the downstream or mouth end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm and the upstream or tobacco rod end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm.

Filter elements or filter segment components of combination filters typically are provided from filter rods that are manufactured using traditional types of cigarette filter rod making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. 4 850 301 to Greene Jr. et al. and 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. and 2006 0169295 to Draghetti each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture. Manners and methods for applying adhesives to tipping materials during automated cigarette manufacture will be apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. For example a filtered cigarette can be tipped with a first layer of tipping material in an essentially traditional manner using a Lab MAX tipping device that is available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and that tipped cigarette can be collected and tipped again using that device e.g. using the device in an essentially traditional manner or in a suitably modified manner to provide a desired pattern of adhesive application in order to provide a filtered cigarette possessing two layers of tipping material.

The first layer of tipping material most preferably extends over the entire length of the filter element and about 2 mm to about 6 mm often about 3 mm to about 5 mm and frequently about 4 mm over the length of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The second layer of tipping material most preferably extends over the entire length of the filter element and about 2 mm to about 6 mm often about 3 mm to about 5 mm and frequently about 4 mm over the length of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod.

The tipping material that is used for any of the tipping material layers can vary. In certain preferred embodiments the material used to construct both tipping material layers has the characteristics and qualities commonly associated with cigarette tipping materials known in the art. As such both layers can be constructed of the types of material conventionally used as tipping material in the manufacture of cigarettes. Typical tipping materials are papers exhibiting relatively high opacities. Representative tipping materials have TAPPI opacities of greater than about 81 percent often in the range of about 84 percent to about 90 percent and sometimes greater than about 90 percent. Typical tipping materials are printed with inks typically nitrocellulose based which can provide for a wide variety of appearances and lip release properties. Representative tipping papers materials have basis weights ranging from about 25 m mto about 60 g m often about 30 g mto about 40 g m. Representative tipping papers are available as Tervakoski Reference Nos. 3121 3124 TK 652 TK674 TK675 A360 and A362 and Schweitzer Mauduit International Reference Nos. GSR270 and GSR265M2. See also for example the types of tipping materials the methods for combining cigarette components using tipping materials and techniques for wrapping various portions of cigarettes using tipping materials that are set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 377 630 filed Mar. 16 2006 to Crooks et al.

Adhesives used to secure tipping materials to each other or to other filtered cigarette components can vary. Typical exemplary adhesive formulations that are used for application of tipping material to other cigarette components in commercial filtered cigarette manufacturing operations are water based emulsions incorporating mixtures of ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and polyvinylacetate. Representative adhesives that are useful for applying tipping materials to cigarette components are available as Reference Nos. 32 2049 and 32 2124 from National Starch Adhesives Corp. See also for example Skeist Handbook of Adhesives 2 Edition 1977 Schneberger Adhesive in Manufacturing 1983 Gutcho Adhesives Technology Developments Since 1979 1983 Landrock Adhesives Technology Handbook 1985 and Flick Handbook of Adhesives Raw Materials 2 Edition 1989 .

Pressure sensitive adhesives can be used to provide for adhesion of the outer tipping material to the remaining components of the cigarette e.g. particularly for manufacture handling packaging shipping storage and initial use of the cigarette as well as for providing the ability to readily release e.g. particularly so that the outer tipping can be readily removed from the cigarette when desired . That is suitable preferred pressure sensitive adhesives provide a satisfactory but temporary bond between the outer tipping material and the remaining components of the cigarette and that adhesive is such that the outer tipping material or a portion thereof can be peeled away and hence removed from the cigarette most preferably without leaving to any significant or readily noticeable degree any adhesive residue on the underlying cigarette components. In addition suitable preferred pressure sensitive adhesives though providing sufficient adhesion so that a double tipped cigarette can be used as desired without adhesive failure i.e. so as to avoid undesirable premature release of portions of the outer tipping from the cigarette is most preferably such that purposeful removal of the outer tipping material does not cause any significant or noticeable structural failure to the underlying cigarette components. That is most preferably after purposeful removal of the outer tipping material the resulting cigarette does not possess any significant visual or structural damage resulting from the presence and removal of that outer tipping material. If desired the outer surface of the underlying first tipping material optionally can be coated with a lacquer or other suitable coating material in order to provide a propensity for substantially all the pressure sensitive adhesive to be removed along with the outer tipping material. Representative pressure sensitive adhesives are commercially available from a wide variety of sources such as 3M Rohm Haas Company and Ashland Specialty Chemical Company. See also for example Satas Handbook of Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology 1982 and Satas Advances in Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology 2 1995 .

Cigarettes can be air diluted. Tipping materials can be pre perforated or air diluted on line using laser perforation techniques. For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette. For certain preferred air diluted cigarettes the cigarettes are air diluted in such a manner that the cigarette exhibits substantially identical levels of air dilution when the second layer is present on the cigarette and when the second layer is removed from the cigarette e.g. by laser perforating relevant regions of a two up cigarette after that cigarette has the second layer of tipping material applied thereto .

Referring to there is shown a further embodiment of a filtered cigarette . A first tipping material circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The inner surface of the first tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the first tipping material and plug wrap . The cigarette also possesses a second tipping material . The second tipping material provides an outer layer that overlies and circumscribes the first tipping material . The second tipping material does not extend as far upstream along the cigarette as does the first tipping material and as such a portion of the length of the first tipping material is not covered or overwrapped by the second tipping material . The inner surface or some portion thereof of the second tipping material can be fixedly secured to the outer surface of the inner or first tipping material . As such the second tipping material also can overlie the entire length of the filter element and the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extends through the outer tipping material the inner tipping material and the plug wrap .

Referring to there is shown another embodiment of a filtered cigarette . A first tipping material circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The inner surface of the first tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the first tipping material and plug wrap . The cigarette also possesses a second tipping material . The second tipping material provides an outer layer that overlies and circumscribes the first tipping material . The second tipping material extends further upstream along the cigarette as does the first tipping material and as such a portion of the length of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod that is not covered or overwrapped by the first tipping material is circumscribed by the second tipping material . The inner surface or some portion thereof of the second tipping material can be fixedly secured to the outer surface of the inner or first tipping material and optionally though preferably the wrapping material in that upstream region thereof that is not circumscribed by the first tipping material. As such the second tipping material also can overlie the entire length of the filter element and the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extends through the outer tipping material the inner tipping material and the plug wrap .

Referring to there is shown yet another embodiment of a filtered cigarette . A first tipping material circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the first tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the first tipping material and plug wrap . The cigarette also possesses a second tipping material . The second tipping material provides an outer layer that overlies and circumscribes the first tipping material . Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extends through the outer tipping material the inner tipping material and the plug wrap . The second tipping material possesses a line or ring of a plurality of perforations that extends around the cigarette essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette. As such the second tipping material can be subdivided about the line of perforations in order to provide two pieces of outer tipping material one outer piece or segment located at the extreme mouth end of the cigarette and the other outer piece located upstream from that mouth end segment.

In one embodiment the outer mouth end piece or segment of second tipping material is secured to the corresponding underlying region of the first tipping material . Preferably the upstream segment is formed into the general shape of a ring or tube e.g. by applying sufficient adhesive to the seam line thereof but not sufficient adhesive to cause prevention of longitudinal movement of that ring or tube . As such When the region possessing perforations is broken the upstream segment of second tipping material can be movable along the tobacco rod . As such the upstream segment can act as a cuff ring slidable band or the like. Such a slidable band can be used to provide flavor to a desired region of the tobacco rod e.g. the inner face of the band can possess a film incorporating a plurality of microcapsules comprising micro encapsulated flavoring agent or a flavoring agent that is otherwise entrapped by a film like or encapsulating agent and friction resulting from movement of the band along the smokable rod can result in the release of contained flavoring agent and the application of that flavoring agent to the wrapping material of the tobacco rod act as a movable non combustible band to extinguish the cigarette during use e.g. a band composed of a highly non air permeable material heat sinking material or a material treated so as to be essentially non combustible that can be positioned over a desired region of the tobacco rod or act as a visual check to view progress of smoking e.g. the band can be positioned over a desired location of the tobacco rod prior to commencement of the smoking experience or can serve any other suitable purpose. Thus the movable or slidable portion of the outer tipping material can be moved or slid by the smoker before during or after smoking of the cigarette as desired. In some embodiments the movable portion of the outer tipping material can be adapted to improve the sensory characteristics of the cigarette butt following smoking by providing for example a pleasing scent or otherwise masking any odor associated with the cigarette butt. In one exemplary embodiment the outer tipping material includes micro encapsulated flavoring agents that can be selectively ruptured by the user after smoking to improve odor associated with the cigarette butt. In another exemplary embodiment the movable portion can be used to snuff out or extinguish the cigarette by moving all or a portion of the outer tipping material over the lit end of the cigarette optionally with additional pressure applied by the user to the outer surface of the movable portion of the tipping material once it is positioned over the burning portion of the tobacco rod.

In one embodiment the outer upstream piece or segment of second tipping material is secured to the corresponding underlying region of the first tipping material . Preferably the downstream segment is formed into the general shape of a ring or tube e.g. by applying sufficient adhesive to the seam line thereof but not sufficient adhesive to cause prevention of longitudinal movement of that ring or tube . As such when the region possessing perforations is broken the mouth end segment of second tipping material can be movable along the filter element. As such the mouth end segment can act as a type of extension to lengthen the mouth end region of the cigarette. For example that segment can slide out the filter end of the cigarette and as such fashion a type of cigarette holder to lengthen the rod.

Referring to there is shown the mouth end region of a filtered cigarette such as a filter cigarette of the type described previously with reference to . The filter material is circumscribed by plug wrap which possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the plug wrap overlies itself. The lap zone for the plug wrap typically is about 2 mm to about 4 mm in width. Overlying the plug wrap is a layer of first tipping material which possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of that tipping material overlies itself. The lap zone for the first tipping material typically is less than about 4 mm often less than about 3 mm and is frequently about 1.5 mm to about 2.5 mm in width. Overlying the first tipping material is a layer of second tipping material which possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of that tipping material overlies itself. The lap zone for the second tipping material typically is less than about 4 mm often less than about 3 mm and is frequently about 1.5 mm to about 2.5 mm in width. In addition beyond the seam region of the second tipping material that tipping material possesses an optional extended region which preferably is not adhered back onto itself but rather lies over its underlying outer surface and is sufficiently free to act as a tab that can be grasped by the fingers of the user. The extended region which preferably extends along a portion of the length of the cigarette and for the entire length of the second tipping material has a width that can vary. For example the extended region often can have a width of about 1 mm to about 5 mm and often about 2 mm to about 4 mm. If desired printed indicia on the outer surface of the second tipping material can provide indication of the location of the extended region.

Referring to there is shown the mouth end region of a filtered cigarette such as a filter cigarette of the type described previously with reference to . The filter material is circumscribed by plug wrap which possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the plug wrap overlies itself. Overlying the plug wrap is a double layer and most preferably a laminated layer of first and second tipping materials . The double layer of tipping materials possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the bottom or inner face of the first tipping material overlies a portion of the its upper or outer face. That lap zone for the first tipping material typically is less than about 4 mm often less than about 3 mm and is frequently about 1.5 mm to about 2.5 mm in width. The double layer of tipping materials can possess an optional though not preferable lap or seam region where a portion of the bottom or inner face of the second tipping material overlies a portion of the its upper or outer face and wherein the lap or seam region includes an optional adhesive for securing the second tipping material to itself. That optional lap zone for the second tipping material when present typically is less than about 4 mm often less than about 3 mm and is frequently about 1.5 mm to about 2.5 mm in width. In addition beyond the seam region the second or outer tipping Material possesses an extended region which preferably does not have adhesive applied to its inner face but rather lies over its underlying outer surface and is sufficiently free to act as a tab that can be grasped by the fingers of the user. The extended region which preferably extends along a portion of the length of the cigarette and for the entire length of the second tipping material has a width that can vary. For example the extended region often can have a width of about 1 mm to about 5 mm and often about 2 mm to about 4 mm. If desired printed indicia on the outer surface of the second tipping material can provide indication of the location of the extended region.

Referring to there is shown a side view of a representative laminated tipping material possessing layers provided by a first tipping material and a second tipping material . The configuration of those tipping materials is such that the laminated layer of tipping material can be used to provide a filtered cigarette of the type described previously with reference to . The layers of tipping material are offset relative to one another such that a portion of the second layer does not overlie the first layer at one side and a portion of the first layer does not overlie the second layer at the opposite side. As such the laminate can be folded over itself so as to provide a generally circular arrangement with the first layer of tipping material forming the inner region and the second layer of tipping material forming the outer tipping region. For the embodiment shown the inside right face of the inner tipping material can overlap and be adhered to outside left face of the left side of the inner tipping material in that region that is not overlapped by the outer tipping material . As such right side of the outer tipping material can act as the so called extended region or tab that can be used to pull the removable tipping material away from the rest of the filtered cigarette within which it is incorporated.

Referring to there is shown a side view of a further embodiment of a laminated tipping material possessing layers provided by a first tipping material and a second tipping material . The configuration of those tipping materials is such that the laminated layer of tipping material can be used to provide a filtered cigarette generally of the type described previously with reference to . The layers of tipping material are offset relative to one another such that a portion of the second layer does not overlie the first layer at one side . For the embodiment shown the inside right face of the inner tipping material can overlap and be adhered to outside left face of the left side of the inner tipping material in that region that is not overlapped by the outer tipping material . As such the laminate can be folded over itself so as to provide a generally circular arrangement with the inner tipping material forming the inner region and the outer tipping material forming the outer tipping region.

Referring to there is shown the mouth end region of a filtered cigarette such as a filter cigarette of the type described previously with reference to . The filter material is circumscribed by plug wrap which possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the plug wrap overlies itself. Overlying the plug wrap is a double layer of first and second tipping materials that are provided encircling the cigarette twice with a single piece of tipping material . The first layer of tipping material preferably is adhered to the underlying plug wrap and also possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the bottom or inner face of that inner tipping material overlies a portion of its upper or outer face. A line of perforations extending along the longitudinal length of the filter element extends across that tipping material and as such defines a type of demarcation between the inner and outer tipping materials . The tipping material extends around the cigarette to provide the second layer of tipping material . The second layer of tipping material preferably possesses a lap or seam region where a portion of the bottom or inner face of that outer tipping material overlies a portion of its upper or outer face and can be adhered thereto. That lap zone or region for the second tipping material is typically less than about 4 mm often less than about 3 mm and is frequently about 1.5 mm to about 2.5 mm in width. In addition beyond the seam region the second or outer tipping material possesses an extended region which preferably does not have adhesive applied to its inner face but rather lies over its underlying outer surface and is sufficiently free to act as a tab that can be grasped by the fingers of the user. The extended region which preferably extends along a portion of the length of the cigarette and for the entire length of the second tipping material has a width that can vary. For example the extended region often can have a width of about 1 mm to about 5 mm and often about 2 mm to about 4 mm.

Referring to there is shown a single piece of patch of tipping material that can be used to form the double wrapped tipping material shown in . The representative single piece is at least roughly twice the length of a conventional piece or patch of tipping material. Thus the tipping material piece can form an inner layer and an outer layer when that tipping material is wrapped twice around the relevant regions of cigarette components. The inner face of the inner region can have adhesive applied thereto in order to adhere that portion of the tipping material to relevant regions of cigarette components. The line of perforations allows the tipping material to be separated into two pieces. A line of adhesive can be placed in the lap or seam region e.g. which can be applied by skip gap techniques provides for fastening securing or connecting the outer layer of tipping material in place. The optional tab region extends beyond the adhesive line of the lap region .

For various embodiments of the present invention depending upon the selection of the tipping materials the first i.e. inner tipping material and the second i.e. outer tipping material can be different from one another e.g. in terms of visual appearance composition physical properties or characteristics such as basis weight sizing level inherent porosity opacity sensory characteristics and or general dimensions . Alternatively those inner and outer tipping materials can be substantially identical to one another.

In one embodiment the first tipping material can be one color or of one type of appearance e.g. white in appearance and the second tipping material which preferably can be removable from the cigarette can be another color or of another type of appearance e.g. printed so as to have a brown cork type of appearance or printed with other indicia . Other cosmetic differences can be provided by using one type of tipping material that is smooth high opacity shiny or of high luster in appearance and one type of tipping material that is rough low opacity dull or satiny in appearance. Other visual effects can be provided by using different graphics on each of the two tipping materials. Thus there is provided a manner or method by which the smoker can by removing the second tipping material from the cigarette during use select the desired general appearance or of a cigarette.

In one embodiment the first tipping material can be selected so as to possess one type of tactile character and the second tipping material which preferably can be removable from the cigarette can possess a difference type of tactile character. For example the inner tipping material can possess an outer surface that can be characterized as wavy rough variegated possessing folds or creases having an accordion type or bellows type configuration or the like while the outer tipping material can possess an outer surface that can be characterized as smooth slick or the like. In that regard suitable coating agents e.g. a lacquer that provide a slick smooth feel to the outer surface of the outer tipping material can be employed. Alternatively the inner tipping material can be highly perforated e.g. from the bottom face outwards embossed subjected to fillagraining processing printed with coatings e.g. ink formulations or starch based materials that provide raised or textured surface properties or treated with particulate material within an adhesive film . For example sugar crystals salt crystals rupturable flavor containing microcapsules cellulosic fibers particles of calcium carbonate or the like can be secured to the outer surface of the inner tipping material using an over layer or patterned over layer of a suitable adhesive.

Tipping materials that each can provide a mouth end region that can exhibit a different feeling when placed in the lips of the smoker also can be accomplished through the use of two types of laminated tipping materials. For example the inner face of the outer tipping material can be coated with a suitable release coating and the outer face of the inner tipping material can treated so as to have regions that provide for desired adhesion to the release coating as well as regions that provide the desired surface texture. Thus there is provided a manner or method by which the smoker can by removing the second tipping material from the cigarette during use select the tactile sensation provided by the outer mouth end region of that cigarette.

In one embodiment the first tipping material can be selected so as to possess certain other physical properties and the second tipping which preferably can be removable form the cigarette can possess different physical properties. For example the tipping materials can differ is terms of basis weight thickness tensile strength wet strength moisture porosity air permeability flexibility general or overall hardness general or overall softness or the like.

In one embodiment the first tipping material can be selected so as to possess the ability to secure the filter element to the tobacco rod. Such can be provided by selection of a material having desired surface properties ability to seal ability to accept adhesive and the like. The second tipping material can be selected so as to provide desirable visual tactile and sensory properties. As such cigarettes of both highly desirable sensory quality and good physical integrity can be provided.

In one embodiment the first tipping material can be selected so as to exhibit one type of aroma or flavor sensation and the second tipping material which can be removable from the cigarette can be selected so as to exhibit another type of aroma or flavor sensation. In one aspect the amount of aromatic or flavoring agent carried by one of the tipping materials can differ from that amount carried by the other. Thus for example an outer tipping material carrying a relatively low level of aromatic or flavoring agent can provide one type of sensation while an inner tipping material carrying a relatively high level of aromatic or flavoring agent can when the outer tipping material is removed from the cigarette provide impact in terms of the delivery of that aromatic or flavoring agent to the lips and mouth of the smoker. In certain embodiments the outer tipping material can be adapted to prevent flavorants incorporated in between the tipping materials or within the inner tipping material from escaping prior to use of the cigarette or can be adapted to mask the flavorant prior to cigarette use. At the time of use the smoker can remove the outer wrapping material to expose the flavorant.

Exemplary manners and methods for providing encapsulated materials such as microencapsulated flavoring agents are set forth in Gutcho Microcapsules and Microencapsulation Techniques 1976 and Gutcho Microcapsules and Other Capsules Advances Since 1975 1979 . Exemplary types of microcapsules can have diameters of less than 100 microns an often can have outer shells that are gelatin based cyclodextrin based or the like. Microcapsules have been commercially available and exemplary types of microcapsule technologies are of that type set forth in Kondo Microcapsule Processing and Technology 1979 Iwamoto et al. AAPS Pharm. Sci. Tech. 2002 3 3 article 25 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 550 598 to McGlumphy and 6 117 455 to Takada et al.

In one embodiment releasable flavoring or aromatic agents such as are provided by encapsulated flavor materials can be incorporated into either or both of the first and second tipping materials. For example microcapsules can be positioned in the region between the layers of tipping materials and such flavors can be released by application of pressure or peeling of the outer tipping material from the inner tipping material.

Exemplary flavoring agents suitable for use in the invention may be natural or synthetic and the character of these flavors can be described without limitation as fresh sweet herbal confectionary floral fruity or spice. Specific types of flavors include but are not limited to vanilla coffee chocolate cream mint spearmint menthol peppermint wintergreen lavender cardamon nutmeg cinnamon clove cascarilla sandalwood honey jasmine ginger anise sage licorice lemon orange apple peach lime cherry and strawberry. See also Leffingwill et al. Tobacco Flavoring for Smoking Products R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . Flavorings also can include components that are considered moistening cooling or smoothening agents such as eucalyptus. These flavors may be provided neat i.e. alone or in a composite e.g. spearmint and menthol or orange and cinnamon . Composite flavors may be combined in a single capsule as a mixture or as components of multiple capsules.

In one embodiment the tipping materials can include printed indicia for marketing or other purposes. For example markings or indicia on either or both of the tipping materials can aid in identification of properly manufactured cigarettes so as to assist in identifying or recognizing counterfeit cigarettes. As another example markings on the inner or outer face of a removable outer tipping material can be used to identify product act as a coupon or ticket act a game piece or the like.

In one embodiment the tipping materials can be used to enhance the degradability of spent cigarette portions such as cigarette butts. For example outer tipping materials which might be desirable for providing certain sensory characteristics can be removed after the cigarette is smoked. That portion of the outer tipping material removed from the cigarette butt can be disposed of separately from the remainder of the cigarette butt. As such absence of that tipping material within the cigarette butt can provide for enhanced degradability of the remaining butt components.

In certain embodiments the outer tipping material can be constructed of a paper having characteristics and qualities such as combustibility commonly associated with cigarette paper used as smokable rod wrapping material . In such embodiments the outer tipping material is designed to be removed from the inner tipping material though use of for example a pressure sensitive adhesive or skip gap adhesive application between the inner and outer tipping material that provides sufficient adhesive strength to maintain the outer tipping material in place prior to use by the smoker but which can be removed from the inner tipping material when desired. As such the outer tipping material can be removed to expose the inner tipping material prior to smoking. Alternatively the user may in certain embodiments slide the outer tipping material down to the smokable rod portion of the cigarette such that a portion of the smokable rod has a double layer of wrapping material. The presence of the double wrapping on a portion of the smokable rod can reduce visible sidestream smoke or alter the sensory characteristics e.g. the flavor or aroma characteristics of the smoke or chemistry of the smoke generated by the cigarette. For example the outer tipping material may include any of the flavoring or aroma agents discussed herein including for example the flavor and aroma precursors discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. which is incorporated by reference herein. In this manner the smoker can selectively alter the sensory characteristics of the smoke as desired or simply remove the outer tipping material.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

