---

title: Methods of forming SiC MOSFETs with high inversion layer mobility
abstract: Methods of forming an oxide layer on silicon carbide include thermally growing an oxide layer on a layer of silicon carbide, and annealing the oxide layer in an environment containing NO at a temperature greater than 1175° C. The oxide layer may be annealed in NO in a silicon carbide tube that may be coated with silicon carbide. To form the oxide layer, a preliminary oxide layer may be thermally grown on a silicon carbide layer in dry O, and the preliminary oxide layer may be re-oxidized in wet O.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536066&OS=08536066&RS=08536066
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08536066
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100510
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 486 752 filed on Jul. 14 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 727 904 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 717 953 filed Sep. 16 2005 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entireties.

The present invention was made at least in part with support from United States Air Force contract number FA8650 04 2 2410 and ARL MTO contract number W911NF 04 2 0022. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to methods of fabricating power devices and the resulting devices and more particularly to silicon carbide power devices and methods of fabricating silicon carbide power devices.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. Modern power devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from the semiconductor surface by an intervening insulator which may be but is not limited to silicon dioxide. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation. Power MOSFETs can provide an excellent safe operating area and can be paralleled in a unit cell structure.

As is well known to those having skill in the art power MOSFETs may include a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the drain gate and source terminals are on the same surface of a substrate. In contrast in a vertical structure the source and drain are on opposite surfaces of the substrate.

One widely used silicon power MOSFET is the double diffused MOSFET DMOSFET which is fabricated using a double diffusion process. In these devices a p base region and an n source region are diffused through a common opening in a mask. The p base region is driven in deeper than the n source. The difference in the lateral diffusion between the p base and n source regions forms a surface channel region.

Recent development efforts in power devices have also included investigation of the use of silicon carbide SiC devices for power devices. Silicon carbide SiC has a combination of electrical and physical properties that make it attractive for a semiconductor material for high temperature high voltage high frequency and high power electronic devices. These properties include a 3.0 eV bandgap a 4 MV cm electric field breakdown a 4.9 W cm K thermal conductivity and a 2.0 10cm s electron drift velocity.

Consequently these properties may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels and or with lower specific on resistance than conventional silicon based power devices. A theoretical analysis of the superiority of silicon carbide devices over silicon devices is found in a publication by Bhatnagar et al. entitled Comparison of 6H SiC 3C SiC and Si for Power Devices IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices Vol. 40 1993 pp. 645 655. A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

4H SiC Power DMOSFETs have the potential to offer significant advantages over conventional high voltage Si power switches. Unfortunately however it may be difficult to thermally grow an acceptable gate oxide for these devices. Much effort has been focused on reducing the interface trap density D at the SiC SiOinterface in order to increase the channel mobility of the devices. Nitric Oxide NO anneals at 1175 C. have increased the from single digits to 30 cm Vs. See e.g. G. Y. Chung et al. 22 176 2001 . Researchers have demonstrated even higher channel mobility 150 cm Vs by oxidizing in an environment containing metallic impurities. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 559 068 . However such a process may result in significant oxide contamination may provide an uncontrolled oxidation rate t 1500 and or may be incompatible with high temperature processing steps such as may be used for ohmic contact anneals.

Methods of forming an oxide layer on silicon carbide according to some embodiments of the invention include thermally growing an oxide layer on a layer of silicon carbide and annealing the oxide layer in an environment containing NO at a temperature greater than 1175 C.

Annealing the oxide layer may include annealing the oxide layer in an environment containing NO at a temperature between about 1200 C. and about 1600 C. In particular embodiments annealing the oxide layer may include annealing the oxide layer in an environment containing NO at a temperature of about 1300 C. Furthermore the oxide layer may be annealed for about 2 hours.

The methods may further include placing the oxide layer on the silicon carbide layer in a silicon carbide tube and annealing the oxide layer may include annealing the oxide layer in the silicon carbide tube. The silicon carbide tube may include a tube of silicon carbide having a silicon carbide coating thereon. The silicon carbide coating on the silicon carbide tube may include a silicon carbide coating deposited by chemical vapor deposition on the silicon carbide tube.

Thermally growing the oxide may include thermally growing the oxide in the presence of metallic impurities. In particular thermally growing the oxide may include thermally growing the oxide in the presence of alumina including the metallic impurities. Thermally growing the oxide layer may include thermally growing the oxide layer to a thickness of between about 500 and 900 . Thermally growing the oxide layer may include thermally growing a preliminary oxide layer on the silicon carbide layer in dry O2 at a temperature of about 1200 C. and re oxidizing the preliminary oxide layer in wet O2 at a temperature of about 950 C.

The silicon carbide layer may include an epitaxial layer of 4H p type silicon carbide having an off axis orientation that may be tilted at about 8 from a 0001 plane.

Methods of forming a silicon carbide MOS structure according to some embodiments of the invention include thermally growing an oxide layer on a layer of silicon carbide annealing the oxide layer in an environment containing NO at a temperature greater than 1175 C. and forming a gate electrode on the oxide layer.

The methods may further include forming a gate contact on the oxide layer the gate contact including polysilicon and or a metal.

The silicon carbide layer may include a region of p type silicon carbide and the methods may further include forming an n type region in the p type silicon carbide region. Thermally growing the oxide layer may include thermally growing the oxide layer on the p type silicon carbide region and at least partially on the n type region.

The p type silicon carbide region may include a p type epitaxial layer and the n type region may include an n type source region. The methods may further include forming an n type drain region in the p type epitaxial layer that is spaced apart from the n type source region and that defines a channel region between the source region and the drain region. Thermally growing the oxide layer may include thermally growing the oxide layer on the channel region.

The methods may further include forming ohmic contacts on the n type source region and the n type drain region and annealing the ohmic contacts on the n type source region and the n type drain region at a temperature of at least about 500 C. The channel region may have a channel mobility of at least about 40 cm Vs at room temperature following the ohmic contact anneal.

The p type silicon carbide region may include an implanted p type well region and the n type region may include an n type source region. The methods may further include forming the implanted p type well region adjacent an n type JFET region that extends from a surface of the structure to a drift region disposed beneath the p type well region and thermally growing the oxide layer may include thermally growing the oxide layer on a channel region extending in the p type well region between the source region and the JFET region.

The methods may further include forming an ohmic contact on the n type source region and annealing the ohmic contact on the n type source region at a temperature of at least about 500 C. The channel region may have a channel mobility of at least about 35 cm Vs at room temperature following the ohmic contact anneal.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions materials layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer material or section from another element component region layer material or section. Thus a first element component region layer material or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer material or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Embodiments of the invention provide DMOSFET devices formed using a thermally grown Metal Enhanced Oxidation MEO and or high temperature 1175 C. NO annealing. Both processes may reduce Dnear the conduction band E which may enable higher inversion layer mobility on implanted and or epitaxial channel devices. Furthermore MEO and or NO processes according to some embodiments of the invention may exhibit controlled oxidation rates t 600 900 and or temperature stability which may make them suitable for 4H SiC Power MOSFET fabrication.

Referring now to embodiments of a lateral MOSFET according to some embodiments of the invention are illustrated.

As illustrated in an N channel lateral MOSFET includes a p type epitaxial layer grown on a substrate which may be an 8 off axis 0001 conducting 4HP SiC crystal. Other polytypes and or off axis angles of silicon carbide may also be used for the substrate . In some embodiments the epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 5 m or more and may be formed using for example an MOCVD process and may be doped with p type impurities such as boron and or aluminum at a concentration of about 5 10 1 10cm. The epitaxial layer may have a thickness less than 5 m in some cases. In particular embodiments the epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 5 m and may have a dopant concentration of about 5 10cm. In some embodiments the channel region of the epitaxial layer may be doped via ion implantation and may have a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmto 1 10cm.

Nitrogen and or phosphorus ions may be implanted into the epitaxial layer to form n source drain regions such that the n source drain regions have a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmor more. However if the dopant concentration of the source drain regions is less than 1 10 a thermal anneal may be required to form ohmic contacts thereon. In particular embodiments the n source drain regions are doped with phosphorus at a dopant concentration of about 1 10cm. The implants may be activated for example by a 1650 C. Ar anneal in the presence of Si overpressure. A 0.5 m thick deposited oxide layer may serve as a field oxide not shown . A control oxide i.e. gate oxide layer is formed on the epitaxial layer between and extending onto the source drain regions . The thickness of the control oxide layer may depend on the desired operating parameters of the device. For example it may be appropriate to select an oxide thickness based on a maximum electric field of 3 MV cm. In particular the control oxide layer may have a thickness of about 500 which corresponds to a maximum gate voltage of 15 V.

The control oxide layer may be grown for example using a multi stage oxidation process including an oxidation step in dry Ofollowed by re oxidation ReOx in wet Oas described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

For example the control oxide layer may be grown by a dry wet oxidation process that includes a growth of bulk oxide in dry Ofollowed by an anneal of the bulk oxide in wet O. As used herein anneal of oxide in wet Orefers to an anneal of an oxide in an ambient containing both Oand vaporized HO. An additional anneal in an inert atmosphere may be performed between the dry oxide growth and the wet oxide anneal. The dry Ooxide growth may be performed for example in a quartz tube at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in dry Ofor a time of at least about 2.5 hours. Dry oxide growth is performed to grow the bulk oxide layer to a desired thickness. The temperature of the dry oxide growth may affect the oxide growth rate. For example higher process temperatures may produce higher oxide growth rates. The maximum growth temperature may be dependent on the system used.

In some embodiments the dry Ooxide growth may be performed at a temperature of about 1200 C. in dry Ofor about 2.5 hours. The resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere. In particular the resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in Ar for about 1 hour. The wet Ooxide anneal ReOx may be performed at a temperature of about 950 C. or less for a time of at least about 1 hour. The temperature of the wet Oanneal may be limited to discourage further thermal oxide growth at the SiC SiOinterface which may introduce additional interface states. In particular the wet Oanneal may be performed in wet Oat a temperature of about 950 C. for about 3 hours. The resulting control oxide layer may have a thickness of about 500 .

A gate contact is formed on the control oxide . The gate contact may include for example boron doped polysilicon and or evaporated aluminum. Boron doped polysilicon may be used to help adjust the threshold voltage of the device to a desired level. Polysilicon doped with other impurities including n type impurities may also be used as a gate contact . In some embodiments the thermal budget of the process may be a concern. In such cases the use of evaporated aluminum may help reduce the thermal budget. Nickel source drain contacts may be formed on the source drain regions . In particular nickel contacts formed on the n source drain regions may exhibit ohmic behavior without any sintering.

Referring now to a vertical power MOSFET according to some embodiments of the invention is illustrated. Vertical silicon carbide MOSFETs are generally replicated in a unit cell. For ease of illustration a single unit cell vertical MOSFET will be described.

As is seen in a MOSFET according to embodiments of the present invention may include an n monocrystalline silicon carbide substrate . An n silicon carbide drift layer is provided on a first face of the substrate . The doping and thickness of the drift layer may be determined by taking into consideration the desired blocking voltage of the device. For example for a high voltage device the drift layer may have a thickness of about 5 m to about 100 m and a doping concentration of about 8 10to 1 10cm. First and second implanted p type wells are formed in the n layer . The p wells may be formed using implanted aluminum resulting in a dopant concentration of 1 10to 1 10cm. In particular embodiments the p wells may have a dopant concentration of about 1 10cm. Implanted contact regions of p silicon carbide may also be provided in the p wells . The implanted contact regions may be formed for example by implantation of acceptor ions such as boron and or aluminum to produce regions having a dopant density of about 1 10cm. In particular implanted aluminum may be more suitable for the contact regions due to the lower diffusivity of aluminum in SiC.

First and second n source regions are provided in the p type wells adjacent the contact regions . The implanted source regions may be formed for example by implantation of donor ions to produce regions having a dopant density of about 1 10cmor more.

An n type silicon carbide JFET region is adjacent to the n source regions . The JFET region is spaced apart from the source regions by channel regions in the p type wells . The JFET region which extends to the n layer may have a similar dopant concentration as the drift layer . In some embodiments however the JFET region may be implanted with n type impurities to have a higher dopant concentration than the drift layer . For example the JFET region may be implanted with donor ions to have a dopant density of from about 1 10to about 1 10cm. The actual dopant concentration chosen may depend on the desired operational characteristics of the device.

A control oxide of a suitable dielectric material such as SiO extends over the JFET region and the channel regions to the n source regions . The control oxide may have a thickness of from about 500 to about 800 . In particular the control oxide may have a thickness of about 500 .

A gate contact is provided on the control oxide opposite the channel region . Source contacts are formed on the n source regions . The source contacts are also formed on the p contact regions to short the n source regions to the p well regions . The p well regions may be relatively highly doped to reduce and or prevent turning on the parasitic npn transistors formed by source regions well regions and drift layer . For example the p well regions may have a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmto about 1 10cmor greater. A drain contact is provided on the face of the substrate opposite the p type wells . The drain contact may be formed for example using nickel.

In some embodiments the thermally grown control oxide of the device of and or the thermally grown control oxide of the device of may be annealed in nitric oxide NO at a temperature above about 1175 C. In some embodiments the control oxide may be annealed in NO at a temperature above about 1175 C. and below a temperature at which the oxide begins to physically decompose which may be for example a temperature between about 1500 C. and about 1600 C. or above. In some embodiments the control oxide may be annealed in NO at a temperature between about 1200 C. and about 1500 C. In particular the control oxide may be annealed in NO at a temperature of about 1300 C. The anneal time may depend on the selected anneal temperature. For example for a 1300 C. anneal the anneal time may be about 2 hours.

In some embodiments metallic impurities may be incorporated into the control oxide films by oxidizing the channel region of the devices in the presence of alumina as described for example in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 229 476 filed Sep. 16 2005 entitled Methods of Fabricating Oxide Layers on Silicon Carbide Layers Utilizing Atomic Oxygen the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In particular alumina may be provided in the oxidation chamber by mounting alumina disks adjacent wafers being oxidized. In some embodiments the only alumina present in the anneal system may be the alumina disks. By limiting the alumina in the system to the alumina disks it may be possible to control and or limit the oxidation rate.

In particular an MEO oxidation may be performed by placing a 99.8 pure alumina disk in proximity with a SiC substrate being oxidized. One way to accomplish this is to mount an alumina disk parallel to and adjacent with a wafer in the anneal tube. Areas of the SiC substrate that are in proximity to the alumina disk may exhibit enhanced oxidation.

Vertical MOSFET structures may also be formed using epitaxial p type layers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 659 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The following experimental results are provided as examples only and shall not be viewed as limiting the present invention. N channel lateral MOSFETs were fabricated as test structures on 5 m 5 10cmp type epitaxial layers grown on 8 off axis 0001 conducting 4HP substrates. Phosphorus was implanted to form the source drain regions and a heavy aluminum dose 1 10cmbox profile was implanted to simulate the DMOSFET p well region for half of the devices i.e. the implanted channel devices . The implants were activated by annealing at 1650 C. in Ar with Si overpressure for about 5 minutes to about 1 hour. A sacrificial oxidation may be performed after the implants are activated in order to improve the surface of the epitaxial layer. Furthermore a field oxide may be grown and patterned to expose the active region of the device. Growth of the field oxide may also incorporate a sacrificial thermal oxidation over the active region of the device.

A 0.5 m thick oxide layer was then deposited and patterned as the field oxide. In some wafers referred to herein as the ReOx wafers a 500 thick control oxide was grown at 1200 C. in dry Ofollowed by a 950 C. wet reoxidation ReOx . Some wafers the MEO wafers were thermally oxidized in the presence of metallic impurities to form a control oxide having a thickness tof about 600 to about 900 . In some wafers referred to herein as the NO wafers the control oxide was grown using the reoxidation process described above and subsequently annealed in situ in NO at 1300 C. in a silicon carbide tube coated with a coating of high quality silicon carbide deposited by chemical vapor deposition.

To form the MEO wafers a plurality of SiC wafers to be oxidized were placed in SiC boats on a SiC paddle. A 99.8 pure alumina disk was mounted upright between each of the boats parallel to the disks in the boats. The paddle including the boats SiC wafers and alumina disks was inserted into a SiC anneal tube with a loading temperature of 800 C. under a flow of Nand O. The temperature within the anneal tube was ramped up to 1000 C. and the SiC wafers were oxidized for about 6.5 hours. The SiC wafers were then annealed in Nfor about 5.5 hours at 1000 C. and then the anneal tube was cooled down for two hours.

Boron doped polysilicon was deposited to form the gate electrode for the ReOx and NO wafers while evaporated aluminum was used for the MEO wafers to reduce or minimize the thermal budget. Nickel contacts were formed on the source drain regions by evaporation and lift off. In the MEO wafers the contacts were annealed at about 500 C. to make the contacts ohmic. The anneal of MEO wafers was limited to 500 C. to protect the aluminum gate. For the NO wafers the contacts may be annealed at higher temperatures e.g. about 825 C. . Companion n type wafers were also oxidized and metallized to create NMOS capacitors for comparison purposes. Lateral MOSFETs were formed with a 400 m 400 m channel dimension to make the channel resistance dominant for ease of field effect mobility extraction and capacitance voltage C V measurements.

Measurement of the field effect mobility of the devices was accomplished by grounding the source contact and the backside of the wafers and applying a fixed voltage of 50 mV to the drain contact. The gate voltage was swept to obtain an I Vcurve. Mobility values were then calculated from the extracted data.

An increased oxidation rate was observed in the MEO process. However this effect may be controlled to produce an acceptable gate oxide thickness in the range of 600 to 900 . It is presently believed that the oxidation rate of MEO may be controlled reduced by limiting controlling the exposure of the wafers to alumina. For example as described above the alumina present during oxidation was limited to alumina disks disposed adjacent the SiC wafers being oxidized.

The peak channel mobility for the NO wafers represents a 67 increase over the value reported by Chung above. As shown in the turn on characteristics were only slightly diminished on the implanted channel MOSFETs with impressive peak channel mobilities of 48 and 34 cm Vs for MEO and NO respectively despite the 1 10cmAl implant.

Olafsson also reported sensitivity of the MEO oxide to rapid thermal annealing RTA . In order to form good power MOSFETs it may be desirable to utilize an RTA to sinter the ohmic contacts for low resistance electrical stability and or structural integrity. In the case of the MEO wafers although the particular mechanism is not well understood it is encouraging to note that the high quality MOS interface survived a high temperature RTA with little change in the MOSFET characteristics.

In light of the improved performance of the MEO MOSFET an investigation of the MEO oxide was performed. SIMS analysis showed a nitrogen concentration of only 10cmuniformly distributed through the oxide. This value is close to the SIMS detection limit for nitrogen and is orders of magnitude less than the mid 10cmconcentrations typically required for effective nitrogen passivation of the 4H SiC MOS interface. Thus it appears that nitridation may not be the source of mobility enhancement in the MEO wafers. The SIMS analysis results shown in confirm the presence of metal impurities Fe and Cr in high concentrations as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 559 068. It is noteworthy that iron was not only present in a high concentration but that the high iron concentration extended all the way to the SiO SiC interface.

According to embodiments of the invention improved 4H SiC MOS interfaces have been obtained using both NO and MEO based processes. An NO anneal has been known to provide better results at higher temperatures. However previous processes have been limited to 1175 C. due to temperature limitations of quartz furnace tubes. In some embodiments of the present invention thermal oxidation and NO annealing in SiC tubes that are coated with SiC using chemical vapor deposition CVD may overcome limitations of conventional processing techniques to allow process temperatures of for example 1300 C. or more which may provide substantial improvement over an 1175 C. NO anneal with in some cases a 50 reduction in the Dat 0.2 eV below Eand a 67 increase in the inversion channel mobility to 49 cm Vs. According to some embodiments of the invention the MEO process may result in even better performance with the peak channel mobility of 69 cm Vs at room temperature increasing to 160 cm Vs at 150 C. In MEO MOSFETs having 1 10cmAl implanted channels the mobility remains a respectable 48 cm Vs. However in some variations of the MEO process it may be desirable to remove unwanted contamination from the gate oxide that may provide mobile carriers at the SiO SiC interface that may affect threshold voltages.

Implanted channel MOSFET devices formed according to embodiments of the invention including annealing in NO at 1300 C. and having a channel doping of 1 10cmexhibited channel mobility of 35 cm Vs. The channel mobility of implanted channel devices is expected to be lower than that of epitaxial channel devices due to implant damage.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

