---

title: Selectable size fragmentation warhead
abstract: A fragmentation warhead includes a cylindrical body, a pair of concentric cylindrical liners made of plastic, and an explosive charge disposed within the innermost liner. The innermost liner includes patterns formed thereon of recessed areas and solid liner elements. The outermost liner's interior surface includes patterns formed thereon of raised areas and solid liner elements. The outermost cylindrical liner is arranged to be adjustable relative to the innermost liner through rotation or translation. The explosive charge is disposed adjacent to the interior of the innermost cylindrical liner. Upon detonation of the explosive charge and because of the random dampening and temporal delay in transmitting the detonation energy through various locations of the randomly aligned cylindrical liners, the warhead body is caused to shear and break into fragments with different sizes. It can be understood that adjustment of the outermost cylindrical liner can be used to influence the size of fragments ultimately generated when the warhead breaks apart through detonation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08272330&OS=08272330&RS=08272330
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08272330
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100222
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Warhead fragmentation effectiveness is determined by the number mass shape and velocity of the fragments. By using a controlled fragmentation design warhead fragmentation can generally be achieved quickly and cost effectively. Exemplary controlled fragmentation techniques are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 491 694 4 312 274 4 745 864 5 131 329 and 5 337 673.

In general conventional designs use cutter liners that form fragments by generating a complex pattern of high velocity penetrators for fragmenting the shell. Although these conventional fragmentation designs have proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional functional cost and safety improvements that minimize the warhead weight reduce manufacture expenses and advance current United States Insensitive Munition IM requirements.

What is therefore needed is a controlled fragmentation technique through the use of patterned liners which introduce shear stress into the warhead body and creates the desired fragmentation patterns. Fragment size fragment numbers and patterns thereof may be influenced through novel liner configurations. The need for such a controlled fragmentation technique has heretofore remained unsatisfied.

The present invention satisfies these needs and presents a munition or warhead such as a projectile and an associated method for generating controlled fragmentation patterns. According to the present invention warhead fragmentation is achieved more efficiently and more cost effectively than conventional techniques through the use of relatively inexpensively formed plastic liners with a predetermined pattern of recessed areas plastic liners with a predetermined pattern of raised areas and plastic liners with a predetermined pattern of cutouts. According to the present invention the shear and stamp liner recessed areas raised areas and cutouts respectively can create contours of localized transitional regions with high gradients of pressures velocities strains and strain rates acting as stress and strain concentration factors. Unstable thermoplastic shear adiabatic shear eventually transfers the entire burden of localized strain to a finite number of shear planes leading to a shell break up and formation of fragments.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the warhead includes liners that are disposed inside the warhead body one of which liner may be manually positioned from outside the warhead which include predetermined patterns that are created with areas of different overall thicknesses presented to the exploding core such allowing the detonation shock wave to correspondingly propagate into the fragmenting case through various effective thicknesses of liner material. As a result the explosion produces a complex pattern of shear planes in the warhead body causing the case break up and formation of fragments with various predetermined sizes. This design is distinguishable from existing fragmentation liner technologies that attempt to score or cut the warhead body.

One of the advantages of the present embodiment compared to existing technologies is the cost effectiveness of the manufacturing process of the present design in that it is faster and more economical to fabricate and to pattern plastic liners as opposed to notching or cutting a steel warhead body itself. An advantage of the present invention is that the use of plastic material reduces the overall weight of the warhead compared with use of other materials. Fortuitously the use of plastic is also a great safety feature. An unwanted ignition of the explosive due to the heat of launch would normally be catastrophic as well as fratricidal but here the plastic liners in this invention cover s the explosive inside the casing body. In the event of unwanted heat ignition the plastic which is also low melt temperature material would melt to seal the explosive which adds to safety. Moreover the melted plastic would also flow and could push out overflows that are usually provided in these rounds. Because of the plastic neither sudden pressure nor heat ignition inside the round would therefore be as catastrophic. Therefore choice of low melt temperature plastic as liner materials in this invention adds safety to the round. This benefit is favorable consistent with current Insensitive Munition IM requirements in minimizing accidental ammunition explosion due to fire hazards.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide means for generating fragments upon detonation of a warhead with a relatively less expensive to manufacture structure of plastic liner components and 

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead which generates fragments upon detonation wherein the size and shape of such fragments may be selected through liner design and 

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead which generates fragments upon detonation wherein the size and shape of such fragments may be selected prior to detonation by manually dialing in a change to positioning of liner components within said warhead and 

It is a yet another object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead of increased safety and sensitivity against unwanted fratricide of other warheads by reason of melting properties of the plastic materials within the warhead providing protection there against.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention and in light of the following drawings in which 

The time delay between the moments when the shock waves arrive is determined by the differences between the detonation velocity of the explosive and the shock wave propagation speed of liner material in various thicknesses of the liner material respectively. It can be appreciated that this generates a high gradient of pressures velocities and strains between parts of the liners acting as stress and strain concentration factors . Unstable thermoplastic shear adiabatic shear eventually transfers the entire burden of localized strain to a finite number of shear planes leading to the warhead body break up and formation of fragments. As a result a predetermined pattern of liner recessed areas or non recessed areas whether or not lined up under a cutout area in outer liner can stamp out a pattern of localized transitional regions so as to cause the warhead body to shear and break into fragments with controlled sizes. The thinnest liner material presented to the explosion would be a recessed area lined up under a rectangular hole in . Twice as much material would be a non recessed area lined up under a rectangular hole in and three times as much material would be a non recessed area not lined up under a rectangular hole in .

The thickness of a liner in various locations and type of explosive help determine the fragment results. A selectively controlled pattern of recessed areas also here in called gaps can comprise sections of equal size or alternatively sections ranging in size from a relatively large size to smaller sections. The larger size of the intact non gap sections is selected for more heavily armored targets while the smaller size of intact non gap sections is applicable for lightly armored or soft targets. Consequently the pattern efficiently enables variable and selective lethality of the warhead that can range from maximum lethality for more heavily armored targets to a maximum lethality for lightly armored or soft targets. shows a cutaway view of the generally cylindrically shaped warhead . Shown through open end of the warhead is at the core an explosive surrounded by the also generally cylindrically shaped stationary grid . As was described elsewhere when explosive detonates the explosive pattern through open areas in adjustable grid is different than at solid areas in liner . These differences in explosive patterns will ultimately lead to analogous fragments in the fragmenting warhead housing . The respective sizes of the grids warhead housing thicknesses lengths and or diameters are not exactly to scale in these drawings . Adjustable grid is turned around from as currently depicted or slid back and forth in place or some combination thereof placed into the open end of the warhead shown in between the inside of housing and surrounding the stationary grid until knob on grid is flush to the end of warhead . The depth on lip on knob is kept short enough so that diameter of knob generally is equal to outside diameter of warhead . Knob preferably has gradation markings to allow a soldier to dial in desired sizes for the fragments to be formed by the exploding fragmenting warhead housing . Exact position for marked gradations are learned through extensive trial and error in the manufacturing testing and prove out processes . It must be noted that adjustable grid may be pulled out or returned pushed back in in lateral movements as well as rotated through the knob in either clockwise or counter clockwise rotations. As will be further described all these movements will have an ultimate influence on sizes for the fragments to be formed by an exploding fragmenting warhead housing . Although the overall length of adjustable grid shown here is essentially equal to length to that of stationary grid of the length can be made shorter than length . The effect of shortening so that when the knob is flush to warhead housing end is that adjustable grid cannot reach all the way into the warhead. The innermost length of the stationary grid will not be screened any more by any portion of adjustable grid . The effect of this is the innermost front end of warhead will generally produce larger sizes of fragments than the portion of stationary grid that is still screened by adjustable grid . In the general effect of positioning the grids might be illustrated. With like square patterns a stationary grid in is shown with square mostly open gap areas whereas an adjustable grid is shown here to have mostly closed square areas in like patterns in . As closed areas in hypothetically are slid over open areas the open areas become blocked into smaller areas shown there in . These smaller areas will lead to differently sized and shaped fragments of the warhead housing than the fully open areas would have. It will be appreciated that many positions and size gaps may be achieved by rotating and sliding in or out the adjustable grid . may illustrate how an adjustable grid may be rotated directions or pulled out direction e.g. to achieve various gaps or blocked areas e.g. It should also be remembered that the formed gaps on the grids may also be widely varied to produce different fragment sizes. The shapes of individual gaps can be widely varied holes parallelograms curved shapes etc. the size of individual gaps percentage of liner space as gap vs. solid e.g. the patterns of the gaps on the grids fields of different cutouts as desired and orientation of the patterns turned 90 degrees from one another e.g. can all be altered to advantage in designing the ultimate warhead fragments. Another variation might be to provide an additional plastic liner which is fully solid disposed between the inside of housing and adjustable grid which can further influence the type size and shapes of ultimate fragments of exploding fragmentation warhead housing .

In the adjustable grid cylindrical liner is now arranged to be smooth on the outside but on its inside surface there is a checkerboard pattern of rectangular raised surfaces . The height of the raised surfaces is equal to about a thickness of the liner so that a raised surface on the liner presents twice the thickness of a non raised surface. The side of the square raised surface is about equal to one third the side length of a recessed area in the stationary liner of . The areas in between the raised surfaces are labeled as . Cylindrical liner is meant to snugly envelop stationary liner so that the rectangular raised surfaces fit in to the recessed areas in the stationary liner since the height of the raised surfaces is approximately equal to the depth of the recessed areas in the stationary liner . It is possible for the raised surfaces to be moved about within the recessed areas in all directions since as mentioned the side of the square raised surface is about equal to one third the side length of a recessed area . The movement may be done by rotating adjustable grid clockwise counter clockwise or by pulling out pushing in of the adjustable grid as may be desired. Moving about the raised surfaces within the recessed areas of course will influence the fragmentation patterns on warhead housing . An explosion pattern that encounters a raised surface after passing through some part of stationary liner will experience plastic material of three times the thickness of a liner parts of the explosion that miss the square outline of a raised surface will only experience material of two times the thickness of a liner with air in between stationary liner and adjustable grid liner at those points .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

