---

title: Framework for generating sentiment data for electronic content
abstract: Methods, systems, and techniques for generating sentiment data are provided. Example embodiments provide a Sentiment Thesaurus Framework (STF), which provides a sentiment vocabulary meeting a set of criteria and a sentiment thesaurus according to certain connectedness rules. In one embodiment, the STF provides the sentiment thesaurus by relating connected adjective word-senses to valid sentiment adjective word-senses. The degree of connectedness is limited to one shift in meaning from one adjective to another, which implies at most two non-satellite or axle adjectives between a valid sentiment and a related adjective word-sense.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08396820&OS=08396820&RS=08396820
owner: 
number: 08396820
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100428
---
The present disclosure relates to methods systems and techniques for describing content using sentiment and in particular to methods systems and techniques for generating opinion data about content using a sentiment vocabulary and a sentiment thesaurus.

The barrage of electronic content available over a wide variety of information paths such as electronic retail sites and portals search engines electronic news and media services corporate and private blog and news group postings social networks etc. has lead to a growing need to filter organize categorize and rank content in more intelligent ways. A typical individual connected online is confronted with more than what s he can read or digest in a day let alone an hour. In addition finding particular types of content products and other information is difficult especially when one is not sure of what to search for because the search results are over extensive often creating a problem of finding a needle in a haystack when trying to discover information.

Some social network sites news and other online environments support an ability for a user to tag content typically with words that are nouns to allow a user to categorize the content perhaps for finding it again in the future sending to another colleague or friend or for example to create a shorthand label for further retrieval. These tags can act as placeholders or links for the content. Users can then use tools for example to retrieve all content tagged with a certain noun. One difficulty created by such solutions is that tagging something with a noun does not provide an ability for a user to express his or her opinion about that content it rather simply allows the user to name that content. In order to express an opinion typically a ranking mechanism needs to be concurrently provided. Such ranking systems however commonly lack uniformity and an ability to communicate to a downstream reader the logic used behind the rank.

Similarly many online retail sites have created an ability for users to rank products and other offerings so that other future purchasers reviewers etc. can hopefully gain useful insights as to whether such products or offerings would be suitable for their needs. Many such systems allow an extensive text field for hand written comments. These may be laborious and time consuming to read but often do provide insight as to why the reviewer gave the product the rank s he did. However even with such comments available these ranking systems are in the end limited by inconsistency as to the persons assigning ranking values. For example a sixteen year old s 4 star movie may not be the same as a sixty year old s. Thus typically in the online world there lack rules for indicating when something ought to be ranked one way versus another.

In addition much content for example that present in news articles personal blog postings online reviews corporate or public websites inherently contains its own opinion about whatever is the subject of the content. For example a news article may have a positive or negative slant on a topic. Such sentiment information can be helpful to people wishing to filter searches to exclude or include only certain types of information. For example a person may only wish to look at positive reviews of a new movie that just hit the theatres. There is presently no accurate way to find out this information. Traditionally information providers such as search engines have attempted to mine the content for example for the presence of certain negative or positive words to help classify the tone of the content and or such words and phrases might be included in a text search. The search results are accordingly limited by the lack of consistency of sentiment expressed in the content and that it is difficult to separate negative ratings of content from things like content about negative topics.

Embodiments described herein provide enhanced computer and network based methods systems and techniques for providing sentiment data to be used with electronic content. Example embodiments provide a Sentiment Thesaurus Framework STF and STF System for generating a sentiment vocabulary and a sentiment thesaurus for use by downstream users and systems to obtain precise sentiment data to use in many different scenarios including for example to rate tag organize and or find content. In exemplary embodiments the STF evaluates adjectives according to a set of rules heuristics and determines a sentiment vocabulary. The sentiment vocabulary preferably contains only adjectives and in some embodiments only the certain senses meanings of these adjectives that are valid sentiments. A set of rules heuristics is used to determine sentiment words where each sentiment word can each describe an individual piece of content in and of itself. In such embodiments some senses meanings of these same adjectives may not be valid sentiments even though some are valid. From this vocabulary and using a lexical database of relationships between adjectives the STF then determines which words or more precisely which meanings of words are closely enough connected to be considered synonyms for purposes of inclusion in a sentiment thesaurus. In one embodiment a set of connectedness rules that express allowable connectedness is used to determine valid synonymous relationships hence synonyms. These rules dictate how large a shift in meaning or context may occur between adjectives and or adjective word senses before they are no longer considered synonyms for the purpose of the sentiment thesaurus. Thus the STF generates its own definition of what adjectives or adjective word senses are synonyms for the purpose of the thesaurus and what adjectives or adjective word senses are not.

A sentiment vocabulary and sentiment thesaurus may be used with structured content such as a book having discrete parts and or with unstructured content such as web blog postings news rooms etc. In some embodiments the STF is provided to third party systems for example large electronic booksellers or other retailers to generate and use sentiment data as away to describe content such as to rate electronic content using a sentiment thesaurus to tag content with opinion data in the form of sentiment adjectives to search for content based upon sentiment tags and possibly other metadata to access and display content along with sentiment data and the like. Such third party systems can integrate the sentiment thesaurus and or the techniques for generating and or customizing its own sentiment thesaurus at many different levels including for example to provide direct or indirect access to a sentiment thesaurus or to techniques for generating valid sentiment adjectives.

For ease of discussion this disclosure may refer to adjectives rather than adjective word senses. A word sense refers to a particular semantic use i.e. meaning of a word. It is to be understood however that the techniques methods and systems described herein apply to either adjectives or adjective word senses individual meanings of adjectives . Some embodiments may operate on the granularity of word senses of adjectives others at the granularity of adjectives. In general the description herein applies to both unless otherwise indicated. In addition although described primarily with respect to adjective word senses and to adjectives the techniques of STF may be useful to create a variety of other tools as well including vocabularies and thesaurus for different parts of speech and for different end uses. Also although certain terms are used primarily herein other terms could be used interchangeably to yield equivalent embodiments and examples. In addition terms may have alternate spellings which may or may not be explicitly mentioned and all such variations of terms are intended to be included.

In at least one embodiment that operates on the granularity of word senses the sentiment thesaurus is used generate valid adjective word senses that express sentiment. In a traditional thesaurus typically all word senses of a single word are indicated as synonyms of a second word when the word itself is a synonym of the second word. In the sentiment thesaurus produced by the STF only word senses that are considered valid because for example they comply with a set of sentiment rules are included as synonyms of another adjective word sense. In addition the synonymic relationships are expanded to include certain shifts in meaning but not others thereby expanding the notion of what is considered a synonym. These are dictated by the connectedness rules described further below.

In one embodiment the sentiment vocabulary generation engine of the STF uses a set of fifteen rules heuristics to determine whether an adjective word sense is or is not a valid sentiment. Other rules and or other modifications of these rules may be similarly incorporated. Also adaptations for a courser granularity of adjectives as opposed to adjective word sense may also be applied. Specifically according to one embodiment adjective word senses are excluded from the generated sentiment vocabulary if 

Once the sentiment thesaurus is created various third party content related tools can incorporate the thesaurus to implement sentiment related functionality. For example a user can use the tools to access and display content using sentiment data to tag content with sentiment and or to search content by sentiment.

Third party content related tools that integrate the techniques and tools of the STF may take into account other aspects that help to derive usefulness from the sentiment data. For example sentiment data is generally relevant only with respect to a context. For example when applying the sentiment humorous to film the classification of a movie as a comedy or a horror film will influence what humorous means the sentiment of humorous may mean something different in the two scenarios. If one were to just search for films that are rated the most humorous without respect to genre a humorous horror film might never be returned as a result of the search for humorous films since the percentage of humorous sentiment associated with horror films are likely a much lower number than the percentage of humorous sentiment associated with comedy films i.e. all comedy films may be returned . For content that doesn t have naturally associated metadata e.g. or other classifications some kind of categorization for which to associate the sentiment also may need to be established to get meaningful results. A notion of currency also may influence how sentiment data influences results. Over time sentiment will change it may affect how results are served up in for example a system that uses sentiment to determine information or to find things. Certain sentiments applicable at one point like cool hip and trendy may later become outdated corny old fashioned etc. Accordingly sentiment data may be layered on top of other characterizing metadata a notion of recency etc.

As mentioned in some embodiments the thesaurus generation engine uses WordNet as a lexical database to determine which adjective word senses are related to which other adjective word senses and in what manner. WordNet is a publically available large lexical database of English. As described by its supplier 

A lexical database such as WordNet stores information for a variety of adjectives whether or not they or any of their meanings comprise valid expressions of sentiment. illustrates an example entry of adjective word sense information for the adjective blunt as stored in a WordNet lexical database of English terms. Entry shows a description for the word blunt. The word blunt includes an adjective indicator followed by a number of senses here 4 followed by some additional information including an index of each of the 4 senses. Each index is a reference to an indicator in a data file that describes the relationships of that word sense to other word senses. Here the four meanings of blunt include blunt in the sense of having a rounded edge sense blunt in the sense of not sharp sense blunt in the sense of candid forthright . . . sense and blunt in the sense of stark crude . . . sense .

Applying the 15 rules for excluding word senses from being valid sentiments only two senses sense and sense survive. That is sense of blunt meaning have a rounded edge as used for example in the phrase thick marks made by a blunt pencil violates at least rule 7 the adjective word sense describes content in terms of its existing as a tangible thing. Sense of blunt meaning not sharp as used for example in the phrase a blunt instrument also violates at least rule 7.

Each related word sense entry contains a pointer indicating a type of relationship called a pointer in WordNet an index to the word sense and an indicator of the part of speech. In the lexicon of WordNet several pointers are available. The pointers demonstrated here and used in example embodiments of the connectedness rules are the pointer which indicates an also see relationship and the pointer which indicates a similar to relationship. The pointer indicates an antonym relationship. To determine valid sentiment relationships to build the thesaurus as will be described further below the STF connectedness rules currently look to related word sense entries that are adjectives and and pointers. In other embodiments other pointers and information may be used.

The relationship the also see relationship indicates a shift subtle or otherwise in the meaning of the indexed word sense whereas the relationship the similar to relationship indicates a more specific meaning of the indexed word sense. For example for the indexed word sense 00763901 of the adjective direct the word sense 01222360 of the adjective honest is considered one shift in meaning. Whereas the indexed word sense 00764484 of the adjective blunt is considered a more specific meaning of the same word sense of direct. For the purposes of the STF word senses that indicate shifts in meaning occur between axle adjectives adjective word senses whereas word senses that yield more specificity in meaning are considered spoke adjectives adjective word senses of their respective axle adjectives adjective word senses . WordNet adjectives see indicator are axle adjectives according to the STF and WordNet satellite adjectives see indicator are spoke adjectives according to the STF. These relationships are illustrated with respect to described below.

As also can be seen in the related word senses shown in the entry for the 00763901 index for one word sense of the word direct an axle adjective are listed as entries and . These fully describe the related adjective word senses that comply with the STF connectedness rules to sense of the word blunt. 

More specifically the following eight connectedness rules heuristics describe the spoke and axle connections that define the related adjectives that related to a valid sentiment in a sentiment thesaurus as illustrated in 

The eighth connectedness rule indicates the most distant relationship that the STF uses to form a thesaurus entry. In exemplary embodiments the STF provides synonymic relationships that convey at most one shift in meaning. That is at most two axle adjective word senses can connect a related adjective word sense to a valid sentiment adjective word sense . Other embodiments may employ different heuristics.

Thus referring back to the entries illustrated in the word sense blunt sense of shown in entry is a spoke adjective word sense of the axle adjective word sense direct . Entries for the word sense for bluff brutal flat footed man to man no nonsense plain unvarnished pointed square straightforward straight and upfront refer to other satellite adjectives words senses or spokes related to the 00764484 blunt word sense through the axle adjective word sense entry for direct. Entry for the axle adjective word sense entry for honest is related to the blunt entry through the direct axle adjective word sense entry an spoke axle axle connection . Entry for the spoke adjective word sense for downright is related to the honest entry thus entry for the blunt spoke adjective word sense is related to entry for the downright spoke adjective word sense through two axle adjectives only one shift in meaning has occurred between the indicated word senses direct and honest. These connectedness relationships are illustrated in .

Of note the word senses of adjectives in column need not be valid sentiments themselves part of the role of the thesaurus is to guarantee access to a valid sentiment even when an adjective is entered that is not a valid sentiment. In the excerpt illustrated in the only adjective word senses that are valid sentiments because they pass the 15 exclusionary rules are 00764484 blunt 00764484 candid 00764484 forthright 00764484 frank 00763901 direct 01222360 honest 01222360 honorable 00765173 brutal 00556881 blunt and 00556881 crude. Yet using the sentiment thesaurus these valid sentiments can be retrieved even if an adjective that is not a sentiment is looked up in the sentiment thesaurus. The related adjective word senses in column that are not valid sentiments break any number of the 15 rules i.e. match the exclusionary rules including rules 2 11 and 15. Also again as noted the example excerpt includes word senses of the various adjectives. In other embodiments the adjectives themselves are used any valid word sense of an adjective will yield a valid sentiment adjective.

Example embodiments described herein provide applications tools data structures and other support to implement an STF to be used to derive a sentiment vocabulary and or a sentiment thesaurus. Other embodiments of the described techniques may be used for other purposes. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as data formats and code sequences etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described techniques. The embodiments described also can be practiced without some of the specific details described herein or with other specific details such as changes with respect to the ordering of the code flow different code flows etc. Thus the scope of the techniques and or functions described are not limited by the particular order selection or decomposition of steps described with reference to any particular routine.

The computing system may comprise one or more server and or client computing systems and may span distributed locations. In addition each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Moreover the various blocks of the Sentiment Thesaurus Framework may physically reside on one or more machines which use standard e.g. TCP IP or proprietary interprocess communication mechanisms to communicate with each other.

In the embodiment shown computer system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more Central Processing Units CPU Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display etc. other computer readable media and one or more network connections . The STF is shown residing in memory . In other embodiments some portion of the contents some of or all of the components of the STF may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The components of the STF preferably execute on one or more CPUs and manage the generation of a sentiment vocabulary and sentiment thesaurus as described herein. Other code or programs and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more CPUs . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments embedded in other software may not provide means for user input or display.

In a typical embodiment the STF includes one or more sentiment vocabulary generation engines one or more sentiment thesaurus generation engines sentiment vocabulary data and sentiment thesaurus data . As describe with reference to the sentiment vocabulary generation engine are responsible for generating a valid sentiment vocabulary based upon a set of rules for example the 15 exclusionary principles. The sentiment thesaurus engine builds a sentiment thesaurus based upon a lexical dictionary and the sentiment vocabulary . Techniques for building the sentiment thesaurus are described with reference to .

In some embodiments a sentiment application programming interface API is made available to access the vocabulary data thesaurus data and the techniques for generating the same. In addition in some embodiments a sentiment query processor is supported which provides an interface for retrieving valid sentiments from the thesaurus data . In at least some embodiments various components are provided external to the STF system and are available potentially over one or more networks . Other and or different modules may be implemented. In addition the STF may interact via a network with application or client code that incorporates aspects of the STF one or more client computing systems that utilize the vocabulary thesaurus etc. and or one or more third party syntactic semantic data providers that may provide for example a lexical database for use in creating the thesaurus . Also of note the sentiment thesaurus data repository and or the sentiment vocabulary data repository may be provided external to the STF as well for example in a knowledge base accessible over one or more networks .

In an example embodiment components modules of the STF are implemented using standard programming techniques. However a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Smalltalk etc. functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme etc. procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula etc. scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript etc. declarative e.g. SQL Prolog etc. etc.

The embodiments described above may also use well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. However the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques as well for example as an executable running on a single CPU computer system or alternately decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more CPUs. Some embodiments are illustrated as executing concurrently and asynchronously and communicating using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported by an STF implementation.

In addition programming interfaces to the data stored as part of the STF e.g. in the data repositories and can be available by standard means such as through C C C and Java APIs libraries for accessing files databases or other data repositories through scripting languages such as XML or through Web servers FTP servers or other types of servers providing access to stored data. The vocabulary and thesaurus data repositories and may be implemented as one or more database systems file systems or any other method known in the art for storing such information or any combination of the above including implementation using distributed computing techniques.

Also the example STF may be implemented in a distributed environment comprising multiple even heterogeneous computer systems and networks. For example in one embodiment the sentiment vocabulary engine the sentiment thesaurus engine and the thesaurus data repository are all located in physically different computer systems. In another embodiment various modules of the STF are hosted each on a separate server machine and may be remotely located from the tables which are stored in the vocabulary and thesaurus repositories and . Also one or more of the modules may themselves be distributed pooled or otherwise grouped such as for load balancing reliability or security reasons. Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques of described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP etc. etc. Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions of an STF.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the STF may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium e.g. a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection . Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be transmitted via generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums such as media including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computing system configurations.

In block when the process has determined that the designated valid sentiment is a spoke satellite adjective the process then determines whether a potential related adjective is an axle adjective. If so the process continues at block otherwise ends. In block the process records the axle adjective as a new related adjective is a spoke axle connection under connectedness rule 3 . In block the process determines from the lexical database whether there is a related axle adjective and if so searches its entry to determine and record all of its spoke satellite adjective connections under connectedness rule 5 spoke axle spoke connections . Then in block for the same axle adjective if the process determines the existence of another axle adjective then it records that as a new related adjective under connectedness rule 7 spoke axle axle . This is permitted as the connection represents one shift in meaning. In block the process records as related adjectives any related spoke adjectives to the axle adjective determined in block under connectedness rule 8 spoke axle axle spoke and then ends or continues other processing.

At this point the process has searched the lexical database starting with the designated valid sentiment adjective word sense and determined all related adjective word senses that meet the connectedness rules for inclusion in the sentiment thesaurus.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example the methods systems and techniques for generating sentiment data discussed herein are applicable to other architectures other than those that take advantage of a WordNet database architecture. Also the methods and systems discussed herein are applicable to differing protocols communication media optical wireless cable etc. and devices such as wireless handsets electronic organizers personal digital assistants portable email machines game machines pagers navigation devices such as GPS receivers etc. .

