---

title: Method and apparatus for identifying video program material or content via differential signals
abstract: A system for identification of video content in a video signal is provided by providing a difference signal between an input signal and the delayed input signal. An alternative embodiment includes providing frequency coefficients from one or more video frames along a curve, or from a region of the video frame. In another embodiment a filter bank provides a real time or near real time frequency analysis of a video signal to provide identification. Other attributes of the video signal or transport stream may be combined with closed caption data or closed caption text for identification purposes. Example attributes include DVS/SAP information, time code information, histograms, and or rendered video or pictures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761545&OS=08761545&RS=08761545
owner: Rovi Technologies Corporation
number: 08761545
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101119
---
The present invention relates to identification of video content e.g. video program material such as movies and or television TV programs via a sound channel.

Previous methods for identifying video content comprising the sound channel included watermarking each frame of the video program or adding a watermark to the audio sound track. However the watermarking process requires that the video content be watermarked prior to distribution and or transmission.

An embodiment for identifying video programs and or movies or the like utilizes the storage of difference signals and the comparison of one or more known or identified difference signal s to a received unknown video signal which has been processed to provide a difference signal. For example a difference signal in the pixel or frequency transform domain may include difference signals of frames or fields of a video signal. In providing a difference frame or field signal much of the static scenery is removed or attenuated and thus provides a smaller set of signals representing motional vectors movement and or scene change to store and analyze for identification. For example the motional information from video frames of a database or library is compared to motional information of a received video program signal to provide identification.

The difference signal may be analyzed in terms of transforms and or histograms. For example Fourier Transforms such as a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT Fast Fourier Transform FFT Cosine Transform CT Discrete Cosine Transform DCT and Wavelet Transform WT are examples of transforms. In providing a difference signal a delay element or module is included. This delay element or module may delay a signal a fixed or time varying amount. For example the amount of delay may be a function of the time code read or associated with the received unknown video signal and or the video programs signals in a database or library of identified video programs. In another example the delay element may delay a video signal by a fixed amount such as substantially a period or duration of one television field or frame.

Yet another embodiment includes identifying video programs analyzing vertical video frequencies of the incoming two dimensional video signal. A variant of this embodiment is to arbitrarily rotate such as in a rotation range of 0 to 180 degrees inclusive the image pixels and slice one or more lines of one or more slopes to provide a signal for analysis such as in terms of frequency content via transforms and or histograms as previously mentioned .

For another embodiment an alternative to finding the frequency transformation of a signal utilizes one or more filter banks. For example a real time spectrum analyzer utilizing one or more filter banks provides for one or more frequency bands the relative frequency component or strength as a function of time and or television line period of the horizontal and or vertical direction or vice versa .

An embodiment may include masking or including a region in a displayed area for analysis in terms of transforms filter banks and or histograms. For example an upper and or lower portion of one or more frames of the video signal is provided for analysis while excluding a portion of the center.

For compressed video signal formats such as MPEGxx I B and or P frames comprise a set of frames or group of pictures GOP which may be provided for identification purposes. The set of frames or GOP may provide a difference signal wherein one or more I B and or P frames are used for identification purposes. For example a difference between successive I B and or P frames provides data for identifying a video program. In a further example a difference between I and P or I and B or P and B frames provides data for identifying a video program. In another example within a group of pictures GOP a difference between I P and or B frames may be derived to provide one or more difference signals for identification. Identification with difference frames may be associated with time code wherein time code provides additional information for linking or associating to one or more difference frame signal.

In another example in a MPEGxx format I and or P frames are reference frames for a GOP so the difference in values of two dimensional pixels and or discrete cosine transforms DCT of I and or P frames or reference frames of one or more GOP may be provided for identification purposes. For instance a difference signal from two dimensional pixels and or DCT of I and or P frames may be combined with other information such as time code DVS Descriptive Video System SAP Secondary Audio Program signals closed caption data soundtrack signal s and or text data for identifying a video program or movie.

In some video program material the dialog from the sound track is substantially dedicated to a particular channel such as a center channel in a multiple sound channel system. This dedicated dialog channel may be processed into text data via a speech processor or voice recognition algorithm. However in many movies or video programs the music and voice portions of the sound track are mixed together.

Accordingly an embodiment provides a method of separating voices or speech information from the soundtrack which then can be coupled to a speech processor or voice recognition algorithm for conversion into text. The converted text from a video source or movie is then compared with a library or database of dialog word information of corresponding known movies or video programs for identification of the unknown video material.

Embodiments include converting audio signals from the Descriptive Video Service DVS or Secondary Audio Program SAP to text for identification purposes and converting an audio signal mixed in with music to text via filtering modulation and or nonlinear transformations. Pertaining to the latter method modulation may include amplitude modulation e.g. single sideband frequency spectrum translation and or one or more filters that may include frequency multipliers or distortion generation as part of a system to convert an audio soundtrack signal into text.

Thus in an embodiment involving modulation an audio channel or sound track is band pass filtered in a narrow band manner which may be generally not intelligible to an average listener e.g. because the band pass audio signal is too low in frequency content so as to provide a muffled effect . By using frequency translation for example translating a lower frequency narrow band spectrum to a high frequency spectrum sufficient intelligibility is provided for a person and or for a speech processor voice recognition whereby identification of the movie or video program is provided. The narrow band filtering provides rejection from the music of mostly the musical signals or frequencies that are mixed in with the voice information.

Another embodiment involves narrow band pass filtering of the sound track to substantially remove music. However this narrow band pass filter may include a filter bank of one or more narrower bandwidth filters each coupled to one or more distortion generating circuits or nonlinear transformations to provide harmonics of the frequencies passing through the filter bank. This provides a re creation of lost harmonics of the voice signal to provide intelligibility for voice recognition or speech processing. Accordingly illustrate various embodiments pertaining to modulation and or harmonic or distortion generation nonlinear transformation for identifying a movie or video program for example via processing an audio channel or soundtrack .

Another embodiment provides identification of video content without necessarily altering the video content via fingerprinting or watermarking prior to distribution or transmission. Descriptive Video Service DVS or Secondary Audio Program SAP data is added or inserted with the video program for digital video disc DVD Blu ray disc or transmission. The DVS or SAP data which generally is an audio signal may be represented by an alpha numeric text code or text data via a speech to text converter e.g. speech recognition software . Text data or speech consumes much less bits or bytes than video or musical signals. Therefore example alternatives may include one or more of the following functions and or systems 

In one embodiment a short sampling of the video program is made such as anywhere from one TV field s duration e.g. 1 60 or 1 50 of a second to one or more seconds. In this example the DVS or SAP signal exists so it is possible to identify the video content or program material based on sampling a duration of one or more frame or field. Along with capturing the DVS or SAP signal a pixel or frequency analysis of the video signal maybe done as well for identification purposes.

For example a relative average picture level in one or more section e.g. quadrant or divided frame or field during the capture or sampling interval may be used.

Another embodiment may include histogram analysis of for example the luminance Y and or signal color e.g. R Y and or B Y or I Q U and or V or equivalent such as Pr and or Pb channels. The histogram may map one or more pixels in a group throughout at least a portion of the video frame for identification purposes. For a composite S Video and or Y C video signal or RF signal a distribution of the color subcarrier signal may be provided for identification of a program material. For example a distribution of subcarrier amplitudes and or phases e.g. for an interval within or including 0 to 360 degrees in selected pixels of lines and or fields or frames may be provided to identify video program material. The distribution of subcarrier phases or subcarrier amplitudes may include a color subcarrier signal whose saturation or amplitude level is above or below a selected level. Another distribution pertaining to color information for a color subcarrier signal includes a frequency spectrum distribution for example of sidebands upper and or lower of the subcarrier frequency such as for NTSC PAL and or SECAM which may be used for identification of a video program. Windowed or short time Fourier Transforms may be used for providing a distribution for the luminance color and or subcarrier video signals e.g. for identifying video program material . Another example may include a histogram of DCT coefficients for I B and or P frames of a compressed video source such as an MPEGxx video stream.

An example of a histogram divides at least a portion of a frame into a set of pixels. Each pixel is assigned a signal level. The histogram thus includes a range of pixel values e.g. 0 255 for an 8 bit system on one axis and the number of pixels falling into the range of pixel values are tabulated accumulated and or integrated.

In an example the histogram has 256 bins ranging from 0 to 255. A frame of video is analyzed for pixel values at each location f x y .

If there are 1000 pixels in the frame of video a dark scene would have most of the histogram distribution in the 0 10 range for example. In particular if the scene is totally black the histogram would have a reading of 1000 for bin 0 and zero for bins 1 through 255. Of course the number of bins may include a group of two or more pixels.

Alternatively in the frequency domain Fourier DCT or Wavelet analysis may be used for analyzing one or more video field and or frame during the sampling or capture interval.

Here the coefficients of Fourier Transform Cosine Transform DCT or Wavelet functions may be mapped into a histogram distribution.

To save on computation one or more field or frame may be transformed to a lower resolution picture for frequency analysis or pixels may be averaged or binned.

Frequency domain or time or pixel domain analysis may include receiving the video signal and performing high pass low pass band eject and or band pass filtering for one or more dimensions. A comparator may be used for slicing at a particular level to provide a line art transformation of the video picture in one or two dimensions. A frequency analysis e.g. Fourier or Wavelet or coefficients of Fourier or Wavelet transforms may be done on the newly provided line art picture. Alternatively since line art pictures are compact in data requirements a time or pixel domain comparison between the library s or data base s information may be compared with a received video program that has been transformed to a line art picture.

The data base and or library may then include pixel or time domain or frequency domain information based on a line art version of the video program to compare against the sampled or captured video signal. A portion of one or more fields or frames may be used in the comparison.

In another embodiment one or more fields or frames may be enhanced in a particular direction to provide outlines or line art. For example a picture is made of a series of pixels in rows and columns. Pixels in one or more rows may be enhanced for edge information by a high pass filter function along the one dimensional rows of pixels. The high pass filtering function may include a Laplacian double derivative and or a Gradient single derivative function along at least one axis . As a result of performing the high pass filter function along the rows of pixels the video field or frame provides more clearly identified lines along the vertical axis e.g. up down down up or perpendicular or normal to the rows.

Similarly enhancement of the pixels in one or more columns provides identified lines along the horizontal axis e.g. side to side or left to right right to left or perpendicular or normal to the columns.

The edges or lines in the vertical and or horizontal axes allow for unique identifiers for one or more fields or frames of a video program. In some cases either vertical or horizontal edges or lines are sufficient for identification purposes and using one axis requires less e.g. half computation for analysis than analyzing for curves of lines in both axes.

It is noted that the video program s field or frame may be rotated for example at an angle in the range of 0 360 degrees relative to an X or Y axis prior or after the high pass filtering process to find identifiable lines at angles outside the vertical or horizontal axis.

The DVS SAP movie script library database includes descriptive narration e.g. in text and or the dialogs of the characters of the program material. The DVS or SAP text scripts may be divided by chapters or may be linked to a time line in accordance with the program e.g. movie video program . The stored DVS or SAP text scripts may be used for later retrieval for example for comparison with DVS SAP scripts from a received video program or movie for identification purposes.

A text or closed caption data base includes text that is converted from closed caption or the closed caption data signals which are stored and may be retrieved later. The closed caption signal may be received from a vertical blanking interval signal or from a digital television data or transport stream e.g. such as MPEG x 

Time code data which is tied or related to the program material provides another attribute to be used for identification purposes. For example if the program material has a DVS narrative or closed caption phrase word or text of X at a particular time the identity of the program material can be sorted out faster or more efficiently. Similarly if at time X the Fourier Transform or STFT of the DVS or SAP signal has a particular profile the identity of the program can be sorted out faster or more accurately.

The information from blocks and or is supplied to a combining function depicted as block which generates reference data. This reference data is supplied to a comparing function depicted as block . The comparing function also receives data from program material source by way of processing function which data may be a segment of the program material e.g. 1 second to 1 minute . Video data from source may include closed caption information which then may be compared to DVS SAP signals DVS SAP text closed caption information or signals from the reference data supplied via the closed caption database DVS SAP movie script library or database or via the DVS SAP database . Time code information from the program material source and processing function may be included and used for comparison purposes with the reference data.

Processing function may include a processor to convert a DVS SAP LFE low frequency effect signal from the program video signal or movie of program material source into frequency components spectral analysis such as DCT Discrete Cosine Transform DFT Discrete Fourier Transform Wavelets FFT Fast Fourier Transform STFT Short Time Fourier Transform FT Fourier Transform or the like. The frequency components such as frequency coefficients of the DVS SAP LFE audio channel s are then compared via comparing function to frequency components coefficients of known movies or video programs for identification. Time code also may be used to associate a time when the specific frequency components occurred for the library reference and for the received video or movie from source for identification purpose s .

In another embodiment processor may include a speech to text processor for converting DVS SAP audio signals from video or movie source to text. This converted text associated with words from the DVS or SAP channel is compared via comparing function to a library database of DVS SAP text from known movies or video programs. The library database for example may include transcribed text from listening to the DVS SAP channel s or from converting the audio signal of the DVS SAP channel s to text via a computer algorithm for known identified video programs or movies.

Processing function may then include a time domain signal to frequency domain component converter and or an audio signal to text converter for example for identification purposes.

Yet another embodiment includes a configuration wherein the processing function reads or extracts closed caption and or time code or teletext data from the video signal movie or TV program received from the program material source . A portion or all of the closed caption and or time code or teletext data is compared with the retrieved reference library data via the blocks and or .

Thus in one embodiment processing function may process or transform any combination of time code close caption teletext DVS and or SAP data or signals. For example the processing may include extracting reading converting audio to text and or performing frequency transformations e.g. STFT FT DFT FFT DCT Wavelets or Wavelet Transform etc. .

Performing transformations may be done on received program material from source including DVS SAP and or one or more channels of the audio signal e.g. AC 3 5.1 channel or LFE Low Frequency Effects such as in . A library or database containing the identified or known transformations of the audio signal then is used for comparing via comparing function to the program material from source for identifying the received unknown program material.

The comparing function may include a controller and or algorithm to search via the reference data incoming information or signals such as for example DVS SAP or closed caption signals or text information from the program material source .

The output of the comparing function after one or more segments is analyzed to provide an identified title or other data names of performers or crew associated with the received program material.

For a digital video source the DVS or SAP audio signal may be in a digitized form or in discrete time. As mentioned above this digitized DVS SAP audio signal may be converted to text via a speech to text converter e.g. via speech recognition software . Another source for identification may include sound channels of the Dolby AC 3 Surround Sound 5.1 system. For example the 5.1 channel or LFE Low Frequency Effect s channel may be analyzed via STFT or other transforms. Since the LFE channel is limited to special or sound effects in general a particular movie will tend to have a particular sound effect or special effect which provides means for identification. One example inserts any of the signals mentioned in an MPEG x or JPEG 2000 bit stream. The digital video signal may be provided from recorded media such as a CD DVD Blu ray disc hard drive tape or solid state memory. Transmitted digital video signals may be provided via a delivery network LAN Internet intranet phone line WiFi WiMax cable RF ATSC DTV and or HDTV.

The program material source for example includes a time code closed caption DVS SAP and or teletext reader for reading the received digital or analog video signal. It should be noted that closed caption and or time code may be embedded in a portion of the vertical blanking interval of a TV signal e.g. analog or in a portion of the MPEG x or JPEG 2000 data transport stream.

The output of the reader s thus includes a DVS SAP time code closed caption and or teletext signal which may be converted to text symbols for comparing against a database or library for identification purpose s . The output of source may include information related to STFT or Fourier transforms of the DVS SAP AC 3 LFE and or closed caption signal. This STFT or equivalent information is used for comparison to a database or library for identification purposes.

Histogram info nation may include pixel group distribution of luminance color and or color difference signals. Alternatively histogram information may include coefficients for cosine Fourier and or Wavelet transforms. The histogram may provide a distribution over an area of a video frame or field or over specific lines segments of for example any angle or length rows and or columns.

For example for each movie or video program stored in a database or library histogram information is provided for at least a portion of a set of frames or fields or lines segments. A received video signal then is processed to provide histogram data which is then compared to the stored histograms in the database or library to identify a movie or video program. With the data from closed caption time code or teletext combined with the histogram information identification of the movie or video program is provided which may include a faster or more accurate search.

The histogram may be sampled every N frames to reduce storage and or increase search efficiency. For example sampling for pixel distribution or coefficients of transforms in a periodic but less than 100 duty cycle allows more efficient or faster identification of the video program or movie.

Similarly in the MPEG x or compressed video format information related to motion vectors or change in a scene may be stored and compared against incoming video that is to be identified. Information in selected P frames and or I frames may be used for the histogram for identification purposes.

In some video transport streams pyramid coding is done to allow providing video programming at different resolutions. In some cases lower resolution representation of any of the video fields or frames may be utilized for identification purposes which requires less storage and or provides more efficient or faster identification.

Radon transforms may be used as a method of identifying program material. In the Radon transform lines or segments are pivoted or rotated on an origin for example 0 0 for of the plane of two dimension Fourier or Radon coefficients. By generating the Radon transform for specific discrete angles such as fractional multiples of k where k

The coefficients of the Radon transform as a function of an angle may be mapped into a histogram representation which can be used for comparison against a known database of Radon transforms for identification purposes.

The video program or movie may be provided via a video source and processing function such as for example program material source and processing function of .

Thus an embodiment includes for example an identifying system for movies or video programs comprising a library or database a processor for the unknown video program and or a comparing function to initiate the identification process. The library or database may be any combination of transformations e.g. frequency transformations or transforms of audio signals including LFE SAP DVS and or of a library of text based information or alpha numeric data symbols from any combination of teletext closed caption time code and or speech to text from a DVS SAP soundtrack. The identifying system may include a processor to receive or extract teletext time code closed caption data from the unknown movie or video program or may include a processor to convert an audio data or signal to a text data signal taken from the DVS SAP channel of the unknown movie or video program. The identifying system may include a processor for providing a frequency transformation or transforms of the SAP DVS LFE channel from the unknown movie or video program. The comparing function part of the identifying system then compares any combination of time code teletext text from DVS SAP and or any combination of frequency transformations from DVS SAP LFE between a known reference library database and the unknown movie or video program to identify the unknown movie or video program.

An output of the comparing function or circuit provides an identifier for the video signal received by the rendering function or circuit .

In another embodiment wherein the combining element or module sums the video signal with the delayed video signal the resulting output of module contains an averaging signal which can be used for identification purposes.

An exemplary identification system includes a library or data base of known or identified program material such as movies or video programs. The video program s is delayed then and combined for example in a difference mode or summing mode to provide a modified video signal. The modified video signal then may be further analyzed for pixel and or frequency information and then stored in a library for comparison to an incoming or received unknown video signal for identification. The incoming or received signal is processed or modified in substantially the same manner as previously mentioned for the known video programs in the library or data base.

In terms of analysis for pixel information luminance and or color information channel s of the modified or video signal from the combining element or module may be stored for comparison and or identification. Alternatively one or more frequency transforms may be applied to the output of the module to provide coefficients of a Fast Fourier Transform Discrete Cosine Transform Radon Transform Wavelet Transform Discrete Fourier Transform or the like. The output of module may comprise a luminance color difference chroma and or composite signal. The coefficients of the one or more transforms are stored for comparison purposes which enables subsequent identification of the received or incoming unknown video program.

Alternatively as shown in a delay element or module B may be a PH horizontal line delay wherein PH a real number is greater than zero. For example if a difference mode is provided by module and PH is greater than or equal to 1 the difference signal between two successive television horizontal lines is provided for identification purposes. Note that a summing mode from combining element or module may be used for example when summing two or more successive television horizontal lines.

In an example of a 90 degree rotation the frequency components in the up down direction or columns are provided from the input video signal e.g. that is not rotated . Depending on the rotation angle of module frequency components are evaluated over a series of lines or segments for a particular angle of the original video signal. That is frequency components via the one or more transforms can be evaluated over one or more curves within one or more video frames or fields. For example see curves C C C C C and or C in . Note that a curve may include one or more local portions of straight and or curved segments. Alternatively a spiral arc segment and or a closed boundary of a region may form a curve. Thus the frequency components that are evaluated over one or more curves within one or more portions of one or more video frames fields may be stored in a database for known or identified movies or video programs for comparison with a received unknown video program for identifying the received video program.

A filter bank with an optional histogram is coupled to a video source to provide frequency component amplitude as a function of time for identification purposes. In a filter bank B or B may substitute for rendering function or circuit A and or A of previous . A filter bank allows for a faster assessment in determining or measuring frequency components of a signal as a function of time versus using Short Time Fourier Transforms or Fourier Transforms. Thus a library of known or identified video programs and or movies provides a database of frequency components as a function of time via a filter bank. It follows that these frequency components and or a time code reference may be stored and compared to an incoming video signal that is coupled to a filter bank that provides frequency components of the received video signal. A comparison of the frequency components of the received video signal and the database of frequency components of known video material or programs enables identification of the incoming or received video program. Typically a video bandwidth is less than 1 2 MHz for low definition television or greater than 1 MHz for standard or high definition television standards. For example a video bandwidth is 4 MHz or more for standard definition television or greater than 10 MHz for high definition television. A filter bank may include one or more filters that are of low pass band pass and or high pass characteristic.

Alternatively a filter bank may analyze audio signals from one or more channels of the video source or from an audio source e.g. song CD audio track record etc. in a similar manner as described above for identification. Here the filter bank comprises one or more filter bands in an audio range e.g. within and or inclusive from 20 Hz to 20 000 Hz . For audio a filter bank may include one or more filters that are of low pass band pass and or high pass characteristic.

To analyze one or more fields or frames of a video signal for identification purposes the entire area of the field or frame may not be necessary to provide the analysis. shows examples of regions within a field or frames which provide sufficient pixel and or frequency content information. Thus one or more regions may be gated in through or alternatively one or more regions may be masked off when analyzing one or more field or frame of a video signal. As denoted in regions R R R R R and R show examples of gating through or in a complementary manner masking at least part of the picture area for pixel and or frequency analysis. An entire or whole field or frame is denoted as .

For example in pixel analysis may include average luminance or chroma color level at one or more regions per frame or field. Alternatively for one or more regions per frame or field frequency analysis may be provided such as Fourier Transform Fast Fourier Transform or the like for 1 or 2 dimensions e.g. of luminance chrominance and or color signals .

Predictive Motion Vector PMV or motion vector MV in a compressed video stream may be analyzed as a function of time for identification of a video signal. One parameter related to motion vectors is delta 2 MV PMV or the absolute value of delta motion code 1 2 r size motion residual 1. The values or difference in values e.g. present minus delayed values of delta or absolute values of delta may be stored as a function of time and used for identification of a video program.

By using thresholding or comparator techniques to pass through the enhanced edge information on video programs profiles of the location of the edges are stored for comparison against a received video program rendered in substantially the same manner. The edge information allows a greater reduction in data compared to the original field or frame of video.

The edge information may include edges in a horizontal vertical off axis and or a combination of horizontal and vertical direction s which may be used for identification purposes.

Filter may be implemented in software firmware DSP Digital Signal Processing and or in the analog domain.

Alternatively any portion or all of the voice and or audio spectrum provided via the filter may be combined with weighted sums of harmonics as illustrated by dashed line to provide an audio signal for the speech recognition processor for conversion to text.

For example suppose two signals within a wider band spectrum includes sin 1 t sin 2 t which is then coupled to a second harmonic generator or squaring function. The resulting frequencies from the output of the squaring function are 1 2 1 2 which are intermodulation product frequencies that are not desirable and the desirable harmonic frequencies 2 1 2 2.

Now suppose that each sinusoidal signal sin 1 t and sin 2 t are filtered by two band pass filters one band pass filter passing at frequency col and another band pass filter passing the signal at 2. For each output of the two band pass filters the signals are individually coupled to separate harmonic generators e.g. squaring circuit . Then a first squaring circuit or function provides a signal of frequency 2 1 and a second squaring circuit or function provides a signal of frequency 2 2. A combining circuit receiving the outputs of the individual harmonic generators then outputs the desired signal of frequencies 2 1 and 2 2. The combining circuit may include a filter to remove low frequency signals e.g. signals below the spectrum of the voice spectrum .

Alternatively any portion or all of the voice and or audio spectrum provided via filter bank may be combined with weighted sums of harmonics of two or more sub bands as illustrated by a dashed line to provide an audio signal for the speech recognition processor for conversion to text.

For example the voice frequency spectrum is typically 150 Hz to 2500 Hz. By filtering a small portion of the voice frequency spectrum such as 150 Hz to 300 Hz this small portion of the voice frequency spectrum would normally be too muffled sounding or unintelligible to allow recovery by a voice recognition system. By using the sub band technique with multiple filters and distortion generators the missing harmonics from 300 Hz to about 2500 Hz are provided. These generated missing harmonics 300 to 2500 Hz combined with the 150 Hz to 300 Hz spectrum provides intelligibility and or voice recognition by the recognition system for conversion into text.

To provide higher order harmonics the process is substantially repeated with one or more mixers multipliers and or modulators. For example to provide a third harmonic signal from the input signal the output of the second harmonic filter is coupled to a first input of a multiplier . The second input of multiplier is coupled via terminal to the input signal wherein the signal includes the fundamental frequencies. The output of the multiplier mixer then includes a third harmonic signal which is passed via a third harmonic filter . The output of filter is then coupled to a scaling function K whose output in turn is coupled to the combining function or circuit .

Similarly an nth multiplier mixer is used to provide an nth harmonic frequency of the input signal. For example the n 1 th harmonic from a series of filters and mixer multipliers is coupled to a first input of an nth multiplier mixer . The second input of the nth multiplier mixer is coupled to the input signal whereby the output of the nth multiplier mixer includes an nth harmonic of the input signal along with other distortion products. The output of the multiplier mixer is coupled to the input of an nth harmonic filter . The output of the filter is scaled via a scaling function to supply gain attenuation and or phase shift to the combining function or circuit . It follows that the output of the combining function or circuit then includes any combination of fundamental and or harmonics of the input signal e.g. as determined by scaling coefficients Ki where the index denoted by i is an element of positive integers .

For an example a zero 0 phase signal may be denoted by a cosine function and a 90 degree phase shifted signal may be denoted by a sine function or vice versa depending on whether a plus or minus 90 degrees shift is implemented .

Accordingly in a band limited signal e.g. input signal s frequency spectrum 100 Hz is coupled via an input terminal to a phase shifting function or equivalently a Hilbert Transform system . The output of phase shifting Hilbert system provides 0 degrees and 90 degrees phase versions of the input signal. One output of the system is coupled to a first input of a multiplier mixer . The other input of multiplier mixer is coupled to a generator whose frequency f determines or provides frequency translation of the input signal. It is noted that the phase of the frequency f for generator is at 0 degrees. The output of the multiplier mixer is coupled to a combining function circuit system . A 90 degrees output of the phase shifting Hilbert system is coupled to a first input of another multiplier mixer . A second input of multiplier mixer is coupled to a 90 degrees phase shifted signal of an f generator . The output of the multiplier mixer is coupled to the combining function circuit .

Referring back to the trigonometric identities above it is observed that an upward frequency translation of the input signal is provided by setting the combining function circuit as a subtraction function of the outputs of multipliers mixers and . Alternatively a downward frequency translation of the input signal is provided by setting the combining function circuit as an addition function of the output of the multipliers mixers and . The output terminal of combining function circuit provides frequency translation of the input signal s spectrum. It should be noted that the input signal s spectrum does not have frequency components to 0 Hertz or DC Direct Current . The apparatus in allows for downward frequency shift of the input signal without shifting the input signal spectrum s frequency to DC or wrapped around frequencies near DC which would cause possible distortion. For example if the input spectrum has frequencies greater than 150 Hz then the frequency f may be set to 100 Hz to shift the input spectrum down by 100 Hz resulting in a new spectrum that is greater than or equal to 50 Hz 150 Hz 100 Hz .

Another implementation of the method and apparatus of may be achieved by Weaver Modulation e.g. for single sideband generation to avoid using the Hilbert Transform system by utilizing additional multipliers mixer and filters.

The system of provides frequency translation transformation by relying on product to sum trigonometric identities. One such identity is cos cos 0.5 cos cos 

which results when two signals of frequencies u and v are multiplied where sum and difference frequencies u v and u v are produced. A typically band limited signal is coupled via an input to a first input of a multiplier mixer . A second input of multiplier mixer is coupled to a generator or equivalent function for providing a frequency fA. The output of multiplier mixer then includes the sum and difference frequencies of the input signal s spectrum and frequency fA from the generator . A filter such as a band pass filter passes the sum frequencies such as the input signal s frequencies fA to a first input of a second multiplier mixer . A second input of multiplier mixer is coupled to a generator or function with frequency fB. The output of the multiplier mixer is coupled to a second filter to provide a difference frequency spectrum such as the input signal s frequencies fA fB . Depending on the selection of fA and fB the difference frequency fA fB may translate up the input frequency spectrum if fA fB or translate down the input frequency spectrum if fA

It should be noted that any combination of frequency translation filter banks and or distortion generation for any audio signal provides a method and apparatus for processing audio signals for speech recognition purposes. Speech recognition may include speech to text conversion which subsequently may be used for identification of movies or video audio programs. Alternatively any combination of processing of an audio and or video signal via any of the following processes may be used for identification frequency translation filter banks distortion generation closed caption information DVS audio signal converted to text DVS audio signal Fourier Transform including DCT STFT or Wavelet Transform AC 3 audio signal frequency analysis time code histogram Radon Transform of video signals rendering of video signals SAP audio signal spectrum analysis and or speech to text conversion teletext and or movie scripts.

An example embodiment includes A system for improving speech recognition of a speech to text converter comprising coupling an audio signal to an input of a band pass filter wherein the band pass filter provides a band limited spectrum of the audio signal coupling an output of the band pass filter to an input of a frequency translation circuit or function wherein an output of the frequency translation circuit or function shifts the band limited spectrum of the audio up or down and further coupling the output of the frequency translation circuit or function to a speech to text converter to provide improved speech recognition of the band limited spectrum of the audio signal.

Another embodiment includes a system for improving speech recognition of a speech to text converter comprising coupling an audio signal to an input of a band pass filter system wherein the band pass filter system provides one or more band limited spectrums of the audio signal coupling an output of the band pass filter system to an input of a distortion generation system and coupling an output of the distortion generation system to an input of a frequency translation circuit or function wherein an output of the frequency translation circuit or function shifts the band limited spectrum of the audio up or down and further coupling the output of the frequency translation circuit or function to a speech to text converter to provide improved speech recognition of the band limited spectrum of the audio signal.

Yet another embodiment includes A system for improving speech recognition of a speech to text converter comprising coupling an audio signal to an input of a frequency translation circuit or function wherein an output of the frequency translation circuit or function shifts a spectrum of the audio signal up or down further coupling the output of the frequency translation circuit or system to an input of a band pass filter system wherein the band pass filter system provides one or more band limited spectrums of the audio signal coupling an output of the band pass filter system to an input of a distortion generation system and coupling an output of the distortion generation system to a speech to text converter to provide improved speech recognition of the audio signal.

A further embodiment includes A system for processing an input signal comprising coupling the input signal to an input of a filter bank comprising two or more filters wherein the output of the filter bank includes two or more outputs a first output a second output and or an nth output further comprising coupling the first output second output and or the nth output to one or more inputs of non linear transformations wherein the one or more outputs of the one or more non linear transformations provides one or more harmonics of the input signal via the first second or nth output of the filter bank further comprising scaling and or combining two or more outputs of the non linear transformations to provide a processed signal.

Any of the embodiments described in relation to the may by applied for identifying purposes such as in the processing function of for any audio track providing SAP sound track and or DVS signals which may be used in combination with other identifying techniques and or methods described previously in any .

The exemplary computer system includes a data processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or other imaging technology. The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a pointing device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In exemplary embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass an entity that is physically or logically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. While the machine readable medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and or magnetic media. As noted the software may be transmitted over a network by using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The figures provided herein are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The description herein may include terms such as up down upper lower first second etc. that are used for descriptive purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting. The elements materials geometries dimensions and sequence of operations may all be varied to suit particular applications. Parts of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. While the foregoing examples of dimensions and ranges are considered typical the various embodiments are not limited to such dimensions or ranges.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.74 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

The system of an exemplary embodiment may include software information processing hardware and various processing steps which are described herein. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in articles of manufacture as machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and system described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described herein. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations and or application programming interfaces are described. It is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

This disclosure is illustrative and not limiting. For example an embodiment need not include all blocks illustrated in any of the figures. A subset of block s within any figure may be used as an embodiment. Further modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of this disclosure and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

