---

title: Graphene memristor having modulated graphene interlayer conduction
abstract: A graphene memristor includes a first electrode, a second electrode electrically coupled to the first electrode, an active region interspersed between the first and second electrodes, a defective graphene structure that modulates a barrier height to migration of ions through the active region, fast diffusing ions that migrate under the influence an electric field to change a state of the graphene memristor, and a source that generates the electric field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08294132&OS=08294132&RS=08294132
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08294132
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---
This inventions disclosed herein have been made with U.S. Government support under Contract Number 2008 0911510 002. The U.S. Government has certain rights in these inventions.

Memristive devices or simply memristors are a class of electrical components that potentially can be used for a variety of functions including as switches in electronic circuits and as non volatile memory. Memristors include two terminal devices in which the magnetic flux between the terminals is a function of electric charge passed through the device.

Memristors may be molecular or nano scale devices. When used in electronic circuits and non volatile memory such a nano scale memristor may incorporate a single atom thick layer of graphite normally referred to as graphene. Under certain conditions the graphene layer may form a barrier to the movement of ions between the terminals. To make this memristor operate as a switch or as non volatile memory some mechanism may allow the transport of ions through the graphene layer.

In general terms a memristor is a circuit element that maintains a functional relationship called memristance between time integrals of current and voltage. A specific implementation of memristor technology involves a switching memristor that employs a thin film of titanium dioxide and has a regime of operation with an approximately linear charge resistance relationship. Such a switching device has application in nano electronic memories devices that are so small that inter atomic interactions and quantum mechanical properties apply. The same switching devices also may find application in computer logic and neuromorphinic computer architectures e.g. very large scale integration VLSI systems containing electronic analog circuits that mimic neuro biological architectures present in the nervous system and analog digital or mixed mode analog digital VLSI systems that implement models of neural systems for perception motor control or sensory processing as well as software algorithms.

A memristor may be a two terminal device in which magnetic flux between the terminals is a function of the amount of electric charge q that has passed through the device. Alternately a memristor may be embodied as a three terminal device. A memristor may be characterized by its memristance function which describes the charge dependent rate of change of flux with charge 

Thus memristance may be considered charge dependent resistance. If the memristance function is a constant then by Ohm s law R t V t I t . If the memristance function is not constant or nearly so however the equations are not equivalent because q t and M q t will vary with time.

The memristance function thus defines a linear relationship between current and voltage as long as charge does not vary. Of course nonzero current implies time varying charge. Alternating current however may show the linear dependence in circuit operation by inducing a measurable voltage without net charge movement as long as the maximum change in q does not cause much change in M.

Furthermore the memristor is static if no current is applied. If I t 0 then V t 0 and M t is constant. This is the essence of the memory effect of a memristor. The memristor s power consumption characteristic follows that IR of a resistor. Thus As long as M q t varies little such as under alternating current conditions the memristor will appear as a resistor. If M q t increases rapidly however current and power consumption will quickly stop.

For some memristors applied current or voltage will cause a large change in resistance. Such memristors may be characterized as switches considering the time and energy needed to achieve a desired change in resistance. For a memristor to switch from the resistance ON state R to the resistance OFF state R in time Tto T the charge must change by Q Q Q. Assuming that the applied voltage remains constant the energy required for switching is the integral of dt M q t over the time interval Tto T.

This switching power characteristic differs fundamentally from that of a metal oxide semiconductor transistor which is a capacitor based device. Unlike the transistor the final state of the memristor in terms of charge does not depend on bias voltage.

Memristance is displayed when enough charge has passed through the memristor that the ions can no longer move and the memristor enters hysteresis. Mathematically this condition is defined by keeping q at an upper bound and M fixed. The memristor then acts as a resistor until current is reversed.

A memristor may be implemented as a nano scale device based on the behavior of nano scale thin films. In an embodiment a solid state memristor is combined into devices called crossbar latches which could replace transistors in computers taking up a much smaller area because the memristor devices that make up a crossbar latch potentially can be made far smaller than any transistor. Thus crossbar latches allow much the same functionality as transistors except on a molecular scale. The crossbar latch consists of a signal line crossed by two control lines. Depending on the voltages sent down the various lines crossbar latches can simulate the action of the three major logic gates AND OR and NOT.

Nano scale memristors also can be fashioned into non volatile solid state memory which would allow greater data density than hard drives but with access times potentially similar to DRAM thereby being capable of replacing both components.

Although illustrates a graphene layer i.e. a single carbon atom thick structure in some embodiments of a nano scale memristor a structure having more than one graphene layer may be used. A structure having more than one graphene layers may be referred to as graphite where the layers are separated by a gap. As will be described later the gap is the normal 0.335 nm gap that exists between layers in graphite. Alternately a structure having more than one graphene layer may include two or more graphene layers separated by another material such as a dielectric material. As used hereinafter a graphene structure refers to one or more graphene layers separated by a gap or by another material while a graphene layer has its ordinary meaning of a single carbon atom layer.

Because of its filtering effect a perfect graphene layer presents a very high barrier to the mobility of ions. To overcome this barrier an electronic device comprising a graphene layer would ordinarily require a large power application to entice ion drift of even small fast diffusing ions such as H across the graphene layer. As used herein small fast diffusing ions or simply fast diffusing ions being very small the ions can diffuse very fast include in addition to H Li radius 0.068 nm Na radius 0.095 nm and K radius 0.133 nm for example. In the discussion that follows the use of fast diffusing ions will refer to K although any of the aforementioned fast diffusing ions may be used. When a graphene layer has certain defects the ion mobility barrier height can be reduced significantly and the consequent power requirements correspondingly reduced. In fact the barrier energy for migration of these ions through the graphene layer can be tuned from over 10 eV to sub 1 eV by engineering defects in the graphene layer. Furthermore the size or shape of these engineered defects affects the barrier energy of the memristor. Thus a defective graphene layer can serve as an ideal filter gating the drift of ions inside the memristors in which they are incorporated. Under a relatively high electric field for switching the defective graphene layer with certain barrier height allows the K ions to pass through and change the resistance of the junction. Under lower energy for reading the barrier height of graphene stops the drift and diffusion of the K ions keeping the K ions on one side of the graphene layer and remembering the resistance state of the junction.

Defects can be naturally occurring or may be engineered into the graphene structure. In the realm of semi conductors in an embodiment any defects in the graphene structure would be engineered by for example displacing one or more carbon atoms and or adding an impurity to the graphene layer.

The above mentioned engineered defects produce nanopores through which the K ions can migrate in the presence of an electric field. The graphene layer may have nanopores engineered into it by ion etching followed by local oxidation of the nanopore edges. illustrate nanopores in a graphene layer. In a graphene layer is shown with nanopore which is formed by ion etching and local oxidation using negatively charged nitrogen and fluorine. The thus formed nanopore favors passage of cations. In a graphene layer includes nanopore which is formed by ion etching followed by local oxidation using positively charged hydrogen ions. Nanopore favors passage of anions.

Because of the small size of the memristor the amount of power required to cause switching between an ON state and an OFF state is on the order of one picojoule i.e. Q Q Q 1 picojoule. Thus when a sufficiently strong electric field is created by application of a switching voltage V to the memristor the K ions diffuse through the defective graphene layer . For example if the bottom electrode is grounded and a negative voltage is applied to the top electrode as shown in K ions will diffuse from the Al active region across the defective graphene layer and the memristor will be in the OFF state. Because of its memory capacity the memristor will remain in the OFF state for a substantial time e.g. years or until a sufficiently high positive voltage is applied to the top electrode . Such a positive voltage will push the K ions to the active region and the memristor will be in and remain in an ON state.

The gap creates a barrier to the passage of electrons across the memristor . To overcome this barrier K ions are added to the memristor . The K ions can then migrate through the defective graphene layer under conditions of a sufficient switching voltage V to place the memristor in an ON state.

Thus the two terminal memristors of differ primarily in the choice of materials interspersed between the top and bottom electrodes and . These materials include a metal an inorganic insulator an organic insulator and nothing i.e. a gap .

In an alternate embodiment of the nano scale memristor of the graphene structure is replaced by a structure similar to the graphene structure of . In this alternative embodiment application of a potential by way of the gate electrode drives the K ions from the gap into the active region .

Ideally the memristors shown in would demonstrate certain enhanced switching metrics. These metrics include switching speed which refers to the time required to toggle between the ON and OFF states endurance which refers to the number of switching events a memristor can undergo before failure and retention time which refers to the time period during which the memristor maintains its current state ON or OFF in the absence of applied power. Such retention times may be on the order of years.

The memristors also scale well physically. Because of the one carbon atom thick graphene layer the memristors can be scaled down to a few angstroms thick and a few square nanometers in area.

The graphene structure of the memristor device of is illustrated in more detail in . Graphene structure is a bi layer structure that includes top graphene layer and bottom graphene layer which together define gap . The top graphene layer is a defective graphene layer containing one or more engineered defects and the bottom graphene layer is a defect free graphene layer. The gap is held by the pi bond of carbon atoms which is about 0.335 nm i.e. the layer distance of graphite. When the gap is empty a high resistance exists in the gap when the gap is filled will K ions a low resistance exists.

By using this bi layer graphene structure the tunneling distance through the graphene layers is known. When necessary or desired to increase the OFF state resistance of the graphene structure the thickness of the dielectric layer can be increased. In an embodiment the addition of the dielectric material increases the tunneling distance to about 5 nm.

In either or B the defective graphene layer may include one or more engineered defects that are intended to enhance the mobility of K ions. Such defects may be formed by removing one or more carbon atoms or by introducing an impurity atom into graphene layer see . The resulting defects or nanopores allow ions to migrate more easily under the effect of an applied potential by way of gate electrode or voltage source .

The graphene structures and provide for a dimensionally scalable memristor that may be only a few Angstroms to a few nanometers thick and a few square nanometers in cross section. The memristor is formed as a low power device by engineering the selectivity and barrier height of the defects such as nanopores to control the power to be very low to the extent of moving only a single or a few ions. The memristor has good switching performance meaning good switching speed endurance and retention time.

In by selectively forming engineered defects in the defective graphene layer and additionally by using dielectric layer interspersed between the top and bottom graphene layers the performance metrics of switching speed endurance and retention time can be altered to suit the designer s desires. This modulation of the graphene interlayer conduction allows production of a graphene memristor having a number of notable advancements over modern day transistors and makes the thus formed graphene memristor suitable for a wide range of applications including as a replacement for computer memory and as a switching element in computer architecture. For example by careful selection and formation of engineered defects and use of a specific dielectric material a graphene memristor may be formed that will remember its state i.e. ON or OFF for years without the application of power to the graphene memristor. For the nano scale graphene memristor embodiments shown in a similar modulation of the interlayer conduction can be achieved by selectively forming engineered defects in the defective graphene layer .

