---

title: Method, device, and system for completing on-line financial transactions
abstract: A method for conducting a secure transaction over a network includes the steps of receiving a price and a transaction identifier from a merchant, the transaction identifier identifying a purchase selection made by a user, receiving a user identifier from a user, receiving a financial institution selection from the user, initiating a communication session with the selected financial institution, receiving a financial-institution user-identifier from the user, communicating the financial-institution user-identifier to the selected financial institution, communicating to the selected financial institution a request to transfer funds, receiving the funds from the selected financial institution, and sending the funds to the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271385&OS=08271385&RS=08271385
owner: Mazooma Technical Services, Inc.
number: 08271385
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100517
---
This application is a divisional application claiming priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 024 581 filed Feb. 1 2008 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to on line economic transactions and in particular to a method device and system that facilitates electronic fund transfers initiated at a merchant site from a consumer s financial institution to the merchant.

Purchases of goods and services over the internet have transformed from what was once a novel way of conducting a business transaction to a now well known mainstream method of acquiring those goods and services. These on line transactions include making a selection from an offering at a merchant s website entering payment information and concluding the transaction by authorizing the merchant to receive funds. Presently there are several methods by which a consumer can electronically pay for the purchases made on the Internet which are namely credit cards debit cards direct debit and electronic funds transfers. Each of these methods however has its own advantages and disadvantages.

When making an on line purchase with a credit card the consumer provides the merchant with credit card information sufficient to process the transaction. The information can include the credit card number a security code referred to as CVV2 the card holder s address the card s expiration date and more. The amount of the purchase is then charged to the associated credit card account. However credit cards are susceptible to fraud especially when used over the Internet because the physical card is never presented to the merchant allowing anyone with the credit card information to initiate a transaction. In addition a verification to check whether the credit card owner has in fact authorized the purchase is typically not performed during on line purchases. This lack of security makes many purchasers reluctant to use a credit card over the Internet. In addition credit cards have a relatively high cost to the merchant that includes a processing fee of 1.4 and up. Credit cards also present a potentially high cost to the consumer as credit card issuer s charge interest on any balance that is not paid by the end of a billing cycle.

Debit cards can be used to make purchases on line. Debit cards are really signature based check cards that are associated with a bank account. They are analogous to a check with insufficient funds NSF and overdraft protection. A consumer can initiate the on line purchase by supplying his or her account number and generally one other piece of information such as a three or four digit number stamped on the physical card and the amount of the purchase is debited directly from the consumer s account. One major disadvantage of debit cards from a consumer s point of view is the inability to immediately reverse or repudiate the transaction. Once the funds are withdrawn from the consumer s account he or she will be forced to do without those funds during any dispute procedures. Interception of the account number and other piece of information such as the three or four digit number stamped on the physical card allows a third party direct access to a consumer s funds. This possibility makes many consumers reluctant to use debit cards over the internet. In addition debit cards have a relatively high cost to the merchant that includes a processing fee of 1.4 and up. The debit or check cards have the same disadvantages as credit card since they operate much the same same networks and same authentication. Therefore security is a major drawback. Also fees for overdrafts are high.

Fund transfer methods of payment for on line purchases are also known. Fund transfer methods include payment employing an intermediate account whereby a consumer transfers funds from his personal financial institution account into the intermediate account and then uses the funds in the intermediate account in making an on line purchase. These systems include electronic wallets or ewallets internet pay anyone IPA accounts and virtual or physical pre paid credit cards. When paying for an on line purchase from an intermediate account the consumer may be required to provide the merchant with information identifying his intermediate account such as a user identifier User ID and a password.

If the consumer does not have sufficient funds in the intermediate account the on line transaction will be denied. Funding an intermediate account requires the consumer to plan ahead it may take one to five business days before a consumer who has transferred funds into his intermediate account to access those funds. During this time the funds are debited from the consumer s personal financial institution account and the consumer disadvantageously does not have access to these funds. On the other side the intermediate account provider will place a hold on deposited funds until they are cleared. A consumer who does not have enough funds in his intermediate account to pay for his on line purchase will have to wait for the funds to clear before he can complete his purchase.

Consumer pre authorized direct debit methods are known and typically used for on line payment of bills such as utility bills and for recurring payments. However a merchant needs prior standing authority from the consumer. Without this explicit authority no third parties such as merchants are able to access funds from the customer. Such an arrangement is tedious and inconvenient to set up. In any event customers are extremely reluctant to give authority to a third party to access their funds and there are concerns about fraud and difficulty in canceling such authority.

Customer initiated electronic checks echecks are known and can be used for on line purchases. Typically the customer provides his routing and account number and the merchant or processor debits funds from the consumer s account through the check clearing network. The problems with this method include the lack of any real time verification of account ownership authorization or sufficient funds and a lack of a real time settlement system. In addition there is no built in identity verification or notification of transaction success.

The present invention provides a method for conducting a secure transaction over a network where the method includes receiving a price and a transaction identifier from a merchant the transaction identifier identifying a purchase selection made by a user receiving a user identifier from a user receiving a financial institution selection from the user initiating a communication session with the selected financial institution receiving a financial institution user identifier from the user communicating the financial institution user identifier to the selected financial institution communicating to the selected financial institution a request to transfer funds receiving the funds from the selected financial institution and sending the funds to the merchant.

In accordance with a further feature of the present invention initiating a communication session step is performed by an agent that automatically performs substantially all steps for electronic communication with a financial institution to gain access to an account.

In accordance with yet another feature of the present invention the funds from the selected financial institution are received into an intermediate account.

In accordance with yet another feature the present invention includes aggregating at least two transactions into a net settlement amount owed to the merchant and pushing the net settlement amount from the intermediate account to the merchant.

In accordance with another feature the present invention includes a device for conducting a secure transaction over a network where the device includes an input operable to receive a price and a transaction identifier from a merchant the transaction identifier identifying a purchase selection made by a user receive a user identifier from a user receive a financial institution selection from the user and receive a financial institution user identifier from the user. The device further includes a processor communicatively coupled to the input and operable to initiate and maintain a communication session with the selected financial institution. The device also includes an output operable to communicate the financial institution user identifier to the selected financial institution communicate to the selected financial institution a request to transfer funds and communicate to the selected financial institution an identifier of an intermediate account for receiving the funds wherein the intermediate account is a settlement account maintained by an entity separate from the financial institution and the merchant.

The present invention according to another embodiment includes a method for conducting a secure transaction over a network where the method includes receiving a purchase selection at a merchant site communicating a transaction identifier and a purchase price from the merchant site to a debit agent receiving at the debit agent a user identifier from a user receiving at the debit agent a financial institution selection from the user initiating with the debit agent a communication session with the selected financial institution receiving at the debit agent a financial institution user identifier from the user communicating the financial institution user identifier from the debit agent to the selected financial institution communicating from the debit agent to the selected financial institution a request to withdraw funds receiving into an intermediate account the funds from the selected financial institution and transferring with the debit agent the funds from the intermediate account to the merchant.

In accordance with an additional feature transferring the funds to the merchant includes the steps of aggregating at least two transactions into a net settlement amount owed to the merchant and pushing the net settlement amount from the intermediate account to the merchant.

Other features that are considered as characteristic for the invention are set forth in the appended claims.

Although the invention is illustrated and described herein as embodied in a method device and system for completing on line financial transactions it is nevertheless not intended to be limited to the details shown because various modifications and structural changes may be made therein without departing from the spirit of the invention and within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims.

The construction and method of operation of the invention however together with additional objects and advantages thereof will be best understood from the following description of specific embodiments when read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures in which like reference numerals are carried forward.

Described now is an exemplary device system and method for conducting secure direct debit economic transactions over a network. Embodiments of the present invention allow a consumer completing a transaction on a merchant site to be seamlessly directed to an inventive server device that intelligently and securely facilitates a funds transfer from the consumer s financial institution to the merchant. The invention according to particular embodiments is advantageous in the respect that the consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected.

Further advantages are realized by the closed loop transaction structure of the present invention where the merchant receives real time notification of the success or failure of the transaction. Also there is no need for the consumer to fund an intermediary account or to take on any debt during the transaction. Furthermore the consumer does not need to have a pre established account with ODS agent to complete the transaction the account can be created within the transaction process. The consumer doesn t need to provide credit card or other sensitive financial information to the merchant. The consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected. The system provides to merchants a real time or quasi real time financial institution authenticated transaction ensuring that the customer has access to the bank account being used.

With reference now to the figures depicts a representation of a network of data processing systems in which the present invention may be implemented. The network includes connections which are the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within the network . The connections may be wired or wireless connections. A few exemplary wired connections are cable phone line and fiber optic. Exemplary wireless connections include radio frequency RF and infrared radiation IR transmission. Many other wired and wireless connections are known in the art and can be used with the present invention.

In the depicted example a merchant server is connected to the network along with a financial institution server and an On line Debit System ODS server running an ODS agent . In addition a consumer is also connected to or has at least temporary access to the network . The consumer may be for example a personal computer or network computer or any other device that has electronic communication capabilities and is able to communicate with or over the network .

Network may include additional servers consumers and other devices and entities not shown. In the depicted example consumer communicates with the merchant server and as will be explained in detail below merchant server provides data such as listings of goods or services offered by the merchant to the consumer . The consumer is also able to communicate over the network with additional servers consumers and other devices and entities. Any of the depicted network entities in addition to communication with each other over the network are in some embodiments also able to communication in a peer to peer communication using wired or wireless links.

The merchant server and financial institution server represent a merchant and a financial institution respectively that operates or communicates through the merchant server and financial institution server . Therefore throughout the remainder of the specification the merchant server and financial institution server will be referred to generally as the merchant and financial institution .

In the depicted example network can include the Internet which represents a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as server or or implemented as a personal computer such as consumer computer in is depicted in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . I O bus bridge is connected to system bus and provides an interface to I O bus . Memory controller cache and I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted. The processor or in conjunction with memory controller controls what data is stored in memory . The processor and or and memory controller can serve as a data counter for counting the rate of data flow to the memory or from the memory and can also count the total volume of data accessed to or from the memory . The processor or can also work in conjunction with any other memory device or storage location.

Peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to I O bus provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of moderns may be connected to PCI bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers in may be provided through modem and network adapter connected to PCI local bus through add in boards.

Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A graphics adapter and hard disk may also be connected to I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

The ODS agent is explained in detail below and can be embodied in a computer program. Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in memory such as main memory removable storage drive removable media hard disk and signals. Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor and or to perform the features of the ODS agent .

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as main memory removable storage drive removable media hard disk and signals. These computer program products are means for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable medium allows the computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium for example may include non volatile memory such as Floppy ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. It is useful for example for transporting information such as data and computer instructions between computer systems. Furthermore the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

The above described hardware is useful for implementing the present invention which accomplishes secure on line transactions between a consumer and a merchant through utilization of an ODS server and an ODS agent . An on line transaction is defined herein as any transaction that occurs at least partially over any electronic communication network.

The flow starts at step and moves directly to step where a consumer uses a consumer computer to access a merchant s web page through a network such as the internet . It is noted that a consumer is not shown in however for the purposes of the instant discussion a consumer and a consumer computer are indistinguishable. Web pages are well known in the art and are a resource of information that is suitable for access over the internet and can be accessed through a web browser running on a computing system such as consumer computer . Web pages may consist of files of static text stored within a server s file system static web pages or the web server may construct the X HTML for each web page when it is requested by a browser dynamic web pages . Client side scripting can make web pages more responsive to user input once in the client browser. Web pages are requested and served from web servers using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . This information is usually in HTML or XHTML format and may provide navigation to other web pages via hypertext links within the page.

In step the consumer uses the consumer computer to indicate to the merchant server a purchase selection. The selection can include a product commodity a service or other that is offered by the particular merchant owning operating or otherwise associated with the merchant server . As an example a consumer shopping for sports equipment might navigate to a webpage on the merchant server hosted by a sports equipment company. It is noted that the merchant itself does not necessarily own host or maintain the merchant server . In many cases a merchant may utilize a web hosting service from a third party using the third party s equipment. Once the sports equipment web page is viewable on the consumer computer the consumer selects by mouse click or otherwise the piece of equipment that he or she wishes to purchase.

In step the merchant server provides the consumer with a choice of payment options supported by the merchant. In accordance with the present invention one of these options is an on line debit process using the ODS server and ODS agent . If the on line debit process is selected by the consumer as the preferred payment method the process flow moves to step where the consumer is redirected to the ODS server to complete the transaction. The ODS server is a physical hardware device and the ODS agent can be hardware and or a computer program that is responsible for accepting HTTP requests from merchants and serving them HTTP responses along with optional data contents which usually are web pages such as HTML documents and linked objects images etc. . In the redirection the merchant s on line application sends payment details such as order number amount and others to the ODS server and ODS agent .

The ODS agent is a programming module that provides other network components with programming interfaces to on line banking authentication and fund transfer services through a specific financial institution. The ODS agent handles HTTP communications and HTML contents intelligently to automate intermediate interactive steps required to effect an on line fund transfer. It encapsulates such complexity from other ODS components by providing well defined programming interfaces. By implementing and utilizing ODS agents an ODS system can thus present a universal and clean interface for consumers to transact on line debits efficiently and securely through heterogeneous on line banking services. In other words once a user provides his financial institution identification information the ODS agent conducts a user free i.e. user s further input is not needed communication session with the financial institution .

To manage the complexity for both implementation and maintenance an agent is constructed in such a way that it can automatically adapt to non structural changes of on line banking services while monitoring and reporting functional changes of the services so that modifications can be applied easily and accurately.

Authentication service is an integral part of on line banking services. To comply with regulatory rules and assure the integrity of the entire system on line banking utilizes leading edge technologies for user authentication to address fraud and repudiation concerns. In practice the implementation of such service varies from bank to bank. Most banks nowadays require multi factor authentication when an unusual usage pattern is detected for example when a user logs in from a new device for the first time . Multi factor authentication may on top of usual authentication credentials such as log in and password involve random Q and A question and answer tests from a set of questions that are preset by a consumer for on line banking. Most banks also avoid unnecessary multi factor authentication by maintaining a device token on the consumer s computer device after a successful multi factor authentication.

The presently inventive ODS agent according to an embodiment implements on line banking authentication. It may cache device tokens set by on line banking to pass multi factor authentication when applicable. The caching mechanism may be implemented by keeping track of the token for a specific on line banking log in and storing it in a database for subsequent usage.

Fund transfer services are part of on line banking services for consumers to pay service providers utilities etc or other account holders accounts in another financial institution friends relatives etc conveniently and efficiently. Banks may provide one or more ways to facilitate the payments and each of them involves quite different steps or set up. Banks may add more methods with advancement in payment technology for specific bank or the banking industry as a whole.

The ODS agent is able to implement the most efficient fund transfer service available from a specific bank. In particular it is able to verify the availability of sufficient funds for a particular payment to avoid inconvenience and cost arising from overdraft or insufficient funds NSF . Also the agent is able to automatically determine and select a proper bank account for the payment when multiple accounts are present for on line banking. It encapsulates the details from other ODS components so that the payment method may be replaced by a more efficient one in the future while keeping the interface to consumers user experience intact.

Session management is an important part of on line banking services. On line banking services utilize session control to manage states of a multiple step operation. They also apply session control to protect services or resources from unauthorized usage. The techniques may involve cookie management or URL rewriting.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the ODS agent implements session management required by on line banking services to facilitate multi step fund transfers. It also maintains the session after successful authentication and instructs on line banking server to close the session once a transfer is completed.

Alternatively the consumer s personal information can be provided to the ODS server by the merchant server . In one embodiment as a security measure the ODS agent asks for the same information and compares it to that submitted by the merchant server . If a difference in the two sets of information is detected the transaction may be declined.

Once the consumer has identified himself A page such as page shown in is presented to the consumer. Page features a selection of financial institutions . The financial institutions can be banks or other entities where the consumer has established an account. The financial institutions may be a place that the consumer has stored money or can be an entity that extends credit to the consumer.

In step the consumer selects one of the financial institutions if more than one is offered from the list of available financial institutions and indicates his selection by clicking on the next or other similar button . The ODS agent in step determines whether the selected financial institution is supported by the ODS agent and any associated system in which the ODS agent is employed. If the financial institution is not supported the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the consumer indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . An indication of the failed transaction is also sent to the merchant in step and the process ends at step . Alternatively if the financial institution is supported the flow moves from step to step .

In step the ODS agent determines the information required by the selected financial institution for gaining access to the consumer s account at that institution and then presents a financial institution log in information page such as page to the consumer. The page requests the necessary authentication credentials from the consumer. In one embodiment the page requests in a first field the consumer s identifying information and in a second field a password. After hitting a next or other similar button the information contained in the fields and is submitted to the specified financial institution in step .

In step the ODS agent determines whether or not the financial institution requires multi factor authentication. Multi factor authentication is a relatively new procedure for ensuring the person accessing the account has permission to do so. One example of multi factor authentication is where a user selects a particular graphic at some point when setting up the account. During the log in the consumer is given a choice of graphics and only upon making the correct selection of graphics is he granted access to the account. In other systems the consumer is given one or more challenge questions to answer.

If the answer to step is yes the process moves to step where the ODS agent presents the multi factor authentication to the consumer. The consumer presents the answer and in step the ODS agent submits the consumer s answers to the financial institution .

In step the ODS agent interprets the response from the financial institution and determines whether the authentication credentials are valid and accepted by the financial institution. If the credentials are not accepted by the financial institution the customer returns to Step to correct the authentication credentials. If customer is unable to enter correct authentication credentials the transaction will not proceed. If the authentication credentials are accepted by the financial institution the process proceeds to Step .

In step the ODS agent acts on behalf of the consumer and maintains a session with the financial institution in order to interact and respond to actions and messages from the financial institution . In other words the ODS agent implements and maintains programmatically all steps required to interact with a bank s on line financial services to facilitate a funds transfer. Specifically the ODS agent performs all the actions and functions that would be otherwise undertaken by the consumer. The process involves significant two way communication between the ODS agent and the financial institution . Advantageously this process is invisible to the consumer. The consumer only provides their authentication credentials to the ODS agent and all other actions are handled by the agent .

This is significantly different from a proxy server type of interaction between a consumer and a bank site whereby the server is merely a conduit that passes information to and from the consumer but does not act on behalf of the consumer or interpret the messages and screen code on the bank site.

Advantageously the on line financial institution does not recognize the difference between interacting with a consumer directly and interacting with the ODS agent . This is not simply a matter of pre populating fields or amalgamating steps for the consumer it is an active agent that is undertaking steps completely independent of any interaction from the consumer. For example the ODS agent in step performs functions such as entering and submitting information reacting to messages or pages loading on the bank site and opening and closing the authenticated session with the bank server. The agent acts independently based on a pre determined set of steps and interactions necessary to complete a bill pay or other payment on behalf of the consumer. The complexity of accomplishing this interaction is significant given the fact that each bank site may have different authentication procedures information requirements session maintenance systems protocols and data entry sequences. The ODS agent also interprets and decodes unique pages from each bank site to determine the result and appropriate response.

One advantage of the ODS agent is that it does not require a system level integration with the financial institution server. System level integration can be described as entailing communication between two independent systems based on an agreed upon set of communication parameters and protocols. In a system level integration both systems conform to a common communication protocol which defines how the systems exchange data and authenticate each other. It requires participation and cooperation from both sides and also the complete and formal consent of both parties. The parameters and protocol are generally defined in a technical document called an Application Programming Interface or API. The ODS agent of the present invention is advantageous in that it does not require this integration with the financial institution. In fact unlike currently available systems the present invention requires no pre transaction communication with a financial institution. The ODS agent works as an extension of the consumer and relieves the consumer from all or virtually all post identification transaction steps. As a result the ODS agent is able to communicate with non integrated no previous relationship or correspondence is necessary financial institutions.

In step the ODS agent determines whether sufficient funds are in the consumer s account. It does this by comparing the account balance at the financial institution to the requested fund withdraw amount. If sufficient funds to cover the transaction amount are not in the account the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the consumer indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . An indication of the failed transaction is also sent to the merchant in step and the process ends at step . Alternatively if sufficient funds to cover the transaction amount are in the account the ODS agent will present an approval page to the consumer in step such as page for example. The consumer can then in step approve the transaction. In one embodiment the consumer s approval is indicated by the selection of a button .

If the consumer does not approve the transaction the flow moves to step where an error page is presented indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . An indication of the failed transaction is also sent to the merchant in step and the process ends at step .

If in step the consumer approves the transaction the flow moves to step where the ODS agent will interact with the financial institution and determine the most efficient funds transfer method available from the financial institution . In step the ODS agent initiates the funds transfer through the funds transfer method determined in step . Before continuing however in step the ODS agent determines whether or not the payee has previously been registered with the funds transfer channel. If not the flow moves to step where the payee is registered.

If the answer to step is yes or after the payee is registered in step the flow moves to step where the correct payor bank account is determined. This step is used where the payor has multiple accounts to select from such as checking savings money market and others. Once the account is selected the flow moves to step where the payment amount is provided to the financial institution . In step the fund transfer is completed.

In step the ODS agent will interpret the financial institution s responses to determine the successful processing of the transaction. If the payment is not accepted by the financial institution the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the consumer indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed. An indication of the failed transaction is also sent to the merchant in step and the process ends at step . If the payment is accepted by the financial institution a summary page such as that shown in is presented to the consumer in Step . The summary page details the transaction and provides the consumer with a record of the transaction. This step is of course optional. The summary page can also be emailed to the consumer using an email address that the consumer provided during the log in process. In step the customer is presented with payment receipt page. Then in step notification of the successful transaction is sent to the merchant and the process ends at step .

In one embodiment of the present invention the payment from the financial institution to the merchant is through a settlement network shown in . A settlement network is a system that processes and pays electronic debits and credits between two or more entities. Advantageously the present invention is Settlement Network Independent and is not reliant on any specific settlement network. Instead the system is designed to leverage any one of a number of settlement networks such as an Automated Clearing House ACH FedWire account to account transfers and others. Fedwire is a Real Time Gross Settlement Funds Transfer system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks that enables financial institutions to electronically transfer funds between its more than 8 900 participants. In conjunction with the privately held Clearing House Interbank Payments System CHIPS Fedwire is the primary United States network for large value or time critical domestic and international payments and is designed to be highly resilient and redundant. The average daily value of transfers over the Fedwire Funds Service is approximately 2.3 trillion dollars and the daily average number of payments is about 532 000. FedWire is advantageous as it provides faster settlement than ACH overnight vs. 3 day and is a guaranteed payment.

As stated above in step the ODS agent initiates the most efficient funds transfer on behalf of the consumer. It should be noted that the term funds transfer as used herein is not an actual movement of currency but can be an electronic credit or debit instruction transmitted over any communication channel. In certain embodiments of the present invention the funds will settle through the settlement network to an intermediate account managed by the ODS agent or directly to the merchant bank account or any other account as specified by the system. Any other funds settlement method is also within the scope of the invention. It is envisioned that some settlement networks or systems that can be utilized to carry out the present invention are not entirely electronic and may not be a single entity. Instead these alternate settlement networks can involve a plurality of networks or systems and entities. In one embodiment of the present invention the settlement through the funds settlement network works on a net settlement basis meaning that each financial institution aggregates its payments and refunds to arrive at a net amount.

In one embodiment of the present invention in step the ODS agent may send settlement notification to merchant which may include fund transfers that have been voided reversed returned or settled.

In one embodiment of the present invention whereby funds are settled to the ODS agent s designated intermediary bank account s in step the funds are pushed i.e. caused to transfer to the merchant s account for example through use of FedWire ACH or other method which will withdraw money from the ODS agent s designated intermediary bank account s . The funds may include net settled fund transfers less fees reserves returns reversals and other deductions. The intermediary bank account is independent and can be any account at any bank. In this step the ODS agent pushes the funds in the ODS s intermediate account to the merchant or any account or entity that the merchant designates. The process ends at step .

Importantly the presently inventive ODS agent does not maintain any funds balance on behalf of the consumer. Many on line systems that refer to themselves as real time debit systems are actually simply debiting funds that have already been deposited and cleared into a virtual wallet held by that service. Conversely the present invention is a real time or quasi real time debit system where upon selection of the approval button of the screen shown in or other similar selection measures the ODS agent in step initiates the most efficient funds transfer method on behalf of the customer directly from the consumer s bank account. In other words the payment is from the financial institution and in the amount of the purchase. The consumer is not required to fund an account other than the target bank account held at the financial institution prior to the transaction.

The ODS server also includes a message center which is responsible for transmitting messages to merchants upon important events. In particular the message center can transmit payment results when a payment is completed by a consumer at the ODS server and settlement records when a payment reversal settlement is received from a financial institution.

The ODS server further includes a reporting center that provides real time or quasi real time reports through the internet to merchants on the payment settlement and distribution of transactions. The reporting system also supplies a service that allows the merchant to access key reports programmatically for example through an API without human intervention.

The present invention as has just been described is advantageous in that it is an intelligent agent rather than a simple proxy or conduit. This means that the ODS agent does not require user intervention for each step in the interaction with the financial institution . The intelligent agent automatically executes most of the steps required to complete the funds transfer process. As an agent the present invention does not require the bank site financial institution to integrate with the ODS agent . In other words there is no need for a pre transaction relationship to be established between the financial institution and the ODS agent . The system is also bank independent there is no system level or dependent integration with any bank or any specific financial system. In other words the present invention can work with any on line banking site. Because the system is not dependent on any system level integration or communication scheme or protocol i.e. no direct system level integration the ODS agent can take advantage of any current or future on line banking functionality. The invention is clearing network independent providing the ability and flexibility to leverage whatever clearing network is available or most efficient. The invention is also advantageous because the transaction is closed loop meaning that the merchant receives real time notification of the success or failure of the transaction. Also there is no need for the consumer to fund an intermediary account as is required in the prior art. Additionally the consumer does not take on any debt during the transaction. Advantageously the consumer doesn t need to provide credit card or other sensitive financial information to the merchant the consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected. The system provides to merchants a real time or quasi real time financial institution authenticated transaction ensuring that the customer has access to the bank account being used.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments. Furthermore it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

