---

title: Method and system for creating an image using the quantum properties of sound or quantum particles
abstract: A preferred embodiment comprises a method and system for generating an image of a subject or area comprising a processor; at least one incoherent light source which illuminates the subject or area; a first receiver for receiving light reflected from the subject or area operatively connected to the processor; a second receiver for receiving light from at least one incoherent light source operatively connected to the processor; the first receiver collecting the amount of light reflected from the subject and transmit a value at specific intervals of time; the second receiver comprising a second detector which detects and transmits spatial information regarding the incoherent light source independent of any data concerning the subject at specific intervals of time; wherein the processor correlates the value transmitted by the first receiver with the spatial information derived from the second receiver at correlating intervals of time to create an image of the subject or area. Alternatively, sound or quantum particles may replace the incoherent light source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08053715&OS=08053715&RS=08053715
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08053715
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100716
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 330 401 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CREATING AN IMAGE USING QUANTUM PROPERTIES OF LIGHT BASED UPON SPATIAL INFORMATION FROM A SECOND LIGHT BEAM WHICH DOES NOT ILLUMINATE THE SUBJECT by Meyers et al. filed Dec. 8 2008 and also claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 993 792 filed Dec. 6 2007 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates in general to a process and apparatus for quantum ghost imaging and in particular to a process using the properties of quantum ghost imaging to generate an image of an object via correlations between photons sound or quantum particles reflected off the object and with photons sound or quantum particles that have never interacted with the object.

The ability to image through obscuring media remains a problem in a variety of fields. By way of example imaging of distant objects through the obscuring media of smoke or clouds is a problem that plagues satellite imaging analysts firefighters drivers oceanographers astronomers military personnel and medical personnel. The ability to improve resolution in each of these exemplary instances represents an opportunity to derive more information from images and presumably the decisions made from such images. By way of example improved resolution in x ray or endoscopy medical imagery facilitates lower radiation dosing and diagnosis of abnormal morphologies earlier than currently possible with conventional imaging methodologies. Conventional imaging techniques have to a large extent arrived at the theoretical limits of image resolution owing to wavelength limited resolution optical element distortions and the reflective interaction between photons and an object to be imaged.

Ghost imaging holds the prospect of improving image resolution but efforts in regard to ghost imaging have met with limited success owing to a lack of understanding of the phenomena.

Currently quantum ghost imaging is largely dependent on the transmission of electromagnetic waves photons through the object to be imaged. However in most real world applications photonic transmission is impractical and instead of object light reflection is the basis of image formation. Even in transmissive imaging such as x ray imaging considerable image information occurs through consideration of reflection. Additionally other objects can best be imaged using the fluorescence of the object when illuminated by an external light source.

The first two photon imaging experiment was reported by Pittman et al. in Optical Imaging by Means of Two photon Quantum Entanglement Physical Review A Vol. 52 No. 5 November 1995. According to the article a two photon optical imaging experiment was performed based on the quantum nature of the signal and idler photon pairs produced in spontaneous parametric down conversion. An aperture placed in front of a fixed detector was illuminated by a signal beam through a convex lens. A sharp magnified image of the aperture was found in the coincidence counting rate when a mobile detector is scanned in the transverse plane of the idler beam at a specific distance in relation to the lens. The experiment was named ghost imaging due to its surprising nonlocal feature although the original purpose of the experiment was to study and to test the two particle EPR correlation in position and in momentum for an entangled two photon system. The experiments of ghost imaging in Pittman et al. Optical Imaging by Means of Two Photon Entanglement Phys. Rev. A Rapid Comm. Vol. 52 R3429 1995 and ghost interference by Strekalov et al Observation of Two Photon Ghost Interference and Diffraction Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 74 3600 1995 together stimulated the foundation of quantum imaging in terms of multi photon geometrical and physical optics. The prior art transmissive ghost imaging optical scheme using entangled photons of Pittman et al. is depicted in .

This experiment was inspired by the theoretical work reported by Klyshko in Usp. Fiz. Nauk 154 133 Sov. Phys. Usp. 31 74 1988 Phys. Lett. A 132299 1988 suggesting a non classical two photon interaction could exist. The Pittman experiment was immediately named ghost imaging due to its surprising nonlocal feature. The important physics demonstrated in that experiment nevertheless may not be the ghost . Indeed the original purpose of the Pittman experiment was to study and to test the two particle entanglement as originally detailed by Albert Einstein et al. Einstein Podolsky Rosen in Phys. Rev. 35 777 1935 to determine if there was a correlation in position and in momentum for an entangled two photon system. D Angelo and colleagues in Phys. Rev. A 72 013810 2005 showed that ghost images produced by separable sources are subject to the standard statistical limitations. However entangled states offer the possibility of overcoming such limitations to yield images that can achieve the fundamental limit through the high spatial resolution and nonlocal behavior of entangled systems.

Boto and colleagues in Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 2733 2000 later developed an entangled multi photon systems for sub diffraction limited imaging lithography and proposed a heuristic multiphoton absorption rate of a noon state and proved that the entangled N photon system may improve the spatial resolution of an imaging system by a factor of N despite the Rayleigh diffraction limit. The working principle of quantum lithography was experimentally demonstrated by D Angelo et al. in 2001 by taking advantage of an entangled two photon state of spontaneous parametric down conversion as described in Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 013603.

Quantum imaging has so far demonstrated two peculiar features 1 reproducing ghost images in a nonlocal manner and 2 enhancing the spatial resolution of imaging beyond the diffraction limit. Both the nonlocal behavior observed in the ghost imaging experiment and the apparent violation of the uncertainty principle explored in the quantum lithography experiment are due to the two photon coherent effect of entangled states which involves the superposition of two photon amplitudes a nonclassical entity corresponding to different yet indistinguishable alternative ways of triggering a joint detection event in the quantum theory of photodetection as articulated by Glauber in Phys. Rev. 130 2529 1963 and Phys. Rev. 131 2766 1963 . The nonlocal superposition of two photon states may never be understood classically. Classical attempts however have never stopped in the history of EPR studies as evidenced by Bennink et al. who demonstrated 2002 by experiment two co rotated laser beams produced a projection shadow of an object mask through coincidence measurements as published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 113601 2002 . Instead of having a superposition of a large number of two photon amplitudes Bennink et al. used two correlated laser beams imagine two back to back lasers to simulate each two photon amplitude one at a time. If the laser beam in the object arm is blocked by the mask at a certain rotating angle there would be no coincidence in that angle and consequently defines a corresponding position in the nonlocal image plane. The block unblock of the correlated laser beams thus projects a shadow of the object mask in coincidences. Interestingly this experiment has excited a number of discussions concerning certain historical realistic models of EPR Einstein Podolsky Rosen . Apparently Bennink et al. have provided experimental evidence to support the concept of classical physical reality. Perhaps the use of a transmitting mask as the object aperture function in the historical ghost imaging experiments may have been a factor responsible for this confused wrong idea.

The classical argument seems to get more support from thermal light ghost imaging because thermal light itself is considered as classical. Thermal light ghost imaging was proposed in 2004 by Gatti et al. in Phys. Rev. A 70 013802 Wang and co workers in quant ph 0404078 and quant ph 0407065 and Cai and Zhu in Phys. Rev. E 71 056607.

Thermal light ghost imaging for thermalized photons with a single CCD camera was used by Gatti et al. The main purpose was to simulate the two photon correlation of entangled states by a classical source. In fact two photon correlation of thermal radiation is not a new observation. Hanbury Brown and Twiss HBT demonstrated the second order correlation of thermal light spatially transverse and temporally longitudinal in 1956 as published in Nature 177 28 and Nature 178 1046 and Nature 178 1447. Differing from entangled states the correlation in chaotic radiation is only partial which means 50 visibility at most. Nevertheless chaotic light is a useful candidate for ghost imaging in certain applications. Recently a number of experiments successfully demonstrated certain interesting features of ghost imaging by using chaotic light. Representative of these experiments using chaotic light are those by A. Valencia and colleagues in Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 063601 2005 Scarcelli and colleagues in Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 063602 2006 Ferri and colleagues in Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 183602 2005 and Zhang and colleagues in Opt. Lett. 30 2354 2005 . A prior art transmissive ghost imaging optical scheme using thermalized photons Meyers Deacon Quantum Ghost Imaging Experiments SPIE Proceedings Vol. 6305 2006 is depicted in .

The HBT experiment was successfully interpreted as statistical correlation of intensity fluctuations instead of two photon coherence. A question about two photon ghost imaging is then naturally raised is the physics behind ghost imaging phenomenon a classical correlation of intensity fluctuations too To answer this question Scarcelli et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 063602 2006 demonstrated a near field ghost imaging of chaotic radiation. is a prior art optical scheme for these experiments. In this work Scarcelli et al. pointed out that 1 the classical interpretation leads to non physical conclusions in the case of entangled two photon ghost imaging and 2 even if the classical interpretation may work for HBT it will not work for the near field ghost imaging of chaotic radiation. HBT correlation is measured in far field which is essentially a momentum momentum self correlation of a radiation mode. In the Scarcelli et al. experimental setup however the measurement is in near field. In the near field for each position on the detection plane a point photodetector receives a large number of modes in the measurement. The classical interpretation of statistical correlation of intensity fluctuations will not work in this experimental setup as we know that different modes of chaotic light fluctuate randomly and independently. The fluctuations will cancel each other if more than one mode is involved in the measurement. On the other hand Scarcelli et al. proved a successful alternative interpretation in terms of two photon interference.

The experiment of Scarcelli et al. published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 039302 2007 that builds on the earlier work of this group detailed above has not been able to convince Gatti et al. that ghost imaging is quantum in nature as evidenced by the publication of Gatti et al. in Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 039301. This ongoing lack of theoretical understanding of ghost imaging has hampered efforts to develop reflective ghost imaging systems for practical field uses in such fields as satellite field medical and research imaging.

Thus there exists a need for a ghost imaging that is not dependent on the transmission properties of the object. Furthermore there is a need for ghost imaging the multi spectral properties of an object. An additional need exists for an imaging system that is tolerant of the scattering and distortion of an image as photons propagate through a distortion medium.

Ghost imaging in the prior art was dependent upon the transmission properties of an object. Accordingly there exists a need for image creation where the transmission of light through the object is not possible or advantageous such as when the object is opaque. Thus there exists a need for an imaging system wherein light can be reflected from an object for subsequent image transmission.

In conventional image generation systems a sufficient bandwidth necessary to transmit an image. There exists a need for image generation whereby the image can be generated and transmitted using minimal bandwidth such as for example using voltage detection readings.

Generally speaking for the two dimensional 2D images there are two major graphic types bitmap and vector image graphics. Three dimensional 3D images are similarly formed with more complicated positional information relating to the third dimension.

A bitmap or pixmap image file format contains spatial information as to the location of the pixel or bites within the image or picture being transmitted. The term bitmap is derived from a mapped array of bits and bitmapped and pixmap refer to the similar concept of a spatially mapped array of pixels. Both bitmapped and pixmapped formats contain spatial information. Raster graphics is the representation of images as an array of pixels.

Vector graphics are computer images that are stored and displayed in terms of vectors rather than points. Vector graphics utilizes inter alia points lines curves and shapes or polygon s which are all based upon mathematical equations to represent images in computer graphics.

Both bitmap and vector images utilize spatial information. A feature of a preferred embodiment of the present invention enables the transmission of an image without spatial information. As used herein the terminology without spatial information is defined as without positional information such as that found in bitmap or pix map or vector information such as that found in vector imaging.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes the concept that if the light generation source may be analyzed at a remote location an image may be detected by a detector for which the output is a voltage measurement.

The source of radiation may be one of an entangled thermal incoherent sun light bulb flame environmental radiation or chaotic light source. Thermal is a type of incoherent light. The present invention may be practiced using all wavelength forms of light e.g. X rays visible etc. . The photons from the light source are divided into two paths. In one path is the object to be imaged in the other path images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Any or all paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are then stored for future processing. The light in the object path is collected into a bucket detector and measured. The measurements of the bucket detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. The GGlauber coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. The present invention is not limited to photons and can be conducted with any quantum particle. The principles of the present invention are not limited to light and may be practiced utilizing e.g. using sound electron proton or neutron sources as the illuminating component of the ghost imager. Moreover the obscuring materials may comprise foliage or vegetation in remote sensing applications and tissue in medical applications Ghost imaging may be used to achieve higher resolution than the standard Rayleigh diffraction limit using entangled or non entangled quantum particles or other forms of radiation referenced herein.

The present invention is directed to a ghost imaging system that provides reflective object imaging with an improved sensitivity in the presence of an obscuring medium. In contrast to classical reflective object imaging in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the photon ghost image is theoretically less dependent on image distortion associated with photon transit through obscuring medium and in practice there is only nominal image distortion associated with light traveling through an obscuring medium when utilizing a preferred embodiment ghost imaging system. Representative obscuring media according to the present invention illustratively include fog an aerosol particulate whether suspended in air water or vacuum media turbulence liquid vegetation foliage tissue sand or frosted glass.

The present invention uses radiation from an entangled thermal or chaotic light source to generate ghost images. The photons from the light source are divided into two paths. In one path is the object to be imaged in the other path images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Any or all paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are then stored for future processing. The light in the object path is collected into a bucket detector and measured. The measurements of the bucket detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence of Equation 3 provide hereafter between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. This coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. One or more bucket detectors are used along with a spatially addressable detector to generate images from the joint detection correlations between the bucket detectors and the single pixel detector s . The resultant ghost corresponds to a convolution between the aperture function or the amplitude distribution function of the object and a function like second order correlation function of Glauber coherence. Furthermore the bucket detectors may be a charged coupled device CCD operating as a spatially integrated detector. Alternatively the spatially integrated detector may further comprise means for modifying sensitivity of specific pixels on the spatially integrated detector prior to producing the bucket detector signal. For example acting as a diffraction grating of a certain order or imprinting an identification mark. Any array of detectors that covers an area or any detector that scans an area may be used in place of a CCD.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

The present invention has utility as a ghost imaging system that provides reflective object imaging with an improved sensitivity in the presence of an obscuring medium. In contrast to conventional reflective object imaging the imaging conducted in accordance with the principles of the present invention referred to as a photon ghost image is capable of being substantially independent of image distortion associated with photon transit through obscuring media and practically has only nominal image distortion associated with light in ghost imaging system operating in an obscuring medium constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Representative obscuring media according to the present invention illustratively include fog an aerosol particulate whether suspended in air water or vacuum media turbulence liquid or frosted glass.

Ghost imaging may be used to achieve higher resolution than the standard Rayleigh diffraction limit using entangled or non entangled quantum particles or other forms of radiation referenced herein.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention uses radiation from an entangled thermal or chaotic light source to generate ghost images. The photons from the light source are divided into two paths. This may be accomplished for example by a beamsplitter which is an optical component that allows part of an electromagnetic beam to pass through and reflects the rest. Beamsplitters can be but are not restricted to cemented right prisms or partially silvered mirrors In addition in the case of naturally occurring sunlight which can be divided into two different paths by other means beam splitting is unnecessary. For example in the embodiment shown in if the light source is sunlight that radiates in multiple path directions then the beamsplitter may be omitted.

In a first path is the object to be imaged in the second path images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Either or both paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are then stored for future processing. The photons in the first or object path are collected by a bucket detector and measured. As used herein the term bucket detector includes a photo sensor that collects all the light scattered and incident on it without regard to spatial information e.g. a lens with a photodiode at the focal point of the lens. Measurements from the bucket detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. The GGlauber coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. One or more bucket detectors are used along with a spatially addressable detector to generate images from the joint detection correlations between the bucket detectors and the single pixel detector s . The resultant ghost corresponds to a convolution between the aperture function or the amplitude distribution function of the object A and a function like second order correlation function G as provided by Klyshko in Usp. Fiz. Nauk 154 133 Soy. Phys. Usp. 31 74 1988 or Phys. Lett. A 132299 1988 

An imaging system according to the present invention is shown in A A A B and where like reference numerals used among the figures have like meaning. Light source represents an incoherent partially coherent or chaotic light source that is operative in an air medium as the source of the illuminating light. An object receives a light source output and reflects light along path . The reflected light output is collected by a bucket detector and integrated for some exposure time. The integrated values of the intensity of output are transmitted via path to the two photon correlation computation subsystem . Paths and may utilize any form of a data route such as a wire radio frequency RF transmission field or an optical path. Output from a beam splitter is collected by a spatially addressable detector which may be e.g. a CMOS CCD charge coupled device array and or scanning fiber tip that is observing the source for the same exposure time at the bucket detector . The spatially addressable intensity values are transmitted via path to the two photon correlation computation subsystem which may include a computer processor etc. and include for example a coincidence circuit. Subsystem computes the two photon correlation quantum ghost image in accordance with Equation 3 above utilizing the input values from paths and and displays a correlated two photon quantum image on a monitor as shown in . Additionally one or more bucket detectors are optionally deployed in an inventive ghost imaging system such as those detailed with respect to A A A B and . An additional bucket detector positioned at a different angle is operative to observe the object with an angular distinct reflection relative to the detector as illuminated by the light source or alternatively the additional detector may observe a second object illuminated by the same light source. The detector collects reflected light reflected from object and integrated values of the intensity of reflected light are transmitted path to the two photon correlation computation subsystem . It is appreciated with angularly distinct detection of the same object by detectors and that stereoscopic information about the object is so obtained. Furthermore there could be a plurality of detectors and the additional detector is merely illustrative of this principle of the present invention. If n quantity of detectors are looking at the same object subsystem may be modified to calculate the Gcorrelation image to enhance or increase the contrast and or resolution.

An object in addition to being a three dimensional opaque object the object may also be a semi opaque or opaque mask from which scattered and reflected entangled photons can be collected upon merging with another photon of an entangled pair which is operative as a reference photon. An example of this opaque mask is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein. The reference photon thereby acts as an ancilla which may be saved for a time period equal to that over which the reflecting or scattering photon takes to merge into the photon stream. The term ancilla as used herein refers to a unit of ancillary information utilized for an addition check or verification. The existence of the entangled photon pair in the merge stream as shown in FIG. 5 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 between elements 218 and 220 is indicative that one of the entangled photons of the pair has reflected or scattered from the object and thereby identifies the existence of the object. A significant number of entangled photon pairs provide ghost image data as to the shape of the object which is determined from the entangled photon pair measurement according to the present invention. The present invention may also be used for encryption and coding purposes as described in the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference.

A ghost image is the result of a convolution between the aperture function amplitude distribution function of the object A right arrow over and a function like second order correlation function G right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 1 where G right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over m right arrow over and right arrow over are 2D vectors of the transverse coordinate in the object plane and the image plane respectively and m is the magnification factor. The term function as used herein relates to the Dirac delta function which is a mathematical construct representing an infinitely sharp peak bounding unit area expressed as x that has the value zero everywhere except at x 0 where its value is infinitely large in such a way that its total integral is 1. The function characterizes the perfect point to point relationship between the object plane and the image plane. If the image comes with a constant background as in this experiment the second order correlation function G right arrow over right arrow over in Eq. 1 must be composed of two parts right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 2 where Gis a constant. The value of Gdetermines the visibility of the image. One may immediately connect Eq. 2 with the Gfunction of thermal radiation 3 where GG Gis a constant and G right arrow over right arrow over represents a nonlocal position to position correlation. Although the second order correlation function Gis formally written in terms of Gis as shown in equation 3 the physics are completely different. As we know Gis usually measured by one photodetector representing the first order coherence of the field i.e. the ability of observing first order interference. Here in Eq. 3 Gis measured by two independent photodetectors at distant space time points and represents a nonlocal EPR correlation.

Differing from the phenomenological classical theory of intensity intensity correlation the quantum theory of joint photodetection known conventionally as Glauber s theory and published in Phys. Rev. 130 2529 1963 and Phys. Rev. 131 2766 1963 dips into the physical origin of the phenomenon. The theory gives the probability of a specified joint photodetection event right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 4 and leaves room for us to identify the superposed probability amplitudes. In Eq. 4 Eand Eare the negative and positive frequency field operators at space time coordinates of the photodetection event and circumflex over represents the density operator describing the radiation. In Eq. 4 we have simplified the calculation to 2D.

In the photon counting regime it is reasonable to model the thermal light in terms of single photon states for joint detection 

Assuming a large number of atoms that are ready for two level atomic transition. At most times the atoms are in their ground state. There is however a small chance for each atom to be excited to a higher energy level and later release a photon during an atomic transition from the higher energy level E E 0 back to the ground state E. It is reasonable to assume that each atomic transition excites the field into the following state 

For this simplified two level system the density matrix that characterizes the state of the radiation field excited by a large number of possible atomic transitions is thus

The electric field operator in terms of the transverse mode and coordinates can be written as follows 

where right arrow over is the annihilation operator for the mode corresponding to right arrow over and g right arrow over right arrow over is the Green s function associated with the propagation of the field from the source to the jth detector 23 . Substituting the field operators into Eq. 6 we obtain

Completing the normal square of Eq. 8 it is easy to find that the sum of the normal square terms corresponding to the constant of Gin Eq. 2 g right arrow over right arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over GG and the cross term g right arrow over right arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over G right arrow over right arrow over gives the function of position position correlation dright arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 9 where

Substituting this function together with the constant Ginto Eq. 1 an equal sized lensless image of A right arrow over is observed in the joint detection between the CCD array and the photon counting detector D. The visibility of the image is determined by the value of G.

The inventive ghost images are thus successfully interpreted as the result of two photon interference. The two photon interference results in a point point correlation between the object plane and the image plane and yields a ghost image of the object by means of joint photodetection.

An inventive imaging system is depicted generically in and in exemplary actual imaging systems in A A B and where like reference numerals used among the figures have like meaning. The optional detector is omitted from A A B and for visual clarity. A light source is provided to emit photons. A light source operative in the present invention provides quantum entangled photons or thermal photons and illustratively includes sunlight thermalized laser light partially coherent or chaotic an artificial incoherent light source such as an incandescent light bulb or an entangled photon source. The present invention may be practiced with a partially coherent chaotic incoherent or entangled light sources. The media through which photons emitted from the light source travel includes air water and the vacuum of space as well as evacuated light paths produced within a laboratory. A first portion of photons emitted from the light source contact an object to be imaged. The photons are reflected from the object along light path . A spatially integrated detector receives photons for a period of time. The detector integrates the received photons for the period of time to yield a bucket detector signal that corresponds to integrated values of photonic intensity. The signal is conveyed to a computer . A second portion of photonic light emission from the light source is received at a second spatially addressable detector aimed at the light source . The second light emission portion reaches the second detector independent of interaction with the object. The detector collects the emission for a second period of time. To facilitate computation of a ghost image preferably the integration period of time for the first detector and the integration second period of time for the second detector are the same. A trigger signal is conveyed from the computer to initiate photon collection by the detectors and and if present . A spatially resolved signal corresponding to spatially addressable intensity values for the emission contacting the detector are also conveyed to the computer . The computer computes a two photon correlation ghost image in accordance with Eq. 3 from the bucket detector signal and the spatially resolved signal . A correlated two photon quantum image is displayed on a monitor .

Each of the detectors or is illustratively e.g. a single photon counting detector light intensity detector or a charge couple device. In the instance when both detectors and are charge coupled devices this affords the additional feature of being able to modify the sensitivity of specific detector pixels on the bucket detector prior to producing the bucket detector signal . In this way a ghost image may be impressed by either turning off or turning on certain pixels in the shape of the object to be imaged prior to summation of the total number of photon counts impingent upon the charge couple device detector . It is further appreciated that pixels may be partially or fully sensitized to provide grayscales of an image which further can be modified with artificial color to provide still additional imaging detail.

In the specific object is a toy soldier. Additionally depicts electronic circuitry components of the computer relative to the detectors and . A coincidence circuit provides detection coordination between detectors and . A photon registration history for detector is also provided at and provides a temporal log for the integrated values transmitted to the computer . The second spatially addressable detector is provided with spatially addressable output that is subsequently fed to computer and onto display . For the optical bench schematic of the actual ghost image display on a monitor is provided in and is discernable as the original toy figure. It is appreciated that the image quality shown in is improved by increasing photon flux along path .

It is appreciated that the optical schematics of are particularly well suited for instances when the photons or emitted by the light source represent a stimulating incident light and reflected photons from the object are stimulated fluorescence light. It is appreciated that the stimulated fluorescence light in such instances is of a longer wavelength than the instant photons .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment as depicted in the laser source in conjunction with the rotating phase screen diffuser emits light uncorrelated in space and time. Thus the speckle images are random distributions in space and time. The beam splitter essentially halves the intensity of the initial speckle image from diffuser and splits it into two different paths and as shown in B. Spatially correlated means that correlations are present at any given instant of time between the two paths . There will be a point to point correlation between the speckle images on each path although paths are spatially distinct. The coincidence detection by the processor is temporal i.e. correlated at specific time intervals. Correlation or Correlated as used in the present application means a logical or natural association between two or more paths i.e. an interdependence relationship interrelationship correspondence or linkage. For example the present invention may be used in conjunction with sunlight an incoherent light source whereby a first and second plurality of photons are emitted from the sun at the same time. If the first detector is located on the earth ground receives the first plurality of photons and the second detector located in space such as in a satellite orbiting the earth receives a second plurality of photons the time intervals need to be synchronized i.e. a first plurality of photons which strikes the ground object is correlated with a second plurality of photons detected in space at synchronized timing intervals. It can be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art that if the detected samples from the first and second plurality of photons are not part of the correlation it will not contribute to the Gimage as mathematically described in the above equations. Further coincidence has to do with two measurements at the same or approximately the same time. For example when a coincidence occurs one must compensate for the media involved to take into account the variation in particle velocity between different media.

To confirm the ability to generate a ghost image of an object through an obscuring medium an obscuring medium of frosted glass is inserted along the optical path of . is an instantaneous image of the light source collected on the detector . is an averaged image of the light source obtained from detector on averaging of 100 such images according to . is a Gimage of the object obtained by correlation to photon ghost imaging from signals and . The instantaneous image of the obscured reflection object is provided in while the averaged image of the obscured reflection object is provided in and substantially corresponds to that depicted in .

A preferred embodiment of the present invention may utilize a light source emitting radiation that is one of an entangled thermal or chaotic light source. The photons from the light source may be divided into two paths one path for the object to be imaged and the other path in which images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Any or all paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled thermal or chaotic light may then stored for future processing. The light in the object path is collected into a bucket detector and measured. The measurements of the bucket detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. The GGlauber coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention. As used in the following claims the term processor means one or more processing units central processing units processor cores microprocessors digital signal processors multiprocessors computers and or controllers which may be connected together or to other circuitry in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As used in the foregoing claims the term subject includes object s area person s setting place mask or scene.

