---

title: Mobile content management
abstract: A computer system interacts with a mobile device to support the needs of remote users and may leverage e-ink technology so that a mobile user can access, manage and read documents without being tethered. The mobile device allows for both user-initiated downloads from a corporate entity as well as corporate pushes by the corporate entity to ensure that the user has updated content. The computer system receives a request for selected electronic content, where the request includes updated configuration information and user identification. The computer system then maps the user identification to a device type from a plurality of device types. Embodiments support different device types including electronic ink display capable devices. The selected electronic content is then downloaded to the mobile device. Subsequently, the computer system pushes updated versions of the selected electronic content based on the updated configuration information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930498&OS=08930498&RS=08930498
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08930498
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
Aspects of the embodiments generally relate to a computer system that integrates a business infrastructure to different mobile device types. In particular electronic content is pushed to an electronic ink device based on updated configuration information.

Bank customers are increasingly using mobile banking services e.g. M Banking mbanking and SMS Banking to perform balance checks account transactions and payments via a mobile device such as a mobile phone. For example according to one industry survey banks that offer mobile financial services may increase the number of new customer acquisitions by as much as sixty percent. The current pace of mobile adoption appears to be exceeding that of past innovations including ATMs debit cards and online banking. About a third of consumers are currently using or at least considering using mobile financial services in the next year and some projections forecast that mobile financial service adoption will exceed the use of on line banking by 2015.

Mobile banking is currently most often performed via short message service SMS or the mobile Internet but also may use special programs called clients downloaded to the mobile device. New types of mobile devices are being and will continue to be introduced in the future. For example as smartphone adoption continues to rise and more sites and apps accommodate them our culture is headed for a very mobile world at a very fast pace. However content distribution to mobile devices is currently limited difficult and done sporadically or not at all. It is thus important that mobile banking support the ubiquity of mobile devices.

Aspects of the embodiments address one or more of the issues mentioned above by disclosing methods computer readable media and apparatuses for supporting a mobile implementation channel that enables secure mobile customer alerts content delivery event and location awareness and context integration that can be leveraged across multiple lines of business using basic interfaces. The mobile implementation channel enables secure reach to many mobile device types abstracts away delivery peculiarities and provides logging and security support when necessary taking into account who the individual is where they are and what they may be doing thus leveraging identity location e.g. location based services and activity e.g. business process management .

With an aspect of the embodiments a mobile device supports the needs of remote users and may leverage e ink technology so that a user can access manage and read documents without being tethered to a computer. The mobile device allows for both user initiated downloads from a corporate entity as well as corporate pushes by the corporate entity to ensure that the user has updated content.

With another aspect of the embodiments a computer system receives a request for selected electronic content where the request includes updated configuration information and user identification. The computer maps the user identification to a device type from a plurality of device types. Embodiments support different device types including electronic ink display capable devices. The selected electronic content is then downloaded to the mobile device of the user. Subsequently the computer system pushes updated versions of the selected electronic content based on the updated configuration information.

Aspects of the embodiments may be provided in a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the process steps described herein.

These and other aspects of the embodiments are discussed in greater detail throughout this disclosure including the accompanying drawings.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

Mobile banking Mobile banking may include mobile banking services e.g. M Banking mbanking and SMS Banking for performing balance checks account transactions and payments via a mobile device such as a mobile phone and the like. Financial institutions are offering products that are directed to mobile banking. For example a cash management banking channel which features intuitive technology that allows commercial and corporate clients to move beyond transactions to focus on their core businesses and provides a single point of access to global treasury debt cash management investments trade finance foreign exchange services and other financial capabilities. Also financial institutions may offer free mobile banking in which customers use mobile phones or devices to bank in several ways Mobile Web or with Mobile Applications.

Push A push or server push may include for example the delivery of information on the Web that is initiated by the information server rather than by the information user recipient or client as it usually is. In contrast a pull is generated by specifically requesting information from a particular source. Downloading web pages with a web browser is an example of pull technology.

In accordance with various aspects of the embodiments methods computer readable media and apparatuses are disclosed to support a mobile implementation channel that enables secure mobile customer alerts content delivery event and location awareness and context integration that can be leveraged across multiple lines of business using basic interfaces. The mobile implementation channel enables secure reach to many mobile device types abstracts away delivery peculiarities and provides logging and security support when necessary taking into account who the individual is where they are and even what they may be doing thus leveraging identity location e.g. location based services and activity e.g. business process management .

Mobile banking is currently most often performed via short message service SMS or the mobile Internet but may also use special programs called clients downloaded to the mobile device. However content distribution to mobile devices is currently limited difficult and done sporadically or not at all. In addition it is often difficult to distribute content across multiple device types to relate devices to location or to integrate with existing workflow implementations enterprise content management ECM or business intelligence aka reporting .

Alerts content delivery event and location awareness can be provided to an appropriate mobile channel based on the context for multiple lines of business. Business process may be based on a business infrastructure that further applies a layer of security in which a request may be generated at appropriate points of business process . Examples of requests include but are not limited to an alert to a user push content to the user and obtaining the location of the user.

Block then sends a message to a wireless device of the user based on the device type. Different types of mobile device types may be supported including mobile Internet devices and SMS capable mobile devices. With some embodiments block is implemented as middleware that is executed at Context Server as shown in . Block processes the request based on who is the user where the user is what the user is doing and what the user wants. The request may be initiated though an application programming interface API in which business process provides a user identity. With some embodiments the API may be based on REST style architectures that consist of clients and servers. Clients initiate requests to servers. The servers then process requests and return appropriate responses. Requests and responses are built around the transfer of representations of resources. A resource may be essentially any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed. A representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource. Block then determines what type of device the user is associated with and directs the request accordingly. Also if content is being pushed to the user the format of the content may be formatted in accordance with the associated device type.

Business process may be associated with different types of businesses. While some of the examples described herein may be related to financial institutions embodiments may also support other types of businesses including manufacturing service businesses retailers information businesses and high technology businesses.

With some embodiments mobile banking provides a richer set of functioning alternatives to the general web based banking features. However the alternatives typically circumvent a piecemeal fragmented fashion with little continuity. As the feature and customer space grows both in size and capability there may be more offerings and consequently embodiments should avoid potentially more fragmentation so that a user customer is offered a coherent relationship channel to the financial institution.

System provides a mobile implementation channel to enable secure mobile customer alerts content delivery event and location awareness and context integration that can be leveraged across multiple lines of business using simple interfaces. System enables secure reach to different mobile device types abstracts away delivery peculiarities and provides logging and security support when necessary taking into account who the user of a mobile device is where the user is and what the user may be doing consequently leveraging identity location location based services and activity business process management . Thus system processes requests based on the user context where supporting system components may be referenced with the term wContext in the description herein.

With an aspect of the embodiments system supports enterprise integration using either a console device library RESTful API or direct industry standard XML Process Definition Language XPDL or Java specification requests e.g. JSR for business process management BPM or enterprise content management ECM respectfully. In addition some embodiments handle the security logging and delivery details based on the request preference.

System may be modeled into layered tiers including application tier external wireless gateway tier and carrier networks tier in which system components are partitioned into application components external wireless gateway components and carrier network components respectively.

Context Server determines which devices the users identified administrators have from request through HTTP server and pushes the alert request through the appropriate mobile channel s to the devices. For different device types the request may be directed to different mobile channel types. For example with certain devices the push may be sent through an External Wireless Gateway to a Network Operations Center . With other devices the push may be sent through a Push Notification Service Wireless Gateway . With other devices mobile internet device or E reader device the push may be sent directly to device through the wireless network and processed by the client component . Also Context Server may support short message service SMS capable mobile devices e.g. mobile device through SMS aggregator which functions as an SMS gateway.

Request may include one or more request type including alert location request push ECM content and content. Request may be initiated from a Web console device or application via the API. With some embodiments request includes a user identity. Context Server may access data repository in order to obtain the type of device type for the user s device. Context Server consequently directs the request through the appropriate mobile channel type based on the device type.

With some embodiments client components provides the appropriate device type of mobile devices to Context Server when the mobile device registers. Also with some embodiments client components obtain location information for the mobile device e.g. from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver and report the location information when a request is received from Context Server . Consequently client components automatically provide overhead information to system so that the user is not burdened with inputting this information.

With traditional systems when a cash management user is locked out of the user s account the user contacts e.g. by phone email one of the designated cash management administrators at the user s company. The contacted administrator then logs into the cash management service via desktop laptop and submits the unlock request. A second administrator then is contacted e.g. by phone email to approve the request in the cash management service via desktop laptop .

With an aspect of the embodiments system enables an administrator to unlock and approve unlocks from mobile device or so that the administrator does not have to be at their desk or start up their laptop. An automatic push alert notification is generated so that the system notifies the next person in the process automatically once a step is completed.

The scenario shown in assumes that the user customer after being locked out selects a link Request Account Unlock in the cash management service. This action causes the cash management service to push an alert message push to the designated administrator s for the user s company. The first administrator sees an alert on the administrator s mobile device for a Locked User in screenshot . When the first administrator clicks on View the first administrator is presented with screenshot so that the first administrator can sign in. The first administrator is then presented with Unlock User page where the first administrator can select the user s and submit the unlock request. Once the request has been successfully submitted the first administrator can use the Alert Approver in screenshot to notify a second administrator that there is a request that needs to be approved.

With some embodiments an administrator can select the Contact button at any point during the scenario to call generate a SMS message or e mail the user or another administrator from the administrator s mobile device. The Main Menu may allow the user to unlock and approve users directly.

The embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computing platform may have a processor for controlling overall operation of the computing platform and its associated components including RAM ROM communications module and memory . Computing platform typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by computing platform and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise a combination of computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by computing device .

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. Modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Although not shown RAM may include one or more are applications representing the application data stored in RAM memory while the computing device is on and corresponding software applications e.g. software tasks are running on the computing platform .

Communications module may include an interface to communicate with a wireless gateway e.g. gateways SMS aggregator or directly with a wireless carrier network.

Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling computing platform to perform various functions e.g. processes as shown in respectively. For example memory may store software used by computing platform such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternatively some or all of the computer executable instructions for computing platform may be embodied in hardware or firmware not explicitly shown .

Database may provide storage of electronic content for a mapping a user to a device type or for storing configuration information to pull and push content to the user. While database is shown to be internal to computing platform database may be external to computing platform with some embodiments.

Additionally one or more application programs used by the computing platform according to an illustrative embodiment may include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication including for example email short message service SMS and voice input and speech recognition applications.

Embodiments of the invention may include forms of computer readable media. Computer readable media may include any available media that can be accessed by a computing platform . Computer readable media may comprise storage media and communication media. Storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions object code data structures program modules or other data. Communication media may include any information delivery media and typically embody data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism.

Although not required one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method a data processing system or as a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions. For example a computer readable medium storing instructions to cause a processor to perform steps of a method in accordance with aspects of the embodiments is contemplated. For example aspects of the method steps disclosed herein may be executed on a processor on a computing platform . Such a processor may execute computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium.

As understood by those skilled in the art the steps that follow in the Figures may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

In the flow diagrams shown in the user may change in a scenario as the scenario progresses. For example in flow diagram the user initially corresponds to the cash management user. Subsequently the administrator becomes the user in order to approve the unlocking of the account for the cash management user.

At block a cash management user submits a request to the cash management system which is included in the infrastructure as business process as shown in to unlock the user s locked account corresponding to screenshots as shown in . The cash management system routes the request through its workflow and identifies the administrators needed to approve the unlock request at block .

The cash management s workflow then sends an alert request in which the appropriate administrators are identified via the API at block and consequently the API sends request as shown in to HTTP Server at block . HTTP Server sends request at block to application server which consequently sends the request to Context Server at block .

Context Server determines which devices the users identified administrators have from the request and pushes the alert request through the appropriate channel s at block . For different device types the request may be directed differently. For example with certain devices the push may be sent through an External Wireless Gateway to a Network Operations Center . With other devices the push may be sent through a Wireless Gateway . With another device the push is sent directly to device through the wireless network and processed by client component .

The bank loan officer initiates request to system at block where the request includes an alert message and document content from a Context Request page not explicitly shown that is displayed on a Web console. Consequently the API forwards request as shown in to HTTP Server at block . HTTP server sends request at block to application server which consequently sends the request to Context Server at block .

Context Server determines which devices the user has from the request and pushes the alert request and content through the appropriate wireless channels at block For different device types the request and content may be directed differently. For example with certain devices the push may be sent through an External Wireless Gateway to a Network Operations Center . With other devices the push may be sent through a Wireless Gateway . With another device the push is sent directly to device through the wireless network and processed by client component . The pushes may also be sent securely and are logged.

At block a customer user registers with the enterprise content management ECM system which may support business process as shown in to have account statements pushed to the customer s device at a desired frequency e.g. every month . The ECM system schedules itself at block to send request to Context Server at the desired times e.g. on the first business day of each month .

At each desired time ECM system fetches the request account statement for the user at block . The ECM system then issues request with an alert type user identification and account statement via an API request which is directed via HTTP server . HTTP server sends request at block to application server which consequently sends the request to Context Server at block .

Context Server determines which devices the user has from the request and pushes the alert request and account statement through the appropriate wireless channels at block . For different device types the request and content may be directed differently. For example with certain devices the push may be sent through an External Wireless Gateway to a Network Operations Center . With other devices the push may be sent through a Wireless Gateway . With another device the push is sent directly to device through the wireless network and processed by client component . The pushes are typically sent securely and are logged.

At block the banking manager user submits a location request for the manager s associates through a Context Request page that is displayed on the manager s Web console. However embodiments also support the manager initiating a request through another type of device including devices . The request may include a list of users associates as well as user information. Consequently a application executing on the Web console initiates request at block with a location type and user identifications of the associates and manager via an API request which is directed via HTTP server . HTTP server sends request at block to application server which consequently sends the request to Context Server at block .

Context Server determines which devices the user has from the request and pushes the location request to each device through the appropriate wireless channels at block . For different device types the request and content may be directed differently. For example with certain devices the push may be sent through an External Wireless Gateway to a Network Operations Center . With other devices the push may be sent through a Wireless Gateway . With another device the push is sent directly to device through the wireless network and processed by client component . The pushes are typically sent securely and are logged.

At block the location request push is received and processed by the client component on each device of the manager s associates.

At blocks users register with Context Server in order to provide the device types of each user s device. However registrations typically occur at different times when user devices become active.

When a user e.g. a manager requests a location request at block device locations of selected users e.g. associates are fetched at block and the location information is provided to the requesting user at block .

Request which may correspond to request as shown in is then sent from infrastructure to wireless system with a user identification and query information that are contained in query message . Wireless system e.g. context server as shown in accesses customer profile information to determine the device type of terminal and the query treatment for the customer. For example the customer profile information may provide the customer s account type and may be indicative of whether the customer prefers human interaction with a bank representative. Based on the customer profile information context server may generate invitation message with contact information e.g. a telephone number for the customer to call in order to reach a bank representative and send message to terminal through the appropriate type of communication channel. While shows that terminal generates message and receives invitation message messages and may be associated with different terminals i.e. the customer generates the query request and receives the query response on different terminals .

While shows system sending invitation message server may determine that only general information e.g. the location of a bank branch or ATM be sent to terminal without inviting the customer to communicate directly with the bank representative. The general information may be based on specific information associated with terminal such as the terminal s location so that the closest ATM or bank branch is provided.

If the customer is invited to communicate directly with a bank representative based on the customer profile the customer may indicate whether bank representative should set up a connection to customer s wireless terminal e.g. chat session or telephone call as indicated by invitation response . System provides invitation response to infrastructure and the bank representative may then initiate non gateway connection to terminal without further interaction with system . Alternatively the customer may prefer to initiate a connection using contact information provided in invitation rather than having the bank representative call the customer.

Prior to leaving the office with traditional systems users often have to search many documents all housed in different places throughout internal and external systems. Remote users cannot always access their company s networks while on the road so the remote users often resort to printing out critical documents prior to leaving the place of business. This approach often creates a conflict with efforts to reduce paper consumption. Hours of preparation and printing may be expended for each sales call in order to identify and find the right documents to support deals learn about industries and keep up with product information. Also there may be a need to keep all the documents in hard copy form so the employee does not have to rely on finding Wi Fi signals for accessing the company s internal systems. These activities may not add value in a sales person s day and consequently decrease company productivity.

With an aspect of the embodiments a consumer focused product is migrated into an integrated corporate mobile filing system allowing sales associates to have real time access to critical documents while in a mobile environment without being tethered to a laptop computer. Consequently a new tool is provided for corporations or other organizations that provides value that traditional systems do not. The combination of a mobile reading device e.g. device corresponding to device as shown in with an integrated internal system corporate entity and corresponding to system as shown in for administering the management of the content on a device that does not currently exist with traditional systems. Even though corporate employees typically have to juggle hundreds of documents daily corporate entity may support an employee when the employee is away from the office on sales calls or other business related activities. For example necessary or critical documents may be pushed to an employee s device automatically by a manager or other individual associated with an organization.

With an aspect of the embodiments secure and user friendly mobile device is dedicated to the needs of remote users employees e.g. a global sales force technicians and repair personnel . Device leverages the e ink technology so that an e ink reader allows a user to access manage and read documents without being tethered to a computer. Device allows for both user initiated downloads from corporate entity corresponding to pull of corporate data as well as corporate pushes by corporate entity corresponding to push of corporate data in order to ensure that an employee is equipped with all the necessary information for the employee s job when they are away from the office. With an aspect of the embodiments device which may function as a stand alone device is integrated with web platform that administers all pushes of information to device .

Referring to system may include corporate entity . According to an aspect of the embodiments corporate entity may push updated documents to device when a previously pulled document has been revised. For example documents may be pushed to mobile device based on update configuration information e.g. time of updating or frequency of updating documents .

With an aspect of the embodiments technology is incorporated to display text on a screen of device in a way that is easily readable even in sunlight. E reader device may allow consumers to store large volumes of text in the form of books magazines and newspapers. Device may support electronic paper e paper or electronic ink display to mimic the appearance of ordinary ink on paper. Unlike a flat panel display which uses a backlight to illuminate its pixels electronic paper typically reflects light like ordinary paper and is capable of holding text and images indefinitely without drawing electricity while allowing the image to be changed later.

Pushing content from corporate entity to device may offer a number of capabilities for a business user as well as reduce paper consumption. For example an associate may quickly and easily obtain and store product updates and industry documentation. Managers may also ensure that associates have necessary updated information in an essentially real time environment by initiating a push for the selected information to selected remote users. Consequently associates can review draft documents and make notes for changes quickly and easily access and store a multitude of newspapers and industry magazines and access mobile device without a Wi Fi hot spot. Moreover remote technicians can access volumes of instructional manuals.

Referring to configuration information is received by corporate entity from device for pulling and or pushing content at block . For example the user may enter selected documents through a document menu not explicitly shown . In addition the user may enter information for updating the content where the content is pushed by corporate entity at block . Alternatively with some embodiments the configuration information may be automatically entered by client component so that the user is not burdened to enter the information.

The selected documents content are then pushed to device at block . Process subsequently determines whether the selected documents should be updated at block . If so the documents are pushed at block . Referring to for example the updated documents may be pushed from Context Server via a wireless carrier network tier to e reader device .

According to an additional or alternative aspect e ink reader users may elect to subscribe to information feeds such as information streams newspapers and other documents that are periodically or aperiodically updated. The subscriptions may be processed by a document provider such that when an update occurs or new information is available the data may be automatically pushed to a user s e ink reader. In one or more arrangements the information may be provided to a user s e ink reader rather than other devices associated with the user based on the nature of the information and the readability of documents on e ink readers. For example newspapers or other documents with significant amounts of text and thus a corporate system may automatically select to transmit the newspaper or other document to the e ink reader rather than for example a smartphone device. Alternatively or additionally the user may select the device to receive the subscribed information. Further the schedule upon which information is updated or pushed to the user s device may be defined by the user or may be automatically defined based on when the information is updated or some other schedule.

Aspects of the embodiments have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the embodiments. They may determine that the requirements should be applied to third party service providers e.g. those that maintain records on behalf of the company .

