---

title: System and method of capacity management for provisioning and managing network access and connectivity
abstract: A system and method is provided for capacity management of network connectivity between endpoints coupled to one another via a circuit. An inventory of network elements may be maintained in a database. A circuit designer may be presented with network elements that may be selected when designing the circuit between endpoints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843628&OS=08843628&RS=08843628
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08843628
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
The disclosure relates generally to the field of carrier network connectivity management and more particularly to capacity management of network elements and facilities providing carrier neutral network access connectivity.

A core network access provisioning platform also referred to herein as Core platform provides secure and dedicated long haul transport over the platform s private backbone network. The Core platform acts as a neutral gateway and virtual point of presence into significantly more providers than those that would be otherwise available to a customer. The Core platform intersects hundreds of carrier networks and enables additional control including but not limited to location speed and value. The Core platform can deliver local connectivity to any endpoint in North America.

The Core platform may provide an ability to design a circuit that couples at least one endpoint to at least one other endpoint based on customer requests for network connectivity between the endpoints. For example a computer server in Rhode Island may be coupled to a computer server in Florida using a circuit designed provided by the Core platform. The circuit may include one or more segments coupled to one another to form the circuit. In order to provide the customer with a circuit that has the best price performance value segments from many suppliers may be selected and integrated at unique integration points in the platform s backbone network in addition to segments provided by the Core platform itself. In other words selection of segments from the backbone network itself and or one or more suppliers may be based on which set of segments for the circuit provide the best price performance value for the customer request. When the circuit includes a segment from one or more suppliers other than the backbone network the segment from the one or more suppliers may be coupled to the backbone network at an interconnect point. In other words the interconnect point may couple the backbone network with an outside or third party vendor of network services. Thus the circuit may include all or a portion of the backbone network provided by the Core platform and or all or a portion of outside vendor networks.

Each segment may terminate at one or more equipment which may be part of Core platform i.e. the private backbone network . Each equipment may include channels ports being used to couple the segment. Without information related to network capacity a user may be unable to design an appropriate circuit. For example without a real time inventory of available equipment the user may attempt to add a segment that includes equipment that is unavailable. Equipment may be unavailable because for example it is already in use by another circuit is undergoing maintenance or other down time and or is otherwise not available for use. Additionally without an inventory of channels of existing circuits that may be available for use optimal use of circuits facilities may be difficult to achieve.

Furthermore the user may manually enter the ports channel equipment being used in the designed circuit without any constraints which may present problems such as among others data entry errors fictitious names i.e. made up names and or other data integrity errors.

In some implementations of the invention the disclosure relates to a system and method for capacity management of network connectivity between endpoints coupled to one another via a circuit. In some implementations of the invention network capacity information may be maintained in a database. In some implementations of the invention a circuit designer may be presented with network elements that may be selected when designing a circuit between endpoints. In some implementations of the invention when a network element is selected the capacity information may be updated to indicate the use of the network element so that the inventory of what is available among other information may be maintained.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like items.

Network management server may include a processor circuitry and or other hardware configured to execute computer readable instructions. According to one aspect of the invention network management system may include one or more tangible computer readable storage media configured to store one or more software modules wherein the software modules include computer readable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform the functions described herein. According to one implementation network management server may comprise computer hardware programmed with a computer application having one or more software modules that enable the various features and functions of the invention. Non limiting examples of the software modules in the application may include one or more of a circuit design manager a database manager and or other modules for performing the features and functions described herein.

Users may interact with network management server via one or more client devices . . . . Client devices . . . may each comprise or otherwise access a user interface such as an Application Programming Interface API or a Graphical User Interface GUI . In some implementations of the invention the user may include a computer program a person or other entity. Through the user interface the user may perform various operations that may facilitate interaction with network management server . For example the user may via the user interface provide customer requests for network connectivity i.e. establishing a network connection between endpoints design one or more circuits view update manage circuits request one or more reports and or perform other operations. Client devices . . . may include a processor not otherwise illustrated in circuitry and or other hardware operable to execute computer readable instructions.

According to one implementation circuit design manager may manage circuit design between endpoints. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may receive a customer request to establish a network connection between a first endpoint and a second endpoint. In other words a request associated with designing a circuit between endpoints may be received. The customer request may include define one or more parameters for the network connection. In some implementations of the invention the one or more parameters may include for example network speed bandwidth price and or other parameters.

In some implementations of the invention a circuit designer may design a circuit by selecting one or more segments from the private backbone network from external network carriers providers or both based on the customer request i.e. one or more parameters of the customer request . In this manner the circuit designer may that may provide a best price performance value for the customer based on the one or more parameters of the customer request. In some implementations of the invention the circuit designer is a person such as an a technician a computing device configured to design a circuit based on the one or more parameters and or other user or entity that may design the circuit. In some implementations circuit design manager may provide the circuit designer with various segments from which to specify i.e. select to design the circuit via the user interface. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may generate a GUI to be presented to the circuit designer.

In some implementations of the invention a segment may terminate at one or more network elements. Thus in some implementations of the invention a segment may be associated with or otherwise be defined by the one or more network elements. In some implementations of the invention the one or more network elements may include but not be limited to one or more equipment associated with the private backbone network and or external network providers a rack a shelf or a chassis associated with the equipment a slot a card and or a panel a channel or a port associated with the equipment and or other elements that may be used to couple a first endpoint with a second endpoint.

In some implementations of the invention each chassis may have a slot for which a card may be inserted. Cards may have ports with copper wiring. Each card may be prewired to a particular panel for example card A may be prewired to panel A . Circuits may be wired to panels. Each equipment may include channels ports being used to couple the segment. In one implementation circuits may be designed by choosing equipment and or choosing channels ports associated with the equipment.

In some implementations of the invention a segment may include one or more first network elements at one end of the segment and one or more second network elements at the other end of the segment. In some implementations of the invention the one or more network elements may couple a first segment with a second segment. In some implementations of the invention the one or more network elements may be part of the private backbone network part of one or more external network providers and or part of another network. In these implementations when a segment is selected one or more network elements associated with or otherwise defining at least one end of the segment may be selected. In other words specification selection of a segment may include specification selection of one or more network elements associated with the segment.

In some implementations of the invention network management system may store track or otherwise maintain capacity information that may indicate an inventory availability and or other information related to the one or more network elements.

Because the one or more network elements may include various equipment components of equipment and or other elements a real time model of network element capacity at multiple even fine grained levels of network elements may be generated. In this manner efficient coupling of a first endpoint with a second endpoint may be achieved using the real time model. For example a segment may be designed based on the capacity information so that only segments i.e. the associated network elements that are available may be included to form a circuit.

In some implementations of the invention the capacity information may include capacity information for interconnect points described herein. Thus in these implementations capacity information may be available for network elements that couple the backbone network to one or more other networks. In this manner a real time model of capacity of networks may be generated.

In some implementations of the invention database may store the capacity information. In some implementations of the invention database may include capacity information for network elements associated with the private backbone network. In some implementations of the invention database may include capacity information associated with external network providers and or other network providers.

In some implementations of the invention database manager network management server may be communicatively coupled to database . In these implementations circuit design manager may communicate with database manager to retrieve the capacity information.

In some implementations of the invention the capacity information may be updated. Updates to the capacity information may include for example adding new network elements deleting existing network elements updating a status of network elements and or other updates associated with network elements. As would be appreciated the capacity information may be updated in substantially real time periodically at intervals by request and or at other times. For example when a circuit designer selects a network element for a segment during circuit design database may be updated to indicate use of the network element so that an inventory of what is available is maintained. In other words when a network element has been selected for a particular segment circuit an availability status of the network element may be updated to designate the network element is unavailable. The designations may include but not be limited to used not available and or other designation that indicates the selected network element is unavailable for use in another circuit.

Similarly when one or more network elements is no longer being used the capacity information may be updated to indicate availability of the one or more network elements. For example network management server may receive an indication that a segment and or one or more of its corresponding network elements is no longer being used. In this example database may be updated to designate that the segment and or associated network elements are now available. By updating the capacity information to include availability designations an updated model of network capacity may be achieved so that actual availability of the network elements may be ascertained.

In some implementations of the invention network management server may access the capacity information in order to filter network elements. In other words network management server may determine an inventory and or availability of network elements so that only inventoried network elements within the one or more network elements as opposed to network elements with made up names for example and or available network elements such as network elements that are online and or otherwise available for use may be selected when designing a particular circuit. In this manner when a circuit is being designed the capacity information may be used to guide which network elements may be included in or otherwise be used to form the circuit.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may receive a request associated with designing a circuit. For example in order to fulfill a customer request to connect one endpoint with another endpoint a circuit designer may wish to design a circuit that connects the endpoints. Accordingly the circuit designer may make the request. The request may be made through a GUI an API and or other interface.

In some implementations of the invention in response to the request circuit design manager may access capacity information associated with each of the network elements. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may access the capacity information by communicating with database manager . For example circuit design manager may query or otherwise interrogate database via database manager which may communicate with database to retrieve the capacity information. Database manager may provide the retrieved capacity information to circuit design manager .

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may determine an availability of each network element based on the capacity information. In other words because the capacity information may include whether or not a network element is available circuit design manager may determine whether a particular network element is available for use in a circuit.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may filter the network elements based on the determined availability of each of the network elements. In other words circuit design manager may allow only the available network elements to be selectable. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may communicate the filtered network elements for selection.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may filter the network elements by omitting the network elements that are unavailable from the network elements. In other words circuit design manager may communicate only network elements that are available while omitting network elements that are unavailable so that they may not be selected by the circuit designer. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may filter the plurality of network elements by providing indicia for the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements wherein the indicia indicates the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements are not selectable. In these implementations circuit design manager may communicate the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements and the indicia. For example when presented via a GUI the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements may be presented to the circuit designer with indicia such as being grayed out or other indicia that indicates the network elements are not selectable.

As would be appreciated circuit design manager may access the capacity information determine the availability and or filter the network elements based on an interaction with database . For example the interaction may include a database query that accesses the capacity information determines which network elements are available and filters network elements based on the capacity information stored by database .

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may communicate the filtered plurality of network elements for selection. For example the filtered plurality of network elements may be communicated to a circuit designer for selection by the circuit designer. In one implementation circuit design manager may communicate the retrieved information via a GUI presented to the circuit designer. The GUI may present the one or more the available network elements i.e. the filtered plurality of network elements for selection by the circuit designer.

In one implementation circuit design manager may receive an indication that at least one of the available network elements is selected by the circuit designer or is otherwise unavailable for use in a circuit such as when a network element is undergoing an outage or other downtime . Circuit design manager may communicate the indication to database manager . Database manager may store the indication in database . Database manager may designate the selected network element as unavailable and may store the unavailable designation in the database. As such for any subsequent requests to establish a network connection between endpoints and or to view available network elements the network element s marked as unavailable may not be presented to or otherwise may not be selectable by the circuit designer. In some implementations of the invention even though the network element s that are designated unavailable may be presented to the circuit designer they may be disabled e.g. grayed out to indicate that they are not available or otherwise not selectable by the circuit designer.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may receive an indication that a previously unavailable network element is currently available. For example a circuit designer may indicate that a circuit and its corresponding segments network elements are no longer in use. In another example a system administrator may indicate that a previously down network element has been repaired and is now available for use. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may cause the capacity information to be updated to indicate the availability.

In some implementations of the invention database level constraints may define the network elements e.g. ports channels equipment etc. . In other words database for example may include a listing of network elements such that only network elements having one or more records in database is included in the capacity model. In this manner an inventory of network elements may be maintained in the database so that network elements are catalogued. As such the user interface presented to the circuit designer for designing the circuit may include information that is filtered based on the database level constraints. For example a listing of the network elements may be presented as a drop down menu list with no free form text input for these fields. As would be appreciated the inventory of network elements may be updated to add remove and or update network elements.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may receive a request for availability reports for example parent circuit reports child circuit reports equipment reports and or other reports. Circuit design manager may generate these reports which may include information regarding the network elements that have been selected for the designed circuits.

In some implementations of the invention the one or more channels may be tracked via the capacity information described herein. In some implementations of the invention GUI may include at least two sections section and section . Section may include one or more fields from which a circuit designer may specify select for each segment. In some implementations of the invention segment type field may define the type of segment for example external segment associated with external carrier provider private also referred to as OnNet segment associated with the private backbone network. In some implementations of the invention the circuit designer may select the type of segment from the segment type field . Infrastructure field may define carrier backbone servers equipment being used.

In some implementations of the invention channel number field may provide a list of available channels that a circuit designer may select to design to the circuit. The list of available channels may change based on the segment type infrastructure selected. For example the list of channels may be different for an external segment i.e. network elements from one or more outside or third party vendors versus a private segment i.e. network elements from the private backbone network . In some implementations of the invention unavailable channels may not be presented to the circuit designer.

In some implementations of the invention different channels may have different speeds. A default channelization i.e. segmentation for each speed may be utilized for example an OC12 channel may be channelized into 12 STS1 channels or combinations of STS1 and OC3. In some implementations a designed circuit may utilize one channel. A different designed circuit may utilize different speeds associated with different channels. As such one or more circuits designed on the facility may not be required to have the same speed. In some implementations of the invention the capacity information may include the different speed for each channel thereby enhancing an ability to generate an appropriate circuit based on the customer request.

In some implementations of the invention the site A field and site Z field may define the first and second endpoints respectively between which the network connection circuit needs to be established for example based on the customer request . The site A field and site Z field may for example provide a list of names associated with a number of sites to choose from. Segment indicator field may define some capabilities of the segment. For example an OnNet segment may identify a segment built completely on the Core platform facilities requiring no additional vendor orders for that segment. In some implementations a carrier segment may indicate a segment routed entirely on an external vendor s facility i.e. external network carrier s provider s network which may be designed using functions described herein. In some implementations a hub segment may indicate a segment routed over a prepaid facility provided by an external vendor but utilizing only specific channels on the external vendor facility i.e. not the full capacity . Vendor field may define a list of vendors for example in the form of vendor names from which to choose. In some implementations of the invention when the segment type is external the vendor field may indicate a name of the vendor from which the external segment originates.

As illustrated in the segment indicator and vendor fields have been disabled because the segment type selected is OnNet or private . Once the circuit designer has made the appropriate selections for a segment via the one or more fields the add segment button may be executable by circuit designer.

Section may provide a summarized view for each segment. In response to the add segment button execution circuit design manager may summarize the selected properties associated with the segment based on the selections made via one or more fields in section and may add the segment in section . In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may provide or otherwise cause to be executed a query including one or more of the selected properties to database manager . Database manager may query the database to retrieve additional information associated with the selected segment for example channel termination point information for sites A Z where channel termination points represent the end points of a channel within the facility and or any other intermediate sites segment begin site information identifying the beginning site for a segment segment end site information identifying the ending site for a segment actions that may be performed e.g. attach to email upload download export delete etc. and or other information associated with the selected segment. In other words database may store this additional information associated with one or more segments that may be selected for circuit design. Database manager may provide the additional information to circuit design manager . Circuit design manager may gather the information associated with the selected properties in section with the additional information received from database manager to provide the summarized view for each segment.

As illustrated in section may provide among other information for each segment segment type information facility circuit identifier information carrier information e.g. external carrier vs. private backbone network carrier name etc. channel termination point CTP information segment begin site and end site information action information and or other information.

In some implementations of the invention once all the segments for a circuit have been selected the complete design button may be executed by circuit designer. Once the complete design button has been executed a circuit layout diagram may be generated. An exemplary circuit layout diagram is depicted in .

In operation a request associated with designing a circuit may be received by circuit design manager for example. In operation capacity information associated with each of a plurality of network elements may be accessed by circuit design manager for example. In some implementations circuit design manager may access capacity information in response to the customer request. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may access the capacity information by communicating with database manager . For example circuit design manager may query or otherwise interrogate database via database manager which may communicate with database to retrieve the capacity information. Database manager may provide the retrieved capacity information to circuit design manager .

In operation an availability of each network element based on the capacity information may be determined by circuit design manager for example. In other words because the capacity information may include whether or not a network element is available circuit design manager may determine whether a particular network element is available for use in a circuit.

In operation the plurality of network elements may be filtered based on the determined availability of each of the network elements by circuit design manager for example. In other words circuit design manager may allow only the available network elements to be selectable for inclusion in the circuit and may not allow unavailable network elements to be selectable. In operation the filtered network elements may be communicated for selection by circuit design manager for example.

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may filter the network elements by omitting the network elements that are unavailable from the network elements. In other words circuit design manager may communicate only network elements that are available while omitting network elements that are unavailable so that they may not be selected by the circuit designer. In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may filter the plurality of network elements by providing indicia for the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements wherein the indicia indicates the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements are not selectable. In these implementations circuit design manager may communicate the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements and the indicia. For example when presented via a GUI the unavailable ones of the plurality of network elements may be presented to the circuit designer with indicia such as being grayed out or other indicia that indicates the network elements are not selectable.

As would be appreciated circuit design manager may access the capacity information determine the availability and or filter the network elements based on an interaction with database . For example the interaction may include a database query that accesses the capacity information determines which network elements are available and filters network elements based on the capacity information stored by database .

In some implementations of the invention circuit design manager may communicate the filtered plurality of network elements for selection. For example the filtered plurality of network elements may be communicated to a circuit designer for selection by the circuit designer. In one implementation circuit design manager may communicate the retrieved information via a GUI presented to the circuit designer. The GUI may present the one or more the available network elements i.e. the filtered plurality of network elements for selection by the circuit designer.

In some implementations of the invention network elements may be associated with one another such that selection of one network element of a first segment will automatically e.g. by circuit design manager cause selection of a second segment. For example some customer trunks have been split into two separate facilities. Whenever one of those customer trunks is used in the design of a circuit the other customer trunk may also be required. As such when a channel from one of these customer trunks is added as a segment to a circuit a second segment that uses a channel from the other customer trunk may be automatically be added to the circuit design. In this manner when a first network element is associated with a second network element selection of the first network element causes automatic selection of the second network element and vice versa.

In some implementations of the invention a facility may be designed using Open Channelization where the designed circuit may itself identify the requirement for channelization. Open channelization as opposed to fixed channelization does not require predefinition of the channel structure of a facility. With open channelization channel speed may be determined and set at design time. This is unlike fixed channelization where the designer may select a predefined channel with an appropriate speed. For example if a designer is designing a DS3 circuit using fixed channelization the designer may select a predefined STS1 channel in an OCx facility. However with open channelization the channel structure of the OCx facility may not be predetermined and the designer may create an STS1 channel at design time thereby saving a design step.

Implementations of the invention may be made in hardware firmware software or various combinations thereof. The invention may also be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A computer readable storage medium may include various mechanisms for storing information in a form readable by a computing device. For example a tangible computer readable storage medium may include optical storage media flash memory devices and or other storage mediums. Further firmware software routines or instructions may be described in the above disclosure in terms of specific exemplary aspects and implementations of the invention and performing certain actions. However it will be apparent that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions may in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing firmware software routines or instructions.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

