---

title: IMD-selective design of HTS-based filters
abstract: Intermodulation distortion (IMD) is known to be an impediment to progress in superconductor-based filter technology. The present invention's methodology for reducing IMD can open doors to heretofore unseen practical applications involving high temperature superconductor (HTS) filters. Typical inventive practice includes (a) increasing the thickness d, and/or (b) changing the operation temperature T, of the filter's HTS film. The film's thickness d is increased in such a way as to decrease the IMD power Pin accordance with the material-independent proportionate relationship

∝1/.

The film's operation temperature T is bettered or optimized in accordance with the material-independent proportionate relationship

∝(λ())(())/(Δ()),

and further in accordance with three individual material-dependent relationships, namely, between operation temperature T and each of linear penetration depth λ, gap maximum Δ, and kernel K. Some inventive embodiments include oxygen overdoping of the film as an additional/alternative IMD-reductive measure.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412292&OS=08412292&RS=08412292
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08412292
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100716
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 240 786 filing date 27 Sep. 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 761 125 issue date 20 Jul. 2010 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Intermodulation Distortion Reduction Methodology for High Temperature Superconductor Microwave Filters joint inventors Yehoshua Dan Agassi and Daniel E. Oates.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to high temperature superconductors more particularly to the use thereof in filters that may be suitable for electronic applications such as those involving communications or radar.

At the front end of practically every antenna e.g. microwave or radio frequency receiver antenna is a filter that eliminates cuts off or excises all frequencies outside of a predetermined frequency window sometimes referred to as a bandpass or bypass band thereby preventing the totality of the environmental signals from overwhelming the device. The operational principle of a typical filter is similar to that of a typical resonator cavity which is designed to resonate at a predetermined frequency window sometimes referred to as the resonator s resonance frequency where transmission is at its maximum while at all other frequencies i.e. frequencies outside of the resonance frequency transmission is strongly suppressed.

A flat frequency independent resonance frequency window is typically obtained from the combined effects of a series of inductively coupled narrow copper strips which may be arranged in a variety of configurations. Each strip gives rise to a pole in the transfer function of the configuration hence the terms strip and pole have been used interchangeably in filter technology. The ensuing box like bandpass is roughly speaking the sum of the slightly shifted hump shaped e.g. Gaussian shaped Chebyshev shaped Lorentzian shaped etc. frequency windows that are each associated with a particular pole. A linear material is a material in which microwave transmission does not depend on the field intensity. For a filter made of a linear material as the number of poles increases the bandpass approaches the ideal box like shape. However an increase in the number of strips in combination with surface impedance nonlinearity the existence of which depends on the material in each strip represents the cause for the generation of intermodulation distortion IMD products. Surface impedence nonlinearity is a property of high temperature superconductor HTS materials.

The term intermodulation distortion IMD refers to the undesirable mixing of two signals whose mixing products lie within the bandpass. A case in point is the mixing of signals lying outside the nominal bandpass with signals lying within the bandpass thus producing added frequency components that contribute to distortion of the desired signals. IMD arises as a consequence of surface impedence nonlinearity and perhaps other sources.

The IMD power level is a key performance measure of a filter. Copper based filters are commonly used for antenna applications. In copper based filters where copper is highly linear increasing the number of poles in order to approach a box like frequency window constitutes a trade off between an increase in the physical size on the one hand and losses of the device on the other hand. It would be desirable to provide a filter having all three attributes viz. low IMD power level low loss and small physical size. The combination of these qualities in a filter could unleash new opportunities for various applications both military and civilian such as involving antennae arrays for radar applications and specialized e.g. compact and sensitive antennae aboard missiles and submarines. Generally speaking HTS based filters have two of these qualities viz. extremely low losses and compactness but are also characterized by surface impedence nonlinearity and hence by tendency toward high IMD power levels.

The high temperature superconductor HTS family of materials has seen commercial success in the area of microwave filters for wireless communication. Over fifteen hundred HTS microwave filter units have been deployed in wireless communication base stations see R. W. Simon R. B. Hammond S. J. Berkowitz and B. A. Willemsen 92 1585 2004 incorporated herein by reference. In such applications the copper poles are replaced with HTS poles. The commercial success of HTS microwave filters is mainly attributable to their practical and cost effective cooling requirements to T 77K the liquid Nitrogen temperature their relatively small size and the much lower losses of HTS in comparison to those of copper by two to three orders of magnitude at microwave frequencies . However because of the surface impedance nonlinearity that characterizes HTS progress in this area is limited to low power applications. See the following publications each of which is incorporated herein by reference J. H. Claasen J. C. Booth J. A. Beall L. R. Vale D. A. Rudman and R. H. Ono 12 714 1999 J C Booth L. R. Vale R. H. Ono and J. H. Claasen 12 711 1999 H. Claasen J. C. Booth J. A. Beall D. A. Rudman L. R. Vale and R. H. Ono 74 4023 1999 J. C. Booth J. A. Beall D. A. Rudman L. R. Vale and R. H. Ono 86 1020 1999 . IMD suppression is increasingly critical for operation in the increasingly crowded cellular phones communication spectrum. In addition HTS nonlinearity must be reduced to realize emit filter applications. HTS nonlinearity at microwave frequencies thus represents a bottleneck issue for future HTS filter applications.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a methodology for reducing the amount of intermodulation distortion in a high temperature superconductor microwave filter.

Notwithstanding the advantageous nature of HTS filters in terms of their exceedingly low losses and their compactness the intermodulation distortion in HTS filters is a major limiting factor in their usage for applications such as those involving emitantennae and high degree frequency discrimination antennae. The present invention serves to reduce the nonlinear surface impedance and hence the intermodulation distortion IMD of filters that are made of a high temperature superconductor HTS and that operate at microwave frequencies. Therefore inventive practice can enhance the performance of HTS based filters in receive antenna applications and can also extend the applicability of HTS based filters to transmit antenna applications where typically a higher power level is required. Due to their strongly reduced IMD power level the HTS filters that are designed or modified in accordance with the present invention are high performance HTS filters practicable in a sharply defined linear frequency range in association with either receive antennae or emit antennae.

The present invention identifies three critical design parameters for reducing the power level of intermodulation distortion IMD in HTS filters namely i thickness of the HTS film ii operation temperature of the HTS film and iii oxygen overdoping of the HTS film. According to the inventive methodology the edge integrity of the filter s poles strips can be disregarded especially when a pole strip has a high aspect ratio wherein aspect ratio is the ratio of strip width to strip thickness . Inventive practice of any one of the three above noted parameters or of any combination of two of these parameters or of the combination of all three of these parameters can attribute an HTS based filter with a significant decrease in IMD. For typical inventive embodiments the most influential parameter of the three is the HTS film thickness. The inventive increasing of the HTS film thickness in and of itself can yield significant lessening of IMD. The beneficial effects of a suitable increase in HTS film thickness can be enhanced through judicious selection s of the operation temperature and or the degree of oxygen overdoping of the HTS films. The combined effect of all three independent design parameters has the potential for reducing the IMD power level by several orders of magnitude. The inventive principles allow for a large leeway for performance optimization of an HTS filter. The present invention can be practiced not only in association with HTS microwave filters but also in association with various other kinds of electronic apparatus that include superconductor film and a dielectric substrate upon which the superconductor film is disposed.

A filter is but one of the various kinds of electronic apparatus with respect to which the present invention s methodology can be practiced. In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention a method for improving performance of electronic apparatus comprises decreasing e.g. significantly reducing the power of intermodulation distortion characterizing the electric apparatus. The electronic apparatus includes superconductor film. The present invention s decreasing of the intermodulation distortion power includes either or both of the following a increasing by a selected factor the thickness of the superconductor film b changing the operation temperature of the superconductor film. The present invention s increasing of the thickness d of the superconductor film is performed in order that the factor by which the intermodulation distortion power Pis decreased equals the selected factor by which said superconductor film thickness d is increased raised to an exponent in the range between one point five and six. According to many inventive embodiments the present invention s increasing of the thickness d of the superconductor film is performed in order that the factor by which the intermodulation distortion power Pis decreased equals the selected factor by which said superconductor film thickness d is increased raised to an exponent of four. Expressed another way the present invention s proportionalilty relating IMD to thickness is 1 . Let us assume for instance that a first superconductor film has a first superconductor film thickness. The present invention s increasing of the superconductor film thickness includes applying at least one additional layer of superconductor film to the first superconductor film where for instance each additional superconductor layer is associated with a relatively thin buffer layer that separates it from the preceding superconductor layer thereby producing a second superconductor film that includes the first superconductor film and that has a second superconductor film thickness that is greater than the first superconductor film thickness.

The present invention s changing of the operation temperature of the superconductor film is typically performed in order to decrease a quotient to which the intermodulation distortion power is proportional. According to the quotient the dividend is the product of the linear penetration depth T raised to the exponent of ten and the kernel K T defined hereinbelow raised to the exponent of two and the divisor is the gap maximum T raised to the exponent of six. The present invention s changing of the operation temperature is often practiced as an optimizing adjustment of the operation temperature setting an operation temperature that is optimal insofar as minimizing the quotient and hence minimizing the intermodulation distortion power. According to a typical inventive calculation of the optimal operation temperature T the optimal operation temperature T is defined as the temperature for which the present invention s following mathematical combination of three temperature dependent factors i.e. is minimized. This temperature optimization has basis in one non monotonic relationship viz. the increase or decrease in the kernel as a function of temperature and two monotonic relationships viz. the increase in linear penetration depth as a function of temperature and the decrease in gap maximum as a function of temperature . Each of the monotonic relationships is particular to the superconductor material and varies depending on the superconductor material. The non monototonic relationship depends to some extent on the superconductor material as it contains certain material dependent quantities. In contrast the afore described relationships involving the intermodulation distortion power namely the relationship of the intermodulation distortion power to the superconductor film thickness and the relationship of the intermodulation distortion power to the quotient are independent of the superconductor material and in fact are independent of each other. According to some inventive embodiments in addition to or in lieu of either or both of increasing the thickness of the superconductor film and changing the operation temperature oxygen overdoping of the superconductor film is performed with the result of decreasing e.g. significantly reducing the intermodulation distortion power.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Surface impedance nonlinearity has been observed in thin films of low temperature superconductors LTS such as Niobium Nitrate NbN as well as in thin films of high temperature superconductors HTS such as YBCO YBaCuO BSCCO BiSrCaCuO group and TBCCO TlBaCaCuO group . See the following publications each of which is incorporated herein by reference regarding surface impedance nonlinearity in thin films of LTS P. P. Nguyen D. E. Oates G. Dresselhaus M. S. Dresselhaus and A. C. Anderson Microwave Hysteretic Losses in YBaCuOand NbN Thin Films 51 6686 March 1995 Y. M. Habib C. J. Lehner D. E. Oates L. R. Vale R. H. Ono G. Dresselhaus and M. S. Dresselhaus Measurements and Modeling of the Microwave Impedance in High TGrain Boundary Josephson Junctions Fluxon generation and R F Josephson Vortex Dynamics 57 13833 June 1998 . See the following publications each of which is incorporated herein by reference regarding surface impedance nonlinearity in thin films of HTS 2 . J. H. Claasen J. C. Booth J. A. Beall L. R. Vale D. A. Rudman and R. H. Ono 12 714 1999 J C Booth L. R. Vale R. H. Ono and J. H. Claasen 12 711 1999 H. Claasen J. C. Booth J. A. Beall D. A. Rudman L. R. Vale and R. H. Ono 74 4023 1999 J. C. Booth J. A. Beall D. A. Rudman L. R. Vale and R. H. Ono 86 1020 1999 .

A consensus regarding the origin of surface impedance nonlinearity has emerged only recently. See the following publications each of which is incorporated herein by reference the aforementioned D. Agassi and D. E. Oates Nonlinear Meissner Effect in a High Temperature Superconductor 72 014538 26 Jul. 2005 D. Agassi and D. E. Oates Nonlinear Surface Reactance of a Superconductor Strip 16 905 October 2003 the aforementioned D. E. Oates S. H. Park D. Agassi and G. Koren Temperature Dependence of Intermodulation Distortion in YBCO Understanding Nonlinearity Vol. 15 No. 2 pp 3589 3595 June 2005 from the proceedings of the Applied Superconductivity Conference Jacksonville Fla. 3 8 Oct. 2004 D. E. Oates M. H. Hein P. J. Hirst R. G. Humphreys G. Koren and E. Polturak Nonlinear Microwave Surface Impedance of YBCO Films Latest Results and Present Understanding 372 376 462 August 2002 available online 9 Apr. 2002 T. Dahm and D. J. Scalapino 81 2002 1997 T. Dahm and D. J. Scalapino and B. A. Willemsen 12 339 1999 D. E. Oates S. H. Park D. Agassi and G. Koren Temperature Dependence of Intermodulation Distortion in YBCO 17 S290 S294 May 2004 D. E. Oates S. H. Park and G. Koren Observation of the Nonlinear Meissner Effect in YBCO Thin Films Evidence for a d Wave Order Parameter in the Bulk of the Cuprate Superconductors 93 197001 November 2004 .

Superconductivity is a manifestation of a highly correlated condensate state of matter. Recent data in high quality YBCO films provides clear evidence that the observed nonlinearity is intrinsic to the highly correlated condensate state that underlies superconductivity. This intrinsic nonlinearity proposition is consistent with recent developments in the field. Firstly empirical observations have been made as to thickness dependencies of IMD such as illustrated in . Secondly empirical observations have been made as to the distinct low temperature dependencies of the nonlinearities in LTS and HTS such as illustrated in . Thirdly as further illustrated in theoretical calculations have been made that fit the observed data demonstrating low temperature dependence of the nonlinearities in LTS and HTS. The present invention uniquely avails itself of these findings in providing a novel methodology involving up to three parameters that determine the IMD power level viz. i thickness of the strip film ii operating temperature in the context of the filter for the strip and iii the extent of oxygen overdoping of the strip.

The present invention s methodology is premised on an intrinsic or extrinsic mechanism for the observed intermodulation distortion i.e. on the notion that the observed intermodulation distortion is of intrinsic or extrinsic origin to the superconductor state of matter. The inventive analysis is a novel theoretical construct that features Expressions 1 through 3 set forth hereinbelow. Suggested by the inventive analysis is the dependence of the intermodulation distortion power level on the film thickness and the operation temperature. More specifically the inventive analysis suggests that the IMD power level decreases rapidly with the film thickness in accordance with d wherein d denotes the film thickness. The inventive analysis also suggests an approach to determining the optimal operation temperature wherein T denotes the operation temperature.

Reference is now made to which correlates the profile of microwave current density j y with the widthwise cross section sectioned at a location away from the longitudinal ends of HTS strip of a wide and long HTS strip having a high aspect ratio width w thickness d such proportions being typical of conventional filter poles. The microwave current density profile is strongly peaked at the edges i.e. in the two lateral domains and but is much lower and is constant in the middle i.e. in the medial domain . See U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10 609 866 filed 1 Jul. 2003 entitled Strips for Imparting Low Nonlinearity to High Temperature Superconductor Microwave Filters sole inventor Yehoshua Dan Agassi incorporated herein by reference. The microwave current density profile extends into the film over the London i.e. linear penetration depth length denoted by while the associated magnetic field wraps around the strip cross section. For a typical HTS strip the penetration depth length is two to three orders of magnitude smaller than the width w.

While the current distribution shown in suggests the importance of the strip edges in carrying electrical current the present invention s methodology considers the total electrical current I that is carried by an HTS film e.g. an HTS strip or an HTS stack of strips to be a determinative factor of its nonlinearity. A careful many body theoretical analysis conducted by the present inventors demonstrates that for high aspect ratio strips most of the current is carried in the broad medial domain of strip notwithstanding the existence of the current density peaks in the two lateral domains and such as illustrated in . The present invention s strategy is predicated in part on the notion of the importance as pertains to IMD of the total current I that is conducted by a strip such as depicted in or a stack such as depicted in . The significance of total current I is manifest in the present invention s novel mathematical relationships of proportionality and equality which are set forth hereinbelow as Expressions 1 2 and 3 .

The present invention s theoretical analysis identifies material based external and or geometric parameters that determine the nonlinearity and hence the IMD. Specifically addressing the low power regime pertinent to receive antenna applications for a d wave superconductor such as HTS the inventive analysis yields the following proportionality for the nonlinear penetration depth length 

The relevant symbols in Expressions 1 2 and 3 are the following where all quantities are in the centimeter gram second CGS system of metric units d is the thickness of the HTS film T is the temperature of operation of the HTS strip which includes the HTS film I is the total current being conducted by the HTS film is the nonlinear penetration depth I T is the nonlinear penetration depth at total current I and operation temperature T T is the linear London penetration depth length at operation temperature T T is the maximum of the gap at operation temperature T qis the charge of a single carrier i.e. an electron or hole 2 is a dimensionless geometrical factor See the aforementioned D. Agassi and D. E. Oates Nonlinear Meissner Effect in a High Temperature Superconductor 72 014538 26 Jul. 2005 is the Fermi energy k is the Fermi momentum in the crystal axis direction 1 kT where kis the Boltzman constant mis the effective mass in the ab crystal plane c is the speed of light h 2 where h is Planck s constant 2n 1 where n is any integer positive or negative These quantities have been called Matsubara frequencies Pis the power level of the intermodulation distortion IMD of the HTS filter. Of particular import is the relationship of proportionality between the lefthand and righthand sides of Expression 3 viz. .

In Expressions 1 2 and 3 film thickness d operation temperature T and total current I are external or geometric parameters. T the linear penetration depth length at operation temperature T is a material dependent parameter. T the gap s maximum at operation temperature T is also a material dependent parameter. The kernel K T contains three material dependent parameters viz. Fermi energy Fermi momentum k in the crystal axis direction effective mass m in the ab crystal plane. Expression 3 exhibits the intricate interplay of the individual external geometry parameters I d T together with the individual material dependent parameters T and T in determining the IMD power level P. The parameters T and T are determined by the material of choice which in inventive practice can be any high temperature superconductor material. The material of choice is YBCO in accordance with many embodiments of the present invention. The total current I is application dependent.

Therefore once the inventive practitioner has selected the material usually YBCO for the HTS film in the context of a given HTS filter the remaining control parameters to optimize the IMD power level e.g minimize IMD power or maximum reduction in IMD power are the superconductor film thickness d and the operation temperature T of the superconductor film which are related to IMD power level Pas set forth hereinabove in the present invention s Expression 3 . The film thickness d and the operation temperature T are the two entirely independent IMD power reduction control factors in Expression 3 . A practical significance of this complete independence of film thickness d and operation temperature T is that the inventive methodology can be applied to any existing or conceptual HTS filter for which a certain HTS material composition of the film is established or assumed so as to modify or specify these two IMD power affecting independent parameters in accordance with the present invention s Expression 3 . As elaborated upon hereinbelow a third IMD power affecting independent parameter consists in oxygen overdoping of the HTS film.

The first independent IMD power reduction control factor in Expression 3 is the increase in thickness d of the HTS film. As conveyed by Expression 3 the IMD power Pscales with film thickness d in accordance with dexponential law. The present invention s theoretical proposition that IMD power Pchanges e.g. is reduced with film thickness d in accordance with a dscaling has been verified experimentally by the present inventors. The present invention s dscaling provides impetus for effecting a film configuration of tightly stacked strips either with or without one or more buffer layers such as depicted in and wherein the stack of strips acts as one thick film strip characterized by a film thickness d. In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention in which an increase is effected in film thickness d the increase in film thickness d is uniformly effected over the entire expanse of the superconductor film. The inventively amplified version of the superconductor film thus describes the same kind of three dimensional shape as does the original version of the superconductor film only thicker that is both the original film version and the amplified film version describe the same shape in two dimensions i.e. the same planar perimeter but the amplified film version is greater than the original film version in the third i.e. thickness wise dimension. For instance according to conventional practice superconductor film is frequently implemented in the form of a strip that describes a rectangular parallelepiped or rectangular prism shape. An inventively thickened version of the strip will describe the same rectangular shape described by each of the two opposite plan form film surfaces but will be thicker between these two surfaces. In other words the inventively thickened film will have the same rectangular perimeter but will not be as flat thin as the original film. In addition the plural superconductor film layers of the inventively amplified superconductor film are adjacently and closely arranged so that every pair of adjacent layers is contiguous to or in contact with each other.

Tripling the film thickness d i.e. increasing the film thickness d by a factor of three for instance an objective within reach of current film growth techniques is therefore predicted by Expression 3 to result in a reduction in IMD power Pby a factor of eighty one independent of the operation temperature T otherwise expressed the reduced intermodulation distortion power is 1 81 of the non reduced intermodulation distortion power. YBCO based filter films are typically grown at an arbitrary film thickness around d 350 nm. Tripling of a typical YBCO based film would therefore result approximately in a film thickness d 1 050 nm. As other examples doubling the film thickness d i.e. increasing the film thickness d by a factor of two results in a reduction in the IMD power Pby a factor of sixteen otherwise expressed the reduced intermodulation distortion power is 1 16 of the non reduced intermodulation distortion power. Quadrupling the film thickness d i.e. increasing the film thickness d by a factor of four results in a reduction in the IMD power Pby a factor of two hundred fifty six otherwise expressed the reduced intermodulation distortion power is 1 256 of the non reduced intermodulation distortion power. Increasing the film thickness d by fifty percent i.e. increasing the film thickness d by a factor of 1.5 results in a reduction in the IMD power Pby a factor of approximately five otherwise expressed the reduced intermodulation distortion power is about of the non reduced intermodulation distortion power.

Expression 3 thus predicts a certain amount of decrease in the IMD power Pin accordance with a certain amount of increase in film thickness d. Expression 3 also predicts conversely a certain amount of increase in the IMD power Pin accordance with a certain amount of decrease in film thickness d. For instance halving the film thickness d i.e. increasing the film thickness d by a factor of 0.5 or in other words decreasing the film thickness d by a factor of two results in an increase in the IMD power Pby a factor of sixteen. Expression 3 can thus be used to predict any amount of change in the IMD power Pin accordance with any amount of change in film thickness d. Any change in the film thickness d results in a change in the IMD power Pthat is independent of the operation temperature T. Therefore according to frequent inventive practice the inventive practitioner increases by a selected factor the thickness of the superconductor film thereby decreasing by a selected factor the intermodulation distortion power that characterizes the electric apparatus. The factor by which the intermodulation distortion power is decreased equals the factor by which the superconductor film thickness is increased raised to an exponent of four. Mathematically speaking the factor by which the intermodulation distortion power is decreased is the quantity by which the intermodulation distortion power is divided so as to yield the decreased intermodulation distortion power the factor by which the superconductor film thickness is increased is the quantity by which the superconductor film thickness is multiplied so as to yield the increased superconductor film thickness.

The present invention s material independent proportionate relationship 1 defined by Expression 3 is believed by the present inventors to be accurate for many but not all applications. The exponent to which superconductor film thickness d is raised in the proportionate relationship with IMD power Pmay vary in accordance with any one or combination of factors such as the amount of power involved in the application e.g. higher power applications versus lower power applications the amount of impurities in the superconductor film the amount of oxygen overdoping applied to the superconductor film etc. In order to cover the vast majority of applications involving utililization of superconductor film the present invention provides for a range of 1.5 to 6 for the exponent to which film thickness d is raised in the proportionate relationship with IMD power P. In other words the factor by which the intermodulation distortion power Pis decreased equals the factor by which the superconductor film thickness d is increased raised to an exponent in the range between one and one half 1.5 and six 6 . Otherwise expressed 1 where 1.5 x 6.

The symbol d as used herein represents the overall thickness of the HTS strip if there is only one strip such as depicted in or strips if there is a stack of two or more strips such strips and depicted in . A stack of strips can be embodied either in the presence of at least one buffer layer or in the absence of any buffer layer . Generally if one or more buffer layers are present each pair of adjacent strips has a buffer layer situated therebetween. In the case of a single strip thickness d represents the actual thickness of that strip measured from the top surface to the bottom surface of that strip such as shown in . In the case of a stack of plural strips thickness d represents the effective thickness of all of the plural strips in the stack measured between the extreme end surfaces in the stack for instance measured from the top strip s top surface to the bottom strip s bottom surface such as shown in . This definition of thickness d of a stack is the same regardless of whether all of the strips are stacked next to one another i.e. without any buffer layer or whether one or more pairs of adjacent strips are separated by a buffer layer . Stack which includes tightly stacked strips and is considered by the present invention to describe a single overall strip characterized by an overall thickness d that extends from one extreme strip surface to the opposite extreme strip surface.

The single strip depicted in and the tightly stacked strips depicted in represent two alternative configurational modes either of which lends itself to effectuation of IMD reduction via thickness scaling in accordance with the present invention. For purposes of inventive practice the stack of strips shown in acts in effect as one thick strip. The magnetic field in the multi strip configuration of will tend not to leak in between the stacked strips due to the unfavorableness of the energy expense that will be associated with the required bending of the magnetic field lines. Regardless of whether the subject HTS film is constituted as a single strip such as shown in or a stack of plural strips such as shown in the present invention can be practiced efficaciously in particular as long as the aspect ratio w d of the HTS film is 1 the substantial IMD reduction associated with increased film thickness implied by the present invention s Expression 3 is viable.

The second independent IMD power reduction control factor in Expression 3 is the choice of an optimal operation temperature T for the HTS filter of interest. T represents the operation temperature of the superconductor film itself which typically will be very close to but not necessarily equal to the operation temperature of the electronic apparatus that includes the superconductor film. The three temperature dependent factors in Expression 3 namely K T T T have qualitatively different temperature dependencies. In Expression 3 the following temperature relationships obtain. Factor K T is non monotonic whereas the factors T and T are monotonic. With decreasing temperature T the factor K T first decreases followed by a sharp upturn at low temperatures T. The factor T decreases with decreasing temperature T. The factor T increases with decreasing temperature T. It follows that there is an optimal temperature T for which the mathematical combination of all three temperature dependent factors in Expression 3 viz. is at a minimum. In the case of YBCO this optimal operation temperature T is in the approximate range T 30 50K a temperature range that is comfortably within the reach of commercially available cryocoolers. The present invention s judicious selection of the operation temperature T easily calculated from the present invention s Expression 3 in and of itself represents a significant reductive dynamic with respect to the IMD power P.

The third independent IMD power reduction control factor in accordance with the present invention is oxygen overdoping of the HTS film. The inventors have observed that in YBCO films oxygen overdoping has the effect of reducing IMD power level. illustrates the significant effect of oxygen overdoping for YBCO films. See the aforementioned D. E. Oates S. H. Park M. A. Hein J. P. Hirst and R. G. Humphreys Intermodulation Distortion and Third Harmonic Generation in YBCO Films of Varying Oxygen Content 13 311 June 2003 . While such overdoping is known to reduce the critical temperature the critical temperature Tis still very high T 80 90K in comparison to the optimal operation temperature prescribed by the present invention. The independent IMD reduction factors in Expression 3 can thus be combined with the effect of HTS oxygen overdoping.

To recapitulate where the total current level I the linear penetration depth T and the gap T are each a given for the material of choice e.g. YBCO there are three control parameters that can be optimized toward a maximum IMD power level reduction. The two control parameters pursuant to Expression 3 are the operation temperature T and the film thickness d the third control parameter is oxygen overdoping. With reference to the operation temperature T of an HTS filter device which includes a dielectric substrate and situated thereon HTS film such as a strip or a stack can be optimized by setting the temperature T of the cooling source e.g. cryocooler in accordance with a temperature T optimization calculation pursuant to Expression 3 . Additionally manifest in Expression 3 is the favorable consequence in terms of reducing IMD power level of thickening increasing the thickness of the HTS film. As illustrated in the present invention s three main IMD power reduction steps viz increasing the film thickness e.g. the thickness of a strip or the effective thickness of a stack of strips choosing an optimal operating temperature and oxygen overdoping the film are independent of each other and can be brought to bear singly or in any combination. Collectively these three independent IMD power reduction factors give wide latitude for designing high IMD suppression HTS filters. The actual amount of IMD power reduction in a particular case depends on the particular choice of parameters. Inventive practice has the potential of reaching three or more orders of magnitude reduction of IMD power reduction in an HTS filter of interest.

Of particular note are recently developed HTS film growth techniques for growing multilayer configurations of HTS film. See e.g. S. R. Foltyn P. N. Arendt Q. X. Jia H. Wang J. L. MacManus Driscoll S. Kreiskott R. F. DePaula L. Stan J. R. Groves and P. C. Dowden Strongly Coupled Critical Current Density Values Achieved in YBaCuO Coated Conductors with Near Single Crystal Texture Vol. 82 No. 25 pages 4519 4521 23 Jun. 2003 incorporated herein by reference Q. X. Jia S. R. Foltyn P. N. Arendt and J. R. Smith High Temperature Superconducting Thick Films with Enhanced Supercurrent Carrying Capability Vol. 80 No. 9 pages 1601 1603 4 Mar. 2002 incorporated herein by reference. Foltyn et al. and Jia et al. teach a method of making a multilayer configuration that includes superconductor layers and relatively thin buffer layers that separate the superconductor layers. See also the following United States patent documents each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference Jia et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 989 B2 issued 7 May 2002 Jia et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2001 0056041 A1 published 27 Dec. 2001.

Provided in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention is a computer program product comprising a computer useable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon. The inventive computer program product is capable of residing in the memory of a computer such as computer shown in . According to typical inventive practice of a computer program product the computer program logic includes means for enabling access to various information related to the HTS film e.g. HTS strip or HTS stack and to the HTS filter e.g. HTS filter device that includes the HTS film. Depending upon the inventive computer program product embodiment the accessible information includes any or all of the following the material composition of the film the thickness of the film the total amount of electrical current being conducted by the HTS film during operation of the HTS filter the temperature to which the HTS film is being cooled during operation of the HTS filter wherein the operation temperature T of the HTS film is established or determined by a cooling source such as cryocooler that is associated with the HTS filter the linear penetration depth of the HTS film during operation of the HTS filter the gap maximum of the HTS film during operation of the HTS filter a relationship between the linear penetration depth of the HTS film and the temperature to which the HTS film is being cooled during operation of the HTS filter a relationship between the gap maximum of the HTS film and the temperature to which the HTS film is being cooled during operation of the HTS filter. Typically the inventive computer program product further includes means for making at least one determination based on Expression 3 in furtherance of reducing the intermodulation power of the HTS filter. For instance an inventive computer program product can determine the optimum value of the operation temperature T wherein this optimum value is defined as the value of the operation temperature T that minimizes the term T K T T in Expression 3 .

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

