---

title: Detection of concealed object by standing waves
abstract: A process is provided to detect an object within a defined region using standing longitudinal cavity mode waves. The process includes disposing first and second conductive lines substantially parallel to the axis, transmitting an electromagnetic signal through the first line at a set frequency, returning the transmitted signal through the second line, measuring power from a reflected signal through the first line, adjusting the set frequency based on the measured power; extracting an appropriate parameter from the reflected signal to obtain a reflected characteristic, comparing the reflected characteristic to an established characteristic that lacks the object to obtain a characteristic differential, and analyzing the characteristic differential to obtain a position of the object along the length. The first and second conductive lines have specified length and width that bound a defined region. The analyzing can be performed by Fourier transform across wave modes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08174430&OS=08174430&RS=08174430
owner: The United States of America, as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08174430
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100827
---
The invention is a Division claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 890 098 filed Jul. 13 2007 and issued Sep. 28 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 804 441.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to methods and systems that use standing waves to detect a buried or submerged object in an optically opaque medium. In particular the invention employs electromagnetic or sonic waves and analyzes their standing wave patterns to identify the presence and location of an otherwise hidden object having material characteristics that differ from the medium into which the object is embedded.

Military personnel may be assigned to patrol regions where hostile combatants operate. Concealed ordnance e.g. landmine improvised explosive device IED present a severe hazard of injury and or death in such reconnaissance roles. The difficulty in identifying locating and neutralizing such objects from a safe distance hampers efforts to pacify these territories by elevating risk to travelers especially those on patrol well above acceptable levels.

Conventional techniques to detect unauthorized intrusion yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a mechanism to detect such target objects with greater safety distance margins than conventionally available.

Various exemplary embodiments provide electromagnetic tomography implemented by spectral analysis in an excited Fabry Perot cavity to detect and locate enemy agents crossing security perimeters or buried enemy ordnance such as improvised explosive devices IEDs within localized volumes such as the soil lying underneath roadways upon which Coalition military vehicles must travel on a regular basis. Variant embodiments employ radio frequency electromagnetic waves or sonic waves depending on application. Microwaves represent an exemplary portion of the electromagnetic spectrum in conjunction with microwave frequency computer aided tomography MCAT implemented by spectral analysis.

Various exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems to detect an object within a defined region using standing longitudinal cavity mode waves. The process includes disposing first and second conductive lines substantially parallel to the axis transmitting an electromagnetic signal through the first line at a set frequency returning the transmitted signal through the second line measuring power from a reflected signal through the first line adjusting the set frequency based on the measured power extracting an appropriate parameter from the reflected signal to obtain a reflected characteristic comparing the reflected characteristic to an established characteristic that lacks the object to obtain a characteristic differential and analyzing the characteristic differential to obtain a position of the object along the length. The first and second conductive lines have specified length and width that bound a defined region. The analyzing can be performed by Fourier transform across wave modes.

The two lines constitute a parallel conductor radio frequency transmission line stub. The alternative embodiments further includes transmitting a swept radio frequency signal along the transmission line measuring the frequency amplitude and width of the resonant mode peaks comparing the frequencies amplitudes and widths to those previously obtained without target objects in the vicinity of the transmission line and Fourier transforming the difference thereby computed.

These procedures may include recording the received signal by suitable instruments to obtain a received frequency spectrum comparing the received frequency spectrum to an established frequency spectrum without the object and Fourier transforming the difference to compute an intelligence function containing the target location.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Radar employs electromagnetic radiation to provide azimuth elevation and range of an object. A transmitter projects radiation in the microwave or radio spectrum. An object within line of sight of the transmitter reflects a portion of the radiated energy which proceeds as a traveling electromagnetic wave back to a receiver whereupon the radar system analyzes the reflected signal to obtain the desired information. However signal attenuation of short radiation wavelengths at high frequencies limit signal propagation and detection distances. For low frequencies the object might escape detection if smaller than the long radiation wavelengths having less attenuation.

The object possesses material properties that differ from the concealing medium. These properties influence real and or imaginary portions of the refraction index at microwave frequencies thereby indicating the object s presence. A defined area of the medium may be interrogated with standing waves that encompass a suitable range of wavelengths. The standing wave patterns contain integer numbers of nodes and antinodes each of which is located at a known position along the cavity length. The object betrays its presence by selective absorption or scatter of the energy rather than by reflection. The changes in energy frequency and quality associated with standing wave patterns from an empty medium depend on the object s location.

The standing waves represent wavelengths related to the length of the area being searched for the object s presence and location. The search area may be designated as a cavity having characteristic length L for the distance between boundaries against which the waves reflect such as a Fabry Perot cavity. The wavelength v f where f is frequency and v is the wave velocity for each longitudinal mode in the cavity has a quantized value that may be expressed as 2L n where n is a positive integer 1 2 . . . N and L is the cavity length. For an electromagnetic wave this velocity corresponds to nearly the speed of light. For an acoustic wave this velocity corresponds to the longitudinal speed of sound or additionally the transverse speed of sound for a solid medium.

For the twin lead application the waves may be reflected at the boundaries of the search area to produce a node at the shorted end of the transmission line an antinode at the open end of the line and some integer number of nodes and antinodes along the length of the line the exact numbers being proportional to the frequencies of each standing wave mode. For a shorted far end of the transmission line closed circuit the transmission line length L must be an odd number multiple of a quarter wavelength for each mode. This can be expressed as L 2n 1 4 where n is a non negative integer 0 1 2 . . . N. The object can perturb the standing wave either by shifting the frequency of the mode peaks or by changing the amplitude of the power at the mode peaks.

Modern radar typically depends upon the reflection of very short microwave frequency pulses by a target of interest. Unfortunately the presence of microwave signals is recognized by many adversaries some of whom have deployed buried or camouflaged ordnance with very small radar scattering cross sections and used it successfully against US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. The problem of locating identifying and neutralizing enemy agents and ordnance particularly buried IEDs at a distance has been a vexing challenge for US military analysts and a major personal risk for Coalition warfighters.

Reflector Embodiment Fortunately recent developments in optoelectronic component technology may be applied fruitfully to address problems such as the detection of buried IEDs in arid Middle Eastern soil and the location of enemy agents crossing long security perimeters. An enemy agent or IED inherently contains substances that exhibit real and or imaginary components of the index of refraction at audio ultrasonic radio or microwave frequencies that do not precisely match those of the surrounding air in which an agent may traverse or else the soil within which an IED may be buried.

If such a target operative or ordnance can be interrogated with a set of standing radio waves that encompass a suitable range of wavelengths the presence of the target causes absorption or scattering whose magnitude is dependent upon the precise location of the target with respect to the nodes and antinodes of each of the standing wave mode patterns. Thus the introduction of a target into a volume that has been illuminated with a set of standing waves having an initially uniform distribution of power perturbs this distribution of power among the various wave modes. In addition the frequencies and or the quality of the standing wave modes may be perturbed by the presence of the target object.

This perturbation can be accurately measured with modern spectral analysis instrumentation and the location of the target can then be extracted from this perturbation by an appropriate type of mathematical analysis. Furthermore this method of detection is most sensitive to objects that are comparable to or smaller than the smallest wavelength used to interrogate them and is therefore not subject to the usual diffraction limit that affects conventional imaging technologies.

The detection algorithm to be described subsequently relies upon the differential absorption or scattering of a set of standing wave mode patterns and not upon the reflection of a narrow band of wavelengths as in traditional radar or imaging technology. This location technique can also circumvent countermeasures to conceal hostile operatives or ordnance by using stealth technologies that absorb electromagnetic radiation in the radar frequency bands. The standing wave pattern can be created by establishing a Fabry Perot cavity in one or more physical dimensions and exciting a set of standing wave modes within this cavity by use of a low power microwave transmitter. The cavity is formed by placing two highly reflecting mirror surfaces at the ends of the desired region to be protected and orienting them so that they are parallel.

This ensures that waves with propagation directions parallel to the cavity axis may travel back and forth within the cavity and experience multiple reflections at the two mirror ends. In order to ensure that a large set of modes is excited within the cavity the transmitter sweeps often over a sufficiently wide bandwidth to encompass the desired range of wavelengths. For the various embodiments presented herein the instant disclosure proposes the exploration of a new technology that exploits the differential absorption and or scattering of a set of standing waves to detect and locate accurately a concealed target and presents results from two preliminary trials of the technology.

Diagram shows a block diagram of the detection system. A generator provides an electromagnetic wave signal to a transmitter which projects the signal through a transmit antennas to be intercepted by a receive antenna with both antennas e.g. transducers or horns being embedded within a cavity . The signal propagates within the cavity through a medium e.g. air soil water along a longitudinal axis . The cavity is bounded at each end by corresponding reflectors e.g. microwave mirrors . Frequencies of the signal received by the receive horn are evaluated by a radio frequency RF signal analyzer and further processed by a computer which may illustrate the resulting modes on a display monitor . By monitoring the frequency modes a change therein indicates the presence of a target shown as a buried IED.

The reflectors are oriented parallel to each other being disposed at the longitudinal ends of the cavity which represents a region to be monitored. The longitudinal cavity axis is formed by a line perpendicular to the reflectors that extends the distance length of the cavity . These mirrors may be flat or parabolically curved to focus the reflected waves.

The transmitter may transmit microwaves at low power and these microwaves are frequency swept by modulation generator for sending to the transmit antenna . This transmit antenna would generally be implemented as an electromagnetic horn possibly with some gain over an isotropic radiator to confine most of the radiation to the direction of the cavity axis .

The power generated by the frequency swept transmitter is injected through the transducer and into the cavity as electromagnetic radiation. This power may be attenuated because some waves are emitted in directions that are not parallel to the cavity axis . That fraction of the power in waves that run parallel to the cavity axis travel back and forth between the two reflectors and resonate within the cavity at all discrete frequencies for which the cavity length L is an exact integer multiple of a half wavelength.

These standing waves interact with the target which will selectively absorb or scatter some of the cavity modes. As a result the overall shape of the spectrum is perturbed by the presence of the target . This perturbed spectrum can be detected by receive antenna and analyzed by the spectrum analyzer which sends its information to the computer through an appropriate interface e.g. GPIB USB and processed by a suitable program. The computer analyzes the spectral shape using an algorithm presented further herein. As a result of this analysis the computer extracts from the spectral shape an intelligence function that is displayed on the monitor . The horizontal axis of this plot represents distance and the vertical axis represents deviation from average cavity materials properties. The target is thus represented by a peak in the monitor that resembles the blip on a traditional radar range scan.

Process illustrates a flowchart that describes the analysis and procedure for receiving and processing the standing wave signals to detect an intrusive object within a defined region. An iterative step provides data resulting from the measurement of the power frequencies and or quality denoted as Q for each of a suitably large number of longitudinal cavity modes. Previously acquired data under conditions absent any target are acquired and stored at step . These results from step are compared at step with the corresponding data from step .

The algebraic difference between these two data sets computed at step are then subjected to the Discrete Fourier Transform at step . The magnitude of the output data set from step is computed in step and either displayed for observation by a human operator and or analyzed by the software for automatic detection of target peaks. After a suitable period of time the process is repeated and the program flow returns to step to begin the analysis of the next set of data acquired by the receiver.

Algorithm The mathematical details of a microwave frequency computer aided tomography MCAT Algorithm used to process the received spectrum and extract therefrom the intelligence function that bears information on the location of targets of interest. This detection system relies upon the creation of a Fabry Perot cavity that bounds the cavity that defines the spatial region. This cavity consists of two parallel mirrors separated by a longitudinal distance L.

One of the well known properties of such cavities is that standing waves can resonate in the region between the mirrors only at those discrete frequencies for which the cavity length L is an integral multiple of a half wavelength 

Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the frequency separation f between adjacent longitudinal modes is given by the expression 

This Fabry Perot cavity can be excited by a low GHz giga Hertz frequency microwave transmitter via the transmit horn or other suitable antenna to carry the transmitter s signal in the cavity . The transmit antenna may preferably be disposed in close proximity to one of the two parallel reflectors both disposed within the soil of the region comprising the cavity . For the transmitter being frequency swept by the generator over a bandwidth of 130 MHz in a low GHz band the resulting band width may be sufficient to encompass about 17 300 longitudinal modes each distinguished by the 7.5 kHz modal separation interval.

Assuming that signal losses associated with absorption in the medium e.g. soil are not excessive these longitudinal modes lying within the frequency swept bandwidth of the transmitter may resonate within the cavity . These cavity modes may be detected by the receive antenna placed in the soil near the other reflector and connected to the RF spectrum analyzer .

Quantifying the energy present in each of these longitudinal modes can be achieved by a set of traditional first order rate equations. These are similar to the rate equations for a semiconductor laser but modified slightly to make them applicable to the geometry in . For Sbeing the number of photons per cubic meter associated with the mlongitudinal mode i.e. amplitude is the loss associated with the same mode Pbeing the RF power output of the microwave transmitter and Cbeing the probability per unit time of exciting a photon in the mlongitudinal mode the rate of change in photon density for the mmode may be written as follows 

The spectrum analyzer may be used to measure the relative amplitude Sof each longitudinal mode. To model signal loss as a function of wavelength an analogy to first order laser gain may be applied. This first order laser gain is modulated by the first moment of the spatial gain with respect to the square of the longitudinal mode electric field distributions. See e.g. Yamada M. and Suematsu Y. Analysis of Gain Suppression in Undoped Semiconductor Lasers 52 2653 2664 1981 .

This insight was applied for various exemplary embodiments in creating the software for the laser Defect Distribution Scan Algorithm. See e.g. DeChiaro L. Robinet M. and Devoldere P. Effects of Drive Current Upon Defect Distribution Scan Features in Multi longitudinal Mode Semiconductor Lasers 11 2057 2065 1993 . The same principle may be extended to the presence of a target of interest such as a concealed enemy agent or a buried IED. Due to the various internal constituents the presence of the target may create a sharply localized perturbation in the real and or the imaginary components of the index of refraction of the surrounding medium.

The physical size of the target may be sufficiently small so as to exhibit a negligible scattering cross section at low microwave frequencies. Nonetheless its presence yields a frequency selective attenuation of some of the longitudinal modes depending upon its exact longitudinal coordinate relative to the nodes and antinodes of the modal electric field distributions. Thus the loss for the mlongitudinal mode may be modeled as follows 

For the spectrum analyzer able to measure values of photon density Sfor many excited cavity modes eqns. 3 and 4 may be solved by a simple Fourier Transform method to obtain the intelligence function G z . In steady state all the time derivatives in the system for eqn. 3 vanish and eqn. 3 may then be solved for the steady state spectrum to obtain 

Next the cavity losses may be postulated as not being exceedingly large. For such a condition the modal electric field distribution can be approximated as follows 

Substituting eqn. 6 in the integral in the denominator of eqn. 5 and recalling the trigonometric identity sin 1 cos2 2 eqn. 5 reduces to 

Because L and are both constants the second term in the denominator of eqn. 7 may be combined into the term with no loss of generality. Eqn. 7 can be solved to yield and the intelligence function G z retrieved by a Fourier Transform as follows 

In order to implement eqn. 8 in software the parameters remain defined as Sis the discrete spectrum measured by the analyzer Pis the average RF power supplied by the transmitter Cis the probability per unit time of photon emission into the mlongitudinal mode n is the average index of refraction of the cavity medium c is the speed of light in vacuo and is the background loss of the cavity medium.

The Cprobabilities are given by the shape of the radiated emission spectrum of the continuous wave CW microwave transmitter and antenna combination. For a reasonably flat frequency response of this combination the values of Cshould be constant over a bandwidth sufficiently large to encompass about 16 384 longitudinal modes.

The choice of a number of modes that is an integral power of two is made in order to permit the use of the fastest possible software implementation of the Cooley Tukey Algorithm to perform the Fourier transformation and retrieve the intelligence function G z in minimal time. See e.g. Cooley J. W. and Tukey J. W. An Algorithm for the Machine Calculation of Complex Fourier Series 19 297 301 1965 .

In practice the negative term on the right hand side of eqn. 8 should appear as a direct current DC level upon which the wavelength dependent perturbations associated with the targets ride. This term can therefore be suppressed before the Fourier transform is done. Such practices may enhance the overall numerical sensitivity of the software.

Typically a function is solved by transform of its inverse as provided in eqn. 8 . However for results obtained for this intelligence function application solving by FFT of the function may improve sensitivity for a small target. Thus the intelligence function G z may be alternatively expressed as a Fourier transform of the difference between the photon density Sfor each mode m and a reference value Sabsent any target. This can be expressed as FFT . 9 

Acoustic Tests The MCAT Algorithm may be applied to a wide variety of wave phenomena. A preliminary feasibility test of the concept was therefore accomplished with a minimal investment by running a trial using ultrasonic acoustic water waves in a volume sufficiently small for demonstration purposes. The protected region and the cavity mirrors were both realized by an aquarium i.e. fish tank filled with tap water. The glass walls of the tank are very parallel and reflect sound waves.

Because the short dimension of the tank measured about 0.15 m meter and the speed of sound in fresh water is taken to be 1435 m sec meters per second the modal separation may be computed from eqn. 2 to be 4.78 kHz. Thus the demonstration used ultrasonic frequency equipment. A low power function generator such as the Hewlett Packard HP 8111A was chosen for the transmitter and an ICOM PCR1500 radio communications receiver was used as the spectrum analyzer . The PCR1500 is a computer controlled receiver whose supplied software includes a spectrum analyzer mode and a data recorder function that uses the hard drive of the controlling computer to store the acquired spectra . Low cost piezoelectric transducers were used as the transmit and receive antennas .

The signal generator was configured to generate square waves and the frequency was adjusted to a value close to 4.78 kHz so that the harmonics would fall at the cavity mode frequencies. The PCR1500 was set to scan the frequency range from 50 kHz to 250 kHz and record the spectra measured with and without a target in the cavity .

An example peak such as at 170 kHz illustrates several additional details. Its peak strength of 190 au may be used to determine a frequency resolution i.e. peak width denoted as f that represents the frequency difference of the peak at its half peak strength . The frequency difference between the peak and its nearest spectral neighbor represents free spectral range FSR quantified as v 4d. The FSR may be represented by a frequency difference between modal peaks. For electromagnetic waves velocity v is analogous to the speed of light c. The cavity may be characterized by quality denoted as Q f f and finesse quantified as FSR f.

Compared with the empty cavity spectrum the spectrum measured with the target in place shows a perturbed shape in which every other mode is enhanced while the intervening modes are attenuated. The spectral deviation caused by the presence of the target is thus described as a strong weak strong weak pattern that is characteristic of a cavity with a perturbation denoting the target located at the cavity s mid position. The period of the spectral deviation is the minimum meaningful value of two mode spacings.

Electromagnetic Tests The observation of acceptable results from the acoustic test demonstrated the feasibility of the tomography concept. Subsequent trial would involve electromagnetic waves sent through air over a path length that is measured in meters rather than centimeters. Such tests were performed using the large anechoic chamber at Dahlgren with a cavity length of 10 m meters . An Agilent E8251A signal generator was used as the transmitter.

The best results for these tests were obtained over the 4 GHz to 5 GHz frequency range using microwave horns as the transmitting and receiving antennas . The transmitter was set to cover the frequency band in steps of 1 MHz with a dwell time of 1 s second at each frequency. The reflectors were two rectangular pieces of sheet aluminum measuring about 0.6 m by 1.0 m to act as microwave mirrors. Power levels were about 11 dBm at the transmitter output connector.

A 15 m length of coaxial cable was used between the transmitter output and the transmit antenna. In the 4 GHz to 5 GHz band this cable exhibits an estimated 8 dB deci Bell loss. Thus the actual transmitter power at the antenna is estimated to be about 3 dBm deci Bell milliwatt . The transmit and receive antennas were placed in the cavity about 15 cm centimeters from the reflectors and oriented so that the microwave beams were directed at the reflectors in order to minimize the signal sent directly from transmit to receive antennas.

Signal reception was implemented by an Agilent E4407B spectrum analyzer and was controlled by a legacy Dolch 486 computer equipped with an HP GPIB interface card. Applications programming was done in the ASYST programming language for reasons of convenience and cost. The E4407B was set to cover the 4 GHz to 5 GHz range. Resolution and video 3 dB bandwidths were each set to 100 kHz and the time per scan was about 200 ms milliseconds . The E4407B was programmed to identify the strongest peak in each scan and to report the frequency and strength to the computer .

Received signal strength varied between 43.5 dBm and 51.5 dBm providing a margin of about 20 dB above the analyzer noise floor. The plot shows considerable structure on both large and small scales. The small scale structure of the line consists of a series of small regularly spaced peaks that are separated by about 15.7 MHz on average. This agrees well with the value of 15 MHz that is predicted by eqn. 2 for an air cavity with a length of 10 m. These peaks are therefore the longitudinal mode peaks of the cavity that are necessary for the MCAT Algorithm to operate properly.

The large scale structure also shows evidence of periodic behavior with a period of about 430 MHz in frequency space. This structure is believed to originate in a physical process different from the cavity resonances that give rise to the longitudinal modes mentioned above. One possible candidate mechanism is resonances associated with the feed horn antennas. These will invariably exhibit some frequency dependence in their radiation pattern and variation of the main lobe size by a few dB from 4 GHz to 5 GHz is not unreasonable.

Another possibility however is that the very presence of the transmit and receive horns and the coaxial cable feed lines in the cavity can perturb the field configurations due to the scattering of the waves. Thus the MCAT scans may provide information on any and all objects in the cavity whose real or imaginary parts of the index of refraction differ from those of air. Given the present physical design of our system this specifically includes the two antennas and some fractional length of their coaxial feed lines. Additionally the peak to valley contrast of the modes varies between 1 dB and 2 dB can be observed from . Clearly this contrast is preferably to be as large as possible in order to provide an improved level of sensitivity to a weakly absorbing or reflecting target. This contrast is related to cavity quality Q related to resolution and finesse related to damping time.

The cavity quality Q may be increased by minimizing losses. This process would include spillover losses from the feed horns if the reflectors subtend a solid angle smaller than that of the main lobes as well as diffraction losses and losses due to mirror misalignment and the finite conductivity of the reflector material. Careful engineering design can minimize most of these and this portends subsequent opportunities to improve the performance and sensitivity of future systems.

Despite the modest modal contrast shown in the introduction of a target into the microwave beam resulted in a measurable perturbation of the power distribution among the longitudinal cavity modes. shows the spectrum that was measured after a wooden object i.e. target was placed in the cavity within the microwave beam. The portion of the target that was intercepted by the microwaves consists of a single wooden 2 4 plank i.e. stud oriented vertically i.e. upright and hence transverse to the ground surface with the short dimension parallel to the cavity axis .

This caused an overall drop of about 2 dB in the measured signal strength across the 4 GHz to 5 GHz band. More important the presence of the target in the anechoic chamber also introduced a perturbation into the modal structure so that the modes exhibited the same strong weak strong weak pattern of oscillations that is shown in the water wave graph of for the fish tank. This represents the spectral signature expected for a target placed in the center of the cavity .

In particular shows the received spectrum as a plot with the upright wooden 2 4 plank disposed in a 10 m cavity at a position near the center at 5 m from either end. This graph features frequency between 4 GHz and 5 GHz as the abscissa and received power in dBm as the ordinate . A continuous line represents the power for each frequency with the plank target near the center the anechoic chamber that defined the cavity . In order to display this position information in a quantitative manner the spectral perturbations caused by the target must be extracted. This can be accomplished by identifying the frequencies of the mode peaks in the unperturbed data of examining the same frequencies in the data subtracting away the unperturbed spectrum and Fourier transforming the difference. The results are shown in .

In particular shows the resulting MCAT scan of this configuration with the upright wooden 2 4 plank disposed at the cavity center. This graph features distance from the cavity s boundary edge in meters as the abscissa and return strength in arbitrary units as the ordinate . A continuous line denotes the deviation from average cavity materials properties caused by the plank target as a function of position along the length of the cavity. The radar return from the target denoted by an arrow is shown at the right side of the plot . This indicates an abrupt change in the materials properties intercepted by the microwave beam at the center of the cavity i.e. the 5 m position of the 10 m cavity length . The large difference feature at the left side of the plot is believed to be an artifact caused either by the antenna horn resonances or by the modal perturbations induced by the presence of the two horn antennas in the cavity.

Other target configurations were also investigated to ensure that the MCAT Algorithm faithfully responds to different target locations. shows a plot of the MCAT scan for the same upright wooden 2 4 plank but disposed about 3 m from the receiver reflector . This graph features distance from the cavity s boundary edge in meters as the abscissa and return strength as the ordinate . A continuous line denotes the deviation from average cavity materials properties caused by the plank target as a function of position along the length of the cavity. The target s location is denoted by an arrow shown near the center of the plot

In particular shows a plot of the MCAT scan for the metal pipe and base disposed about 1.6 m from the receiver reflector . This graph features distance from the cavity s boundary edge in meters as the abscissa and return strength as the ordinate . A continuous line denotes the deviation from average cavity materials properties caused by the plank target as a function of position along the length of the cavity. The target s location is denoted by an arrow shown near the 1.5 meter position along the cavity length in the plot .

Application The first application of the tomography algorithm described herein was developed for the location of atomic scale crystallographic defects lying within the active layers of semiconductor lasers. The cavity lengths of such low power communications lasers are typically in the neighborhood of 250 m micrometers . The successful application of this algorithm to the 15 cm fish tank required that the algorithm be scaled up by a factor of about six hundred from the laser scales. The second step upward to our 10 m anechoic cavity involves a total scaling factor of about forty thousand from the laser length scales. To incorporate the MCAT Algorithm on the battlefield would typically require an additional increase in scale by about an additional factor of a thousand or three orders of magnitude.

This factor of a thousand can be accomplished in approximately three further steps. The first of these would involve a cavity length of 150 meters and will take place near the flight line in the Maginiot Open Air Test Site MOATS Facility at Dahlgren. Pending approvals by Base Operations Safety and the Flight Line organizations the second step would involve a path of 1500 m and may be performed adjacent to the Dahlgren Flight Line. The final scale up to a 10 km path and the transition to an underground path will need to be accomplished at an off base facility such as Yuma Ariz. where the testing of a 10 km MCAT will not interfere with other activities and the soil is sufficiently dry to approximate conditions in the Middle East.

The system described herein could be deployed as an automated network of sensors spaced at regular intervals along a roadway of interest. For example the straight line distance from Baghdad to Tikrit is about 159 km. If there were a road running directly between the cities and assuming that a separation of 10 km between neighboring stations yields acceptable sensitivity and spatial resolution in the Iraqi soil then this road would be divided into sixteen segments each of 10 km in length and thus employ seventeen sensor stations the first equipped with one transmitter and a mirror and the last equipped with one receiver and a mirror. The fifteen stations along the roadway would each employ two reflectors one transmitter and one receiver.

The computers controlling each receiver would be programmed to command the local spectrum analyzer to measure an RF spectrum at periodic intervals such as every 5 minutes. Each spectrum would be uploaded to the local controlling computer which would then process the data according to the algorithm extract the intelligence function and compare that with intelligence functions extracted from previous scans measured from the same volume of soil.

If the software determines that a significant new peak suddenly appears in one of the sixteen straight road segments between Baghdad and Tikrit and remains stable for a predetermined period of time the computer would be programmed to automatically raise an alarm and relay the coordinate information of the new signal peak to Coalition personnel who can then dispatch appropriate forces to take action as determined by the local commanding officer.

In summary microwave frequency computer aided tomography MCAT can be implemented by spectral analysis in an excited Fabry Perot cavity as a means of detecting and locating hostile agents crossing security perimeters or buried enemy ordnance such as IEDs within localized volumes such as the soil lying underneath roadways upon which Coalition military vehicles must travel on a regular basis.

This disclosure presents a description of the fundamental principles upon which such a detection system is based and contains the results of two trials of the system the first implemented with ultrasonic acoustic waves in a 15 cm fish tank and the second with microwaves in a 10 m cavity housed within an anechoic chamber. We report the computation of MCAT scans containing peaks whose locations correspond accurately to the target positions for targets composed of wood and metal. These results indicate technical feasibility to extract from measured cavity spectra an intelligence function giving the locations of inhomogeneities lying within the cavity particularly buried IEDs.

Twin Lead Embodiment In an alternative embodiment the attenuation of the medium can be circumvented by stretching a pair of parallel wires along a distance L and across a width W to be interrogated. It is also possible to use existing local infrastructure such as overhead power lines to implement a sensor under the proper conditions.

For the terminus being open the system represents a shunt or open loop which can be schematically described as a parallel inductor capacitor circuit. This shunt signal is reflected at the terminus . For the terminus being closed the system represents a short circuit at the terminus so that impedance remains zero at all frequencies. This short signal is bounded at the terminus which may include a power meter while the circuit at oscillator remains open.

The closed circuit with the terminus representing a closed switch reflects waves as odd harmonics of the quarter wave length defined by the distance L. As described previously each closed circuit wavelength in the cavity has an harmonic expressed as L 2n 1 4 where n is a non negative integer 0 1 2 . . . N. These harmonics are shown in as a plot for three lowest values of n. This graph features normalized distance between the oscillator and the terminus as the abscissa and wave amplitude as the ordinate . The plot shows harmonic cosine curves for n 0 as solid line n 1 as dash line and n 2 as dot dash line . Vertical lines are shown at about and of distance L at and respectively.

As can be observed the first line shows high absolute amplitudes for the first and third harmonic curves but is negligible for the second harmonic curve and the second line shows high to moderate amplitudes e.g. received power for the first and second harmonic curves but is negligible for the third harmonic curve . These differences can be exploited by a spectrum analyzer to determine amplitude differences induced by a target s presence.

In particular a target located at L may absorb the electromagnetic energy for the first and third wave modes having non zero magnitudes but not the second mode having substantially no magnitude . Alternately for the target position at L may absorb the electromagnetic energy for the first and second modes but not the third mode. Evaluation of additional modes enables intermediate positions within the modal region to be compared. The different levels of absorption depending on which modes are affected provides an indicator of the target s location. In this quarter wave example the transmission line stub appears as a resonant circuit in which the capacitive impedance component is given by Z j 2 fC where C is the capacitance per unit length of transmission line f is frequency and j 1 represents the imaginary coefficient.

Similarly each open circuit wavelength in the cavity has an harmonic expressed as L n 1 2 where n is a non negative integer 0 1 2 . . . N. These harmonics are shown in as a plot for three lowest values of n. This graph features normalized distance between the oscillator and the terminus as the abscissa and wave amplitude as the ordinate . The plot shows harmonic cosine curves for n 0 as solid line n 1 as dash line and n 2 as dot dash line . Vertical lines are shown at about and of distance L at and respectively.

As can be observed the first line shows high to moderate absolute amplitudes for the first and second harmonic curves but is negligible for the third harmonic curve . The second line shows high amplitude for the second harmonic curve but is negligible for the first and third harmonic curves and . The third line shows high to moderate amplitudes for the first and third harmonic curves but is negligible for the second harmonic curve .

In particular a target located at L may absorb the electromagnetic energy for the first and second modes but not the third mode. Alternately for the target position at L the electromagnetic energy may be absorbed for the second mode but not the first and third modes. Similarly the target at L may absorb at the first and third modes but not the second mode. These differences can be exploited by a spectrum analyzer to determine amplitude differences induced by a target s presence. The open circuit represents a high impedance circuit with Z j2 fL.

A circuit s impedance is a complex quantity i.e. having real and imaginary components that can be more generally expressed by the relation

Resolution of the target s presence by the signal analyzer may be determined by various methods such as comparing amplitudes of peaks of signals with and without the target s influence for select harmonic frequencies as described for . Alternatively the signal analyzer may determine a frequency offset for conditions of adequate quality and finesse. shows a plot with frequency f as the abscissa and wave amplitude as the ordinate . The plot features a nominal inverse cosine function wave and an offset inverse cosine function wave influenced by the target for a single mode. The nominal wave has peak amplitude at a first frequency and the offset wave has peak amplitude at a second frequency the two frequencies being offset by a frequency difference f shown as a gap . This offset can be determined for each mode over a series to characterize the absorption and reflection characteristics of the target.

The frequency difference f can then be plotted over a series of modes to thereby determine the pattern of shifts induced by the target. Information on the target location is contained within the pattern. shows a plot with mode numbers as the abscissa and frequency difference f as the ordinate . As can be observed the value of the frequency shift is a periodic function of the mode number and both positive and negative shifts are observed. This frequency shift is shown in this example to vary as a sinusoidal wave having positive maxima and negative minima at the extrema. The sinusoidal wave illustrates a continuous curve produced from a collection of discrete values for each mode. At the inflection points the frequency shift reaches zero reflecting modes with resonant frequencies unperturbed by the target. The slope at the inflection points provides a measure of the maximum rate of change in frequency shift with respect to transmission line mode number.

As the slope increases i.e. becomes steeper the target may be moving closer to the center of the cavity of the twin lead configuration along its longitudinal axis or the target may be moving closer to the transmission line conductors themselves. A power meter that inductively senses the current through the transmission line of the twin lead circuit may provide the output signal to be analyzed by a suitable instrument such as a power meter or a spectrum analyzer. The modal curve has a wavelength or period that corresponds to the target s position with respect to the cavity ends. For a target about mid way between the ends of the cavity the corresponding wavelength is short providing rapid peak to peak oscillations across the modes from one to the next. By contrast for a target in proximity to one of the ends of the cavity the corresponding wavelength or period is large appearing as a gradual undulating curve across the modes. The wavelength or period of the oscillations in the mode plot therefore contains information about the physical location of the target with respect to the transmission line sensor.

In this transmission line implementation resolving the target s position along the length of the sensor from the modal frequency differences can be accomplished by Fourier transform. An example technique for providing the frequency to position function translation is the discrete FFT. shows a plot illustrating relative position of the target or object i.e. of the source of electromagnetic absorption and or reflection along the cavity s longitudinal axis in correspondence to the frequency difference variation with modes.

The abscissa represents this relative position and the ordinate represents deviations away from the average properties of the material surrounding the sensor as lines and shown in . Idealized i.e. absent noise above and below peaks are plotted from the Fourier transform of the modal frequency differences. Both non elevated levels adjacent either side of the peaks correspond to average properties of the material surrounding the target. The upper peak represents the target s position near the center of the cavity. By contrast the lower peak represents the target s position adjacent an edge of the cavity.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that although electromagnetic waves have been described with particularity and even more specifically in conjunction with the microwave portion of the spectrum application of these principles can be extended to other wave propagators including acoustic signals through a material medium and the frequencies utilized may vary from the low kilohertz well into the Gigahertz without departing from the spirit of the invention.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

