---

title: Chrono-stratigraphic and tectono-stratigraphic interpretation on seismic volumes
abstract: A method for performing chrono-stratigraphic interpretation of a subterranean formation. The method includes obtaining a seismic volume containing stratigraphic features of the subterranean formation deformed by structural events, performing structural restoration of the seismic volume to generate a restored seismic volume by removing deformation due to the structural events, performing a chrono-stratigraphic interpretation based on the restored seismic volume to generate chrono-stratigraphic objects each associated with a respective relative geologic age, and displaying the chrono-stratigraphic objects in a chrono-stratigraphic space according to the respective relative geologic age of each of the stratigraphic objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515678&OS=08515678&RS=08515678
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 08515678
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100729
---
This application is related to copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 958 filed on Jul. 29 2010 and entitled INTERACTIVE STRUCTURAL RESTORATION WHILE INTERPRETING SEISMIC VOLUMES FOR STRUCTURE AND STRATIGRAPHY which is also assigned to the assignee of the present application the subject matter of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Operations such as surveying drilling wireline testing completions production planning and field analysis are typically performed to locate and gather valuable downhole fluids. Surveys are often performed using acquisition methodologies such as seismic scanners or surveyors to generate maps of underground formations. These formations are often analyzed to determine the presence of subterranean assets such as valuable fluids or minerals or to determine if the formations have characteristics suitable for storing fluids. The subterranean assets are not limited to hydrocarbon such as oil throughout this document the terms oilfield and oilfield operation may be used interchangeably with the terms field and field operation to refer to a field having any types of valuable fluids or minerals and field operations relating to any of such subterranean assets.

During the field operations data is typically collected for analysis and or monitoring of the operations. Such data may include for instance information regarding subterranean formations equipment and historical and or other data. Data concerning the subterranean formation is collected using a variety of sources. Such formation data may be static or dynamic. Static data relates to for instance formation structure and geological stratigraphy that define geological structures of the subterranean formation. Dynamic data relates to for instance fluids flowing through the geologic structures of the subterranean formation over time. Such static and or dynamic data may be collected to learn more about the formations and the valuable assets contained therein.

The data may be used to predict downhole conditions and make decisions concerning field operations. Such decisions may involve well planning well targeting well completions operating levels production rates and other operations and or operating parameters. There are usually a large number of variables and large quantities of data to consider in analyzing field operations. It is therefore often useful to model the behavior of the field operation to determine the desired course of action. During the ongoing operations the operating parameters may be adjusted as field conditions change and new information is received. Techniques have been developed to model the behavior of various aspects of field operations such as geological structures downhole reservoirs wellbores surface facilities as well as other portions of the field operation.

Stratigraphy is fundamental to the discipline of geology in describing the spatial geometrical structural sequential and temporal relationships of rock units. In response to the formation of rocks in highly variable depositional environments and with varying sedimentary compositions stratigraphic approaches span a wide range of disciplines such as litho bio chrono magneto seismic sequence and chemo stratigraphy. Generally in early stage geological exploration little or no information is available on sediment characteristics. The identification and analysis of a potential hydrocarbon reservoir is a matter of interpretation and analysis of seismic reflection data.

Seismic surveying is generally performed by imparting energy to the earth at one or more source locations for example by way of controlled explosion mechanical input etc. Return energy is then measured at surface receiver locations at varying distances and azimuths from the source location. The travel time of energy from source to receiver via reflections and refractions from interfaces of subsurface strata indicates the depth and orientation of such strata. Seismic data as collected via the receiver within a volume of interest is referred to as seismic volume. A seismic volume can be displayed as seismic images based on different sampling resolutions and viewing orientations as well as subject to various different seismic amplitude processing techniques to enhance or highlight seismic reflection patterns.

Seismic images indirectly show the distribution of material deposited over large areas. The spatial and temporal variability of stacking patterns or sequences observed in seismic images relates to depositional environments and post depositional processes such as erosion and tectonic activity. During seismic interpretation reflection patterns in the seismic images linking depositional environments and vertical stacking order to sequence of deposition and thus relative timing enables the geological history of the subsurface to be deciphered and leads to the estimation of probable sedimentary characteristics. In this manner a potential hydrocarbon reservoir may be identified and analyzed based on interpretation and analysis of seismic reflection data. However performing seismic data interpretation over large seismic volumes can be a daunting task particularly if done manually.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for performing chrono stratigraphic interpretation of a subterranean formation. The method includes obtaining a seismic volume comprising a plurality of stratigraphic features of the subterranean formation wherein the plurality of stratigraphic features are deformed by a plurality of structural events performing using a processor of a computer system a structural restoration of the seismic volume to generate a restored seismic volume by removing deformation due to the plurality of structural events wherein the restored seismic volume comprises a plurality of restored stratigraphic features performing using the processor a chrono stratigraphic interpretation based on the restored seismic volume to generate a plurality of chrono stratigraphic objects each associated with a respective relative geologic age and displaying the plurality of chrono stratigraphic objects in a chrono stratigraphic space according to the respective relative geologic age of each of the plurality of stratigraphic objects.

Other aspects of chrono stratigraphic and tectono statigraphic interpretation on seismic volumes will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Embodiments are shown in the above identified drawings and described below. In describing the embodiments like or identical reference numerals are used to identify common or similar elements. The drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features and certain views of the drawings may be shown exaggerated in scale or in schematic in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0260476 discloses a method for automated extraction of surface primitives from seismic data. U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0140319 A1 discloses a method for processing stratigraphic data including stratigraphic features such as horizon surfaces and assigning the stratigraphic features respective relative geologic ages. Whether performed manually or assisted by automated methods correct stratigraphic interpretation can be difficult to resolve in the presence of complex geological structures caused by tectonic events.

In one or more embodiments of chrono stratigraphic and tectono statigraphic interpretation on seismic volumes structural restoration methods are applied to the seismic volumes to remove the structural effect e.g. related to tectonic events allowing improved interpretation of chrono stratigraphic features. In one or more embodiments interpretation of such features on seismic volumes is performed by enabling dual domain interpretation of seismic features in the present day depth domain and simultaneously in a structurally restored seismic domain. Specifically interpretation of the chrono stratigraphic and depositional geometry is performed on structurally restored seismic volumes while concurrently viewing the interpretation results in the structural domain. The concurrent analysis increases the interpretation confidence gained by improved correlation of structural deformed events i.e. features in seismic image to their pre structurally deformed geometry.

In one or more embodiments relative geologic age is constructed from the chrono stratigraphic sorted seismic events by computing the true stratigraphic thickness between the events. For example the thickness in depth may be the shortest distance between the two seismic event surfaces along a vector defined by the average dips of the two events. The depth thickness may then be mapped to a user defined deposition rate to determine a relative geologic age. In one or more embodiments chrono stratigraphic interpreted features are displayed in the structurally restored seismic domain based on the true stratigraphic thickness between the events.

In one or more embodiments borehole geology is integrated in the aforementioned interpretation process to provide validation of the structural restoration consistent with the structural dip removal on the borehole dips. Specifically borehole stratigraphic interpretation is correlated to the structure free seismic volume by associating key geologic markers in the well log to their corresponding surface extracted from the seismic volume. Once calibrated in this fashion the well log data can be transformed from depth indexed to relative geologic age index presentation. In one or more embodiments chrono stratigraphic interpreted features and well log are displayed in the structurally restored seismic domain correlated based on the geologic age index.

In one or more embodiments structural deformation may be progressively removed from the seismic volume corresponding to moving back in geologic time. The interpretation can be performed in either domain present day structure or structurally restored to a defined geologic event and the interpretation may be mapped to any other computed geologic age or present structural age.

In one or more embodiments horizon surfaces are sampled within a restored geological layer in the seismic volume such that the horizon surfaces could be assigned respective relative geologic ages in a methodical and self consistent manner to avoid conflicts between the relative geologic ages of different horizon surfaces. Typically the horizon surfaces are seismic horizon surfaces where each surface corresponds to an event in the seismic data. Typically although not necessarily the horizon surfaces are parallel to each other and spatially continuous. Further the horizon surfaces correspond to interfaces between strata although the horizon surfaces may also be used to represent boundaries of geobodies such as hydrocarbon reservoirs or salt bodies. More generally the method described below may be used to assign relative geologic ages to stratigraphic features such as horizon surfaces geobodies or faults. Nonetheless in what follows the method is described in relation to horizon surfaces.

As shown in the subterranean formation includes several geological structures through . As shown the formation has a sandstone layer a limestone layer a shale layer and a sand layer . A fault line extends through the formation. In one or more embodiments the static data acquisition tools are adapted to measure the formation and detect the characteristics of the geological structures of the formation.

As shown in seismic truck represents a survey tool that is adapted to measure properties of the subterranean formation. The survey operation is a seismic survey operation for producing sound vibrations. One such sound vibration e.g. generated by a source reflects off a plurality of horizons e.g. in the subterranean formation . Each of the sound vibrations e.g. are received by one or more sensors e.g. such as geophone receivers situated on the earth s surface. The geophones produce electrical output signals which may be transmitted for example as input data to a computer on the seismic truck . Responsive to the input data the computer may generate a seismic data output.

As shown in a drilling operation is depicted as being performed by drilling tools suspended by a rig and advanced into the subterranean formations to form a wellbore . The drilling tools may be adapted for measuring downhole properties using logging while drilling LWD tools.

A surface unit not shown is used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations. The surface unit is capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. The surface unit may be provided with computer facilities for receiving storing processing and or analyzing data from the oilfield. The surface unit collects data generated during the drilling operation and produces data output which may be stored or transmitted. Computer facilities such as those of the surface unit may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield and or at remote locations.

Sensors such as gauges may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. For example the sensor may be positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at the rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the oilfield operation.

The data gathered by the sensors may be collected by the surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by the sensors may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. All or select portions of the data may be selectively used for analyzing and or predicting oilfield operations of the current and or other wellbores. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

The collected data may be used to perform activities such as wellbore steering. In another example the seismic data output may be used to perform geological geophysical and or reservoir engineering. In this example the reservoir wellbore surface and or process data may be used to perform reservoir wellbore geological geophysical or other simulations. The data outputs from the oilfield operation may be generated directly from the sensors or after some preprocessing or modeling. These data outputs may act as inputs for further analysis.

As shown in data plots through are examples of plots of static and or dynamic properties that may be generated by the data acquisition tools through respectively. For example data plot is a seismic two way response time. In another example data plot is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . In another example data plot is a logging trace. In another example data plot is a plot of a dynamic property the fluid flow rate over time. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other data may also be collected such as but not limited to historical data user inputs economic information other measurement data and other parameters of interest.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it will be appreciated that the formation may contain a variety of geological structures. Fluid rock water oil gas and other geomaterials may also be present in various portions of the formation. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formation and or its underlying structures. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations along the formation it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more location across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and or analysis using one or more acquisition tools. The terms measurement device measurement tool acquisition tool and or field tools are used interchangeably in this documents based on the context.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be evaluated. Typically seismic data displayed in the data plot from the data acquisition tool is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formation . Core data shown in plot and or log data from the well log is typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the geological structures of the subterranean formation . Production data from the production graph is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics.

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to interact with one or more data sources using one or more of the application interface s . The application interface may be configured to receive data e.g. field data from a data source and or store data in the storage repository . In addition the application interface may be configured to receive data from the storage repository and deliver the data to a data source . A data source may be one of a variety of sources providing data associated with a field. A data source may include but is not limited to a surface unit for collecting data from the field a computer a database a spreadsheet a user and a data acquisition tool as described above with respect to . The data source may be configured to provide data to the application interface through an automated process such as through a web based application a direct feed or some other form of automated process. Optionally the data source may require manual entry of data by a user through a user system using the application interface .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to interact with the structural model module using one or more of the application interfaces . The application interface may be configured to receive data e.g. model output from the structural model module and or store the data in the storage repository . In addition the application interface may be configured to receive data from the storage repository and deliver the data to the structural model module . The structural model module may use data received from the dual domain analysis tool and or one or more data sources to generate a structural model of a field. The structural model of the field produced by the structural model module may be in two or three dimensions. In one or more embodiments the structural model is used to mathematically model e.g. using a simulation system geological bodies within a subterranean formation. For example the structural model may describe the characteristics of a boundary layer between rock volumes with different properties or between solid earth and the atmosphere or the hydrosphere. The structural model may also describe the lithology of deposits or may relate to surface morphology age as opposed to deposit age or depositional environment. The surfaces in the structural model may represent boundaries of volumes. The output of a structural model may be used to understand a subterranean formation. The structural model module may be a device internal to the dual domain analysis tool . Alternatively the structural model module may be an external device operatively connected to the dual domain analysis tool . The structural model module may be configured to provide data to the application interface through an automated process such as through a web based application a direct feed or some other form of automated process. Optionally the structural model module may require manual entry of data by a user through the user system using the application interface .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to interact with the field model module using one or more of the application interfaces . The application interface may be configured to receive data e.g. model output from the field model module and or store the data in the storage repository . In addition the application interface may be configured to receive data from the storage repository and deliver the data to the field model module . The field model module may use data received from the dual domain analysis tool to generate an operating plan for a field based on the output of the dual domain analysis tool as described below. The field model module may be a device internal to the dual domain analysis tool . Alternatively the field model module may be an external device operatively connected to the dual domain analysis tool . The field model module may be configured to provide data to the application interface through an automated process such as through a web based application a direct feed or some other form of automated process. Optionally the field model module may require manual entry of data by a user through the user system using the application interface . The field model module may also be configured to send data e.g. model output directly to the user system .

In one or more embodiments the processor i.e. central processing unit CPU of the user system is configured to execute instructions to operate the components of the user system e.g. the user interface the display unit .

In one or more embodiments the user system is configured to interact with a user using the user interface . The user interface may be configured to receive data and or instruction s from the user. The user interface may also be configured to deliver instruction s to the user. In addition the user interface may be configured to send data and or instruction s to and receive data and or instruction s from the dual domain analysis tool and or the field model module . Examples of a user may include but are not limited to an individual a group an organization or some other legal entity. The user system may be or may contain a form of an internet based communication device that is capable of communicating with the application interface of the dual domain analysis tool . Alternatively the dual domain analysis tool may be part of the user system . The user system may correspond to but is not limited to a desktop computer with internet access a laptop computer with internet access a smart phone and a personal digital assistant PDA or other user accessible device.

In one or more embodiments the user system may include a display unit . The display unit may be configured to display data for user visualization. For example the data may include those stored in the storage repository .

As shown communication links are provided between the dual domain analysis tool and the user system the data source s the structural model module and the field model module . A communication link is also provided between the data source s and the structural model module and between the user system and the field model module . A variety of links may be provided to facilitate the flow of data through the system . For example the communication links may provide for continuous intermittent one way two way and or selective communication throughout the system . The communication links may be of any type including but not limited to wired and wireless.

In one or more embodiments a central processing unit CPU not shown of the dual domain analysis tool is configured to execute instructions to operate the components of the dual domain analysis tool e.g. storage repository the application interface the seismic interpretation module the structural restoration module the mapping generator the chrono stratigraphic interpretation module and the data rendering module . In one or more embodiments the memory not shown of the dual domain analysis tool is configured to store software instructions for interactive structural restoration while interpreting seismic data of a field. The memory may be one of a variety of memory devices including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM cache memory and flash memory. The memory may be further configured to serve as back up storage for information stored in the storage repository .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to obtain and store field data or data generated by various components of the dual domain analysis tool in the storage repository . In one or more embodiments the storage repository is a persistent storage device or set of devices and is configured to receive field data from a data source s the structural model module the field model module and or from a user system using the application interface . The storage repository is also configured to deliver data to and receive data from the seismic interpretation module the structural restoration module the mapping generator the chrono stratigraphic interpretation module and or the data rendering module . The storage repository may be a data store e.g. a database a file system one or more data structures configured in a memory an extensible markup language XML file some other medium for storing data or any suitable combination thereof which may include information e.g. historical data user information field location information related to the collection of field data for a field. The storage repository may be a device internal to the dual domain analysis tool . Alternatively the storage repository may be an external storage device operatively connected to the dual domain analysis tool .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to interact with the user system using the application interface . The application interface may be configured to receive data and or instruction s from the user system . The application interface may also be configured to deliver instruction s to the user system . In addition the application interface may be configured to send data and or instruction s to and receive data and or instruction s from the storage repository the seismic interpretation module the structural restoration module the mapping generator the chrono stratigraphic interpretation module and or the data rendering module .

In one or more embodiments the data transferred between the application interface and the data source the structural model module the field model module and or the user system corresponds to field data fractures stresses and strains and or various models of the field. In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to support various data formats provided by the data source s the structural model module the field model module and or the user system .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to perform seismic data interpretation of a field using the seismic interpretation module . The seismic interpretation module may be configured to receive seismic data from the application interface and identify geological features corresponding to seismic reflection patterns. Specifically the seismic interpretation module may receive a seismic data volume of the field as generated by one or more of the data source s from the application interface . This seismic data volume may be stored in the storage repository as the seismic volume . The geological features identified by the seismic interpretation module may include but are not limited to horizons geological layers sedimentary layers faults geobodies reservoirs etc. and stored as interpreted seismic features not shown in the storage repository . In one or more embodiments the interpreted seismic features may be stored as annotations in the seismic volume . The identified geological layers may be differentiated by geologic age formation type or some other suitable differentiation of layers in the field. In one or more embodiments layers of greater geologic age are located further away from the surface than layers of lesser geologic age. The seismic interpretation module may be configured to send the identified geological features to the structural model module via the application interface to be used in generating a structural model.

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to perform a structural evolution analysis of a model of a field using the structural restoration module . The structural restoration module may be configured to receive a model from the application interface and restore each of the layers of the model in a batch process. Specifically the structural restoration module may receive a structural model of the field as generated by the structural model module from the application interface . The structural restoration module may also be configured to receive the annotated seismic volume i.e. including the geological features identified by the seismic interpretation module as a model and restore each layer of the model interactively while the layer is being identified by the seismic interpretation module . Additional details of such restoring while interpreting techniques are described in the aforementioned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 958 which is incorporated herein by reference. Whether restored in a batch process or interactively the layers restored by the structural restoration module are referred to as restored geological layers and may be stored as part of the restored seismic volume in the storage repository .

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to generate a 3D displacement mapping using a mapping generator . Specifically the 3D displacement mapping removes effects e.g. faulting and or folding effects of structural events on the seismic volume and geometrically maps the geological layer into the restored geological layers. Further the 3D displacement mapping maps a structural domain of the seismic volume into a structurally restored domain of the restored seismic volume . In one or more embodiments sampling positions in the seismic volume are relocated based on the 3D displacement mapping to create the structurally restored domain where the restored seismic volume can be displayed. Accordingly other not yet interpreted seismic features e.g. stratigraphic features in the seismic volume are mapped into restored seismic features e.g. restored stratigraphic features in the restored seismic volume . In one or more embodiments the restored seismic volume corresponds to partially reconstructed version of the seismic volume if the structural restoration module is configured to perform the aforementioned restoring while interpreting techniques.

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to perform chrono stratigraphic interpretation based on the restored seismic volume using the chrono stratigraphic interpretation module . Specifically the chrono stratigraphic interpretation module is configured to generate chrono stratigraphic objects each associated with a respective relative geologic age. Further the chrono stratigraphic objects are sorted based on each respective relative geologic age for display in a chrono stratigraphic space referred to as a 3D Wheeler space. In one or more embodiments the mapping generator is further configured to generate a chrono spatial mapping between the structurally restored domain and the chrono stratigraphic space based on the chrono stratigraphic interpretation. Examples of the structural domain structurally restored domain the chrono stratigraphic space the geological layer the restored geological layer and the stratigraphic feature the restored stratigraphic features etc. described above are shown in FIGS. . . below.

In one or more embodiments the dual domain analysis tool is configured to provide one or more displays e.g. 2D display 3D display etc. using the data rendering module for visualizing the data by the user during the chrono stratigraphic interpretation. For example the data may include the seismic volume the restored seismic volume the geological layer the restored geological layer the stratigraphic feature the restored stratigraphic features etc. described above and or combinations thereof during the aforementioned restoring while interpreting process and or the chrono stratigraphic interpretation. Specifically the data rendering module performs rendering algorithm calculations to provide the one or more displays that may be presented using one or more communication links to a user at the display unit of the user system . The data rendering module may provide either by default or as selected by a user displays composed of any combination of one or more of the structural domain the structurally restored domain and the chrono stratigraphic space. In one or more embodiments the data rendering module is provided with mechanisms for actuating various display functions in the dual domain analysis tool .

The dual domain analysis tool may include one or more system computers which may be implemented as a server or any conventional computing system. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that implementations of various technologies described herein may be practiced in other computer system configurations including hypertext transfer protocol HTTP servers hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network personal computers minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

While specific components are depicted and or described for use in the units and or modules of the dual domain analysis tool it will be appreciated that a variety of components with various functions may be used to provide the formatting processing utility and coordination functions necessary to modify a magnified field model in the dual domain analysis tool . The components may have combined functionalities and may be implemented as software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Initially in Element seismic data is displayed in a structural domain. Generally the seismic data e.g. seismic amplitude and two way response time represents an interaction of seismic wave propagation with geological layers in the subterranean formation. Deformations e.g. faulting folding etc. of geological layers caused by structural events may create features or patterns in the seismic data referred to as seismic events. Seismic data corresponding to a region of interest in the formation is referred to as a seismic volume. The structural domain may represent the region of interest in a time scale or a depth scale where each scale is convertible to the other based on a velocity model of seismic wave propagation. In one or more embodiments the seismic data may be sampled or interpolated for display according to a grid of the structural domain. In one or more embodiments a seismic interpretation is performed for deciphering features in the displayed seismic data to identify a portion of the seismic data as relating to a geological layer. Accordingly the portion of the seismic data is designated as an interpreted layer. In one or more embodiments the interpreted layer may be included in a structural model of the formation which in turn is restored by structural restoration. In one or more embodiments the interpreted layer is associated with a particular tectonic phase of the formation. Additional details of interpreting seismic data to identify the interpreted layer for performing chrono stratigraphic interpretation are described in reference to FIGS. . . below.

In Element a structural restoration is performed to remove effects of the deformations on the interpreted layer. In one or more embodiments a geological layer may be restored using techniques known to those skilled in the art. In one or more embodiments a geological layer may be restored using structural restoration technique of 1 determining a layer mapping based on an effect of the deformations on the geological layer 2 generating a restored layer by applying the layer mapping to the geological layer for removing the effect of the deformations on the geological layer 3 determining a de compaction mapping based on a compaction effect of the geological layer on a remaining portion of the seismic data corresponding to other geological layers beneath the geological layer and 4 generating de compacted seismic data by applying the de compaction mapping to the remaining portion of the seismic data for removing the compaction effect caused by the geological layer.

In one or more embodiments the structural restoration is performed throughout the seismic volume to create a restored seismic volume containing seismic data e.g. amplitudes at sampling positions relocated to remove the deformations. In one or more embodiments the structural restoration is performed for each layer concurrently with interpretation of remaining layers to create a partially restored seismic volume. In one or more embodiments the structural restoration generates a 3D displacement mapping that maps between the seismic volume and the restored or partially restored seismic volume. Additional details of the restored seismic volume and partially restored seismic volume are described in reference to FIGS. . . below.

In Element chrono stratigraphic interpretation is performed based on the restored seismic volume to generate chrono stratigraphic objects each associated with a respective relative geologic age. With the faulting and or folding effects removed from the seismic volume interpretation confidence is improved in identifying the chrono stratigraphic objects in the restored seismic volume. Example chrono stratigraphic objects referred to as horizon patches are described in reference to FIGS. . . below. In one or more embodiments techniques for chrono stratigraphic interpretation in structural domain of seismic volume may be extended and applied to perform chrono stratigraphic interpretation in structurally restored domain of a restored seismic volume. Generally respective relative geologic age determined using chrono stratigraphic interpretation techniques known to those skilled in the art differentiates a younger chrono stratigraphic object from an older chrono stratigraphic object and vice versa without meaningful precision of actual age difference thereof.

In Element the chrono stratigraphic objects are displayed in a chrono stratigraphic space sorted by each respective relative geologic age. Specifically an x axis and y axis of the chrono stratigraphic space represent lateral extents of the chrono stratigraphic objects while a z axis of the chrono stratigraphic space represents respective relative geologic ages of the chrono stratigraphic objects. Generally the seismic volume is displayed in a structural domain. In one or more embodiments the chrono stratigraphic space and the structural domain are displayed simultaneously in a dual domain configuration. Accordingly in Element the chrono stratigraphic objects displayed in the chrono stratigraphic space and the stratigraphic features displayed in the structural domain are correlated for validating the chrono stratigraphic interpretation. For example a chrono stratigraphic object in the chrono stratigraphic space may be identified as corresponding to a stratigraphic feature in the structural domain based on input of a user viewing the dual domain display. In one or more embodiments the restored chrono stratigraphic features of the restored seismic volume are displayed in the structurally restored volume and included in the dual domain configuration to facilitate the correlation. For example a chrono stratigraphic object can be correlated to a restored stratigraphic feature based on the chrono stratigraphic interpretation while the restored stratigraphic feature can be further correlated to a stratigraphic feature based on the aforementioned 3D displacement mapping generated during the structural restoration.

In one or more embodiments the structural restoration preserves a rock volume between the seismic volume and the restored seismic volume. With more clarity in visualizing the restored seismic volume and discerning surface boundaries in the structurally restored domain thickness and or lateral extents of restored stratigraphic features may be determined with higher confidence. In one or more embodiments the lateral extent of a restored stratigraphic feature determined based on the structurally restored domain represents the lateral extent of a corresponding stratigraphic feature in the seismic volume and is used to define the lateral extent of a corresponding chrono stratigraphic object in the chrono stratigraphic space.

In one or more embodiments thickness of a restored stratigraphic feature determined based on the structurally restored domain represents thickness of a corresponding stratigraphic feature in the seismic volume and is used to define the relative geologic age of a corresponding chrono stratigraphic object in the chrono stratigraphic space. Specifically a deposition rate of a stratigraphic feature is obtained. For example the deposition rate may be user defined such as based on material types associated with the stratigraphic feature. In another example rock materials in the geological layer containing the stratigraphic feature may be used to estimate the deposition rate. In one or more embodiments a difference in geologic ages of two adjacent stratigraphic features is estimated based on the thickness i.e. separation therebetween and the corresponding estimated deposition rate. For example the age difference may be determined by dividing the thickness by the estimated deposition rate. Accordingly the relative geologic ages of stratigraphic features and corresponding chrono stratigraphical objects are determined cumulatively for example by accumulating such age differences over the sorted sequence of the chrono stratigraphical objects. In this manner the depths associated with stratigraphic features are convertible vice versa to relative geologic ages of corresponding chrono stratigraphical objects thus creating a chrono spatial mapping. In one or more embodiments the depth scale of the seismic volume is convertible and vice versa to a relative geologic age scale in the chrono stratigraphical space based on this chrono spatial mapping. Accordingly the relative geologic age determined as described above is associated with meaningful precision. Example dual domain display configurations and Additional details of determining chrono spatial mapping are described in reference to FIGS. . . below.

In Element a seismic well tie is performed based on a borehole geology interpretation to determine absolute geologic age of the chrono stratigraphic objects. Specifically a borehole is identified that penetrates a portion i.e. region of interest of the subterranean formation corresponding to the seismic volume. In addition a borehole geology interpretation of the borehole is obtained which includes an interpreted borehole feature such as identifiable mineral or fossil trace. In one or more embodiments an absolute geologic age of the interpreted borehole feature is determined based on a corresponding core sample. For example the absolute geologic age of the mineral or fossil trace may be determined by core sample analysis techniques known to those skilled in the art. In one or more embodiments a stratigraphic feature in the seismic volume is identified as corresponding to the interpreted borehole feature by comparing the borehole geology interpretation and the seismic volume interpretation. As described above a chrono stratigraphic object in the chrono stratigraphic space may be identified as corresponding to the stratigraphic feature based on the chrono spatial mapping. Accordingly an absolute geologic age of the chrono stratigraphic object is determined based on the absolute geologic age of the interpreted borehole feature. Additional details of the seismic well tie are described in reference to . and . below.

In one or more embodiments the restored seismic volume corresponds to a portion of the seismic volume associated with a tectonic phase while the structural events deforming the portion of the seismic volume are tectonic events within the tectonic phase. In such embodiments the respective relative geologic age of each of the chrono stratigraphic objects is based on a relative geologic age scale of the tectonic phase that can be converted to a portion of an absolute geologic age scale based on the absolute geologic age of the interpreted borehole feature.

In Element the borehole is displayed in the aforementioned dual domain display. In one or more embodiments the interpreted borehole feature is displayed in the structural domain based on comparing the borehole geology interpretation and the seismic volume. In one or more embodiments the interpreted borehole feature is displayed in the structurally restored domain based on at least the aforementioned 3D displacement mapping. In one or more embodiments the interpreted borehole feature is displayed in the chrono stratigraphic space based on at least the aforementioned 3D displacement mapping and the aforementioned chrono spatial mapping. Example screenshots of displaying the borehole in the dual domain display are shown in and . below.

As can be seen geological layer A geological layer B and geological layer C contain undulations designating relative elevation within each part of the geological layers. Generally such undulations represent faulting and or folding effects of geological events which may be combined with compaction effect due to gravity. In one or more embodiments the extent of various undulations in geological layers are depicted by color coding hatching or some other way of designating relative elevation within each part of geological layers. In this example in the undulations within geological layer A geological layer B and geological layer C are shown by hatching.

Geological layer A is the oldest shown geological layer in the field because geological layer A is the furthest geological layer from the surface . Geological layer B is the second oldest shown geological layer in the field because geological layer B is the second furthest geological layer from the surface . Geological layer C is the youngest shown geological layer in the field because geological layer C is the closest geological layer to the surface . When restoring the geological layers from the structural model the newest geological layer i.e. geological layer C may be restored initially followed by the next youngest geological layer i.e. geological layer B and so on.

As can be seen geological layer A contains significantly fewer undulations compared to geological layer A in because the faulting and folding effects of the geological events and compaction effects of the geological layer B and geological layer C are largely removed by the restoration process. In this example in the undulations within geological layer A are shown by hatching.

In one or more embodiments as a geological layer of the subterranean formation in the field e.g. geological layer A geological layer B or geological layer C from is restored chrono stratigraphic interpretation within the restored geological layer may be performed using a simultaneous viewing of the geological layer in the structural domain and structurally restored domain depicted in and . respectively. Example screenshots depicting the chrono stratigraphic interpretation based on dual domain display are shown in FIGS. . . below.

In one or more embodiments the chrono stratigraphic interpretation is performed after all geological layers in the seismic volume are restored. In such embodiments any structural restoration technique known to those skilled in the art may be used.

In one or more embodiments the chrono stratigraphic interpretation is performed in a restored geological layer before other geological layers in the seismic volume are restored. In one or more embodiments the youngest geological layer is the first to be restored and interpreted followed by the next youngest and so on. shows an example screenshot illustrating a restoring while interpreting technique. Additional details of such restoring while interpreting techniques are described in the aforementioned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 958 which is incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in the screenshot solid line segments and solid line segments represent interpreted and or validated seismic features. Depending on the relative scales the solid line segments may correspond to geological layer C and geological layer B respectively or correspond to a top surface and bottom surface of geological layer B as depicted in above. In addition dash line segments dash line segments and dash line segments represent seismic features not yet interpreted and or validated from which geological layer A and other structure and stratigraphy are being interpreted and or validated during the interactive structural restoration while interpreting seismic volumes. Further as shown in screenshot line segment and line segment each include solid and dashed portions representing faults created by geological events where solid portions have been interpreted and or validated and dash portions have not yet been interpreted and or validated.

As shown in the screenshot solid line segments and solid line segments which are reconstructions i.e. structurally restored version of solid line segments and solid line segments respectively corresponding to at least one of the two youngest geological layers B and C in the subterranean formation are shown in the structurally restored domain. As can be seen solid line segments and solid line segments contain significantly fewer undulations as compared to solid line segments and solid line segments in screenshot because the faulting and folding effects of the geological events and gravity induced compaction effects are largely removed by the restoration process.

Further as shown in screenshot dash line segments dash line segments and dash line segments are de compacted version of dash line segments dash line segments and dash line segments . Specifically gravity induced compaction effects from at least one of the geological layer C and geological layer B are removed in the de compacted version during the structural restorations thereof. Although the faulting and folding effects of the geological events on dash line segments dash line segments and dash line segments are not yet removed prior to the structural restoration of geological layer A and other structure and stratigraphy these dash line segments contain relatively less undulations compared to the corresponding dash line segments in screenshot and thus provide improved interpretation confidence. In one or more embodiments the screenshots and are viewed simultaneously during interactive structural restoration while interpreting seismic structure and stratigraphy. In one or more embodiments all or a portion of the screenshots and are viewed interchangeably and simultaneously during interactive structural restoration while interpreting seismic structure and stratigraphy. In one or more embodiments the screenshot of is superimposed with the screenshot in the structural domain and or the screenshot of is superimposed with the screenshot in the structurally restored domain where the two domains are viewed simultaneously during interactive structural restoration while interpreting seismic structure and stratigraphy.

In one or more embodiments each of the geological layer A geological layer B and geological layer C of corresponds to a particular tectonic phase. As noted above based on the relative scales the aforementioned solid line segments may correspond to a top surface and bottom surface of geological layer B of associated with a tectonic phase. In such depiction of chrono stratigraphic interpretation may be performed within the portion of seismic volume in the screenshot corresponding to the restored geological layer B and geological layer C of . Concurrently restoring while interpreting techniques may be performed within the portion of seismic volume in the screenshot corresponding to the not yet restored geological layer A of . In such embodiments the solid line segments and dashed line segments represent coarse features in the seismic volume induced by tectonic folding and or faulting events. Once the effects of such tectonic folding and or faulting events are removed by the structural restoration process less visible finer features in the seismic volume induced by sedimentary depositions may be identified and dated by the chrono stratigraphic interpretation with a higher interpretation confidence. For example sedimentary layers may not be deciphered easily in the structural domain prior to the restoration. In one or more embodiments such chrono stratigraphic interpretation is performed one tectonic phase a time.

As the restoring while interpreting process progresses the dashed line segments in the screenshot may be converted into solid line segments. Accordingly at the end of the restoring while interpreting process the entire screenshot may include all solid line segments representing a fully interpreted seismic volume corresponding to the present day subterranean formation. Correspondingly the dashed line segments in the screenshot may be converted into solid line segments upon being restored in the restoring while interpreting process. In this case at the end of the restoring while interpreting process the entire screenshot includes all solid line segments representing a fully interpreted and restored seismic volume corresponding to the present day subterranean formation.

As shown in the window includes a portion of the seismic image corresponding to a geological layer e.g. the geological layer A depicted in above exhibiting faulting and folding effects of tectonic events. In one or more embodiments such tectonic events characterize the tectonic phase associated with the geological layer. In addition the window includes a portion reconstructed from the portion by the aforementioned structural restoration process. As shown in the screenshots the original seismic depth volume is restored to remove one or more structural episodes visible in the seismic volume. For example the structural restoration process removes the faulting and folding effects of tectonic events exhibited in the seismic image portion in the window such that the resultant seismic image portion in the window contains relatively less undulations in comparison. In one or more embodiments the portions and may correspond to the portions and depicted in the screenshots and respectively.

In one or more embodiments the aforementioned structural restoration process is performed consistently with the interpretation of structural zones and structural dip removal on the borehole geology interpretation for wells within the study area. Additional details of well control based on borehole geology interpretation are described in reference to below. In one or more embodiments the structural restoration process is performed without well control if such information is unavailable.

Accordingly chrono stratigraphic interpretation may be performed for the tectonic phase in this example structurally restored domain also referred to as structure free domain depicted in the window with improved interpretation confidence. Specifically chrono stratigraphic analysis and additional detail of the stratigraphic geometry will be easier to decipher from the structurally restored volume compared to the original seismic volume. In particular additional tools for the stratigraphic interpretation such as chrono stratigraphic sorting of events and 3D Wheeler views may be more effectively used due to the correct spatial distribution of sequence boundary surfaces identified in the portion of the structurally restored volume.

In one or more embodiments the windows and are viewed simultaneously during chrono stratigraphic interpretation of the geological layer corresponding to the seismic image portions and . Such dual domain interpretation methods allow the user to view the chrono stratigraphic interpretation concurrently in the structurally restored and original structural views.

Further as shown in the screenshot includes the window containing essentially the same view of the seismic volume displayed in the window . A portion of the window corresponds to the portion of the window is displayed in an expanded view in the window showing a higher level of detail of the geological layer created during the aforementioned tectonic phase. In one or more embodiments as described in reference to above surface primitives may be extracted from the seismic volume and assigned respective relative geologic ages in the structurally restored domain shown in the window . As noted above the extracted surface primitives are surface segments spatially continuous along the extrema of the seismic volume. Such surface segments are referred to as horizon patches and are displayed as a chrono stratigraphic view in the window in the screenshot . The chrono stratigraphic view is referred to as a 3D Wheeler space.

The identification and association of key structural surfaces and sequence boundaries in relation to the chrono stratigraphic view the structurally restored version and or the original structural view allow geologic age indexing of the structural activities isolated as an elementary tectonic phase e.g. the tectonic phase associated with the geological layer depicted in the window . By repeating the process described above for each of a number of tectonic phases structural restoration and chrono stratigraphic interpretation results of various tectonic phases can then be linked to the stress computation from geomechanical modeling and the results tabulated to present the tectono stratigraphic history of the volume of interest e.g. the entire volume shown in the window . Periods of erosion and hiatus may also be identified as part of tecto stratigraphic history. Typically these erosion and hiatus periods become apparent during the structural restoration of the volume.

As shown in horizon patches can be identified and correlated between the structural domain in the window the chrono stratigraphic view in the window and the geologic age indexing window . For example horizon patches and in the window correspond to horizon patches and respectively in the window and correspond to horizon line segments and respectively in the window . As shown the geologic age indexing window includes a 2D cross sectional view of the chrono stratigraphic space shown in the window . Accordingly the horizon line segments and represents intersections of the horizon patches and with a viewing plane in the window . In one or more embodiments the viewing plane is user rotatable around a z axis in the window . Typically the z axis is substantially perpendicular to the horizon patches and in the window . Further as shown in the geologic age indexing window includes well log and eustatic curve i.e. representation of the changes of the sea level throughout the geological history used as geologic age markers to calibrate the assigned relative geologic age scale into absolute geologic age scale. In addition various attributes e.g. boundaries base level rate of change age etc. of the horizon patches are shown as tracks in the geologic age indexing window .

As noted above the horizon patches depicted in the windows and are correlated. For example the curved line segments and correspond to the line segments and respectively. As shown in the cross sectional views and the curved line segments and are restored into the line segments and by the structural restoration process where corresponding curved line segments and line segments have the same equivalent lengths and equivalent separations. For example the end point of the curved line segment is shown to be extended and correspond to the end point of the line segment such that the curved line segment and the line segment have the same equivalent length. In addition the separation between the curved line segments and in the depth scale is converted to the separation between the line segments and in the relative geologic age scale based on user assigned deposition rate. In one or more embodiments the deposition rate is estimated based on characteristics of the geological layer associated with the particular tectonic phase as well as the specific sediment composition within the separation . Accordingly the depth indexed separation and the relative geologic age indexed separation are equivalent to each other based on the estimated deposition rate. In one or more embodiments in the well log and the eustatic curve are integrated into the geologic age indexing view based on this equivalence i.e. deposition rate based mapping between the depth indexed scale and relative geologic age indexed scale. Accordingly specific marker events with known absolute geologic age within the well log e.g. based on identifiable mineral or fossil traces that can be dated with some certainty and the eustatic curve i. e. based on global sea level changes are used to calibrate the relative geologic age scale into the absolute geologic age scale. For example relative geologic age is converted into the absolute geologic age by linking known bio stratigraphic markers and or sea level trends to the same features in relative the geologic age scale then stretching the relative geologic age scale to match the absolute geologic scale at the known marker positions.

As shown in the workflow begins with depth domain seismic data . In one or more embodiments a relative geologic age indexing is performed on the seismic depth volume directly to estimate geologic age in areas of little or no well data based on the chrono stratigraphy and base level trend interpretation. Specifically the time domain seismic data is analyzed as illustrated by box to extract seismic surfaces such as horizon patches. The workflow continues with the chrono stratigraphic sorting of seismic events e.g. representing the horizon patches as illustrated by box and the construction of a relative geologic age index . In one or more embodiments chrono stratigraphic sorting illustrated in box is based on a 3D Wheeler space depicted in the screenshot of that allows for the construction of a local base level curve. In addition sedimentation rates are estimated from this interpretation to compute the thicknesses of decompacted sediment present in the seismic section as illustrated by box . Specifically within the box the true stratigraphic thickness is calculated between the seismic events. The thickness in depth may be the shortest distance between the two seismic event surfaces along a vector defined by the average dips of the two events. This depth thickness is then mapped to a user defined deposition rate to determine a relative geologic age used in the relative geologic age index .

In one or more embodiments a seismic well tie is performed to associate key geologic markers in the well log e.g. borehole data to corresponding surfaces extracted from the seismic volume as illustrated by box . Specifically the borehole data may be used to compute structural boundaries as illustrated by box for validating the extracted seismic surfaces as illustrated by box . The screenshot of depicts a representation of the borehole data superimposed in the seismic volume corresponding to the seismic data in a depth domain that can be reviewed when validating the extracted seismic surfaces . Further the borehole data may be used to compute stratigraphic thickness as illustrated by box for validating the stratigraphic thickness computed in the box as illustrated by box . Once calibrated in this fashion the borehole data can be transformed from a depth indexed representation to a relative geologic age index presentation depicted in the screenshot of . In particular the depth indexed representation of the borehole data superimposed in the seismic volume is converted to the geologic age indexed representation superimposed in the 3D Wheeler space depicted in the screenshot . A cross sectional view of the screenshot corresponds to the well log and cross sectional view shown in geologic age indexing window of above. As shown in the screenshots and are schematically linked by the seismic well tie in the workflow to generate the screenshot as illustrated by box in the workflow .

In one or more embodiments the workflow is performed for a portion of the seismic volume identified as being within a tectonic phase. In the case where the seismic volume corresponds to multiple tectonic phases the workflow may be performed for each of the tectonic phases for an expanded scope of tectono stratigraphic interpretation. In one or more embodiments an example workflow for tectono stratigraphy includes elements of 1 assigning absolute age to structural restoration surfaces planes using global eustatic curve and or well data as illustrated by box of 2 assigning the interval between successive structural restoration surfaces planes as elementary tectonic phase with absolute age limits 3 linking a type of the restoration activity e.g. normal fault restoration that has been carried out in each tectonic phase 4 linking relative stress direction and magnitudes for each of the deformation with corresponding tectonic phases and 5 optionally plotting results from elements 2 4 in a tabular format for interpretation and modeling purposes e.g. sedimentation studies or petroleum systems modeling .

Embodiments of chrono stratigraphic and tectono statigraphic interpretation on seismic volumes may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For instance as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s such as a central processing unit CPU or other hardware processor associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms now known or later developed. Generally the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further one or more embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. various components of the dual domain analysis tool may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform one or more embodiments may be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape or any other computer readable storage device.

The systems and methods provided relate to the acquisition of hydrocarbons from an oilfield. It will be appreciated that the same systems and methods may be used for performing subsurface operations such as mining water retrieval and acquisition of other underground fluids or other geomaterials materials from other fields. Further portions of the systems and methods may be implemented as software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

