---

title: Mobile device having plurality of input modes
abstract: A mobile device or system comprises a housing, a voice sensor that is configured to detect sound, a speaker, and a processing circuit configured to operate in both a first mode and a second mode. The processing circuit receives instructions from a user by detecting the user touching the device or an accessory of the device when in the first mode and receives instructions from the voice of the user through the voice sensor when in the second mode. When a predetermined requirement is met, the processing circuit is configured to switch from a first mode to a second mode without receiving specific instructions from the user to switch the mode at the time of switching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413869&OS=09413869&RS=09413869
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 09413869
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100210
---
A user of a mobile phone sometimes uses the phone while not holding it. For example the user may want to use a phone while driving a car. At this time it is difficult for the user to interact with the phone because traditionally the user must touch the input device of the phone to provide instructions.

In addition sometimes a user may want to use many applications of a handheld computer but it is inconvenient or impossible for the user to watch the display of the handheld computer. For example the user may be blind. The user may want to listen to music check for weather receive and reply to emails and get the latest stock quotes all without having to watch the handheld computer.

One exemplary embodiment relates to a mobile device. The mobile device includes a housing a voice sensor that is configured to detect sound and a speaker. The mobile device also includes a processing circuit that is configured to operate in both a first mode and a second mode. When in the first mode the processing circuit is configured to receive instructions from a user by detecting the user touching the device or an accessory of the device. When in the second mode the processing circuit is configured to receive instructions from the voice of the user through the voice sensor. When a predetermined requirement is met the processing circuit is configured to switch from a first mode to a second mode without receiving specific instructions from the user to switch the mode at the time of switching.

Another exemplary embodiment relates to a method of switching the device from a first mode to a second mode. The method includes switching the device based on circumstance and or state of the device from the first mode to the second mode when a predetermined requirement is met. In the first mode one or more processing circuits are configured to receive instructions from a user by detecting the user touching the device or an accessory of the device. In the second mode the one or more processing circuits are configured to receive instructions from voice of the user.

Yet another exemplary embodiment relates to a mobile computing device including a housing configured to be held in a hand during use a user input device configured to detect a user touching the mobile device or an accessory of the device and to covert the touches into first digital instructions a voice sensor configured to detect sound a speech conversion module configured to convert the sound into second digital instructions and a processing module. The processing module is configured in a first mode to provide the first digital instructions to any of a plurality of different programs or applications and in a second mode to provide the second digital instructions to any of the plurality of different programs or applications.

Some embodiments described herein may enable a mobile device to switch from one operating mode profile to another operating mode profile automatically. Some embodiments described herein may enable a mobile device to have a voice user interface. Some embodiments described herein may provide a mobile device an voice mode profile that is transparent to any of a plurality of programs applications. Some embodiments may allow a user to interact with the phone or handheld computer both by touching and watching and by speaking and listening. Some embodiments may allow a user to switch between the two ways of interaction in different circumstances and situation e.g. the context of the user and or phone to indicate that the user may want to interact with the phone in voice mode.

Some embodiments described herein may provide a mobile device or a method that enables a user to use all or most applications of a phone by voice instruction. Some embodiments may provide a handheld computer or a system that has a voice mode in which all instructions to the handheld computer and all feedback and information from the handheld computer are delivered by voice.

Some embodiments described herein may provide a mobile device or a system that has two modes one traditional mode and one voice mode. When in the voice mode the phone can receive instructions from a user s voice.

Some embodiments described herein may provide a phone or a method that provides automatic switching between the two modes without a user s instruction when switching. Switching of modes may occur automatically based on a device s internal state outside circumstances and or other contexts.

Referring to a mobile device is shown. The teachings herein can be applied to device or to other electronic devices e.g. a desktop computer mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or handheld computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA smartphone mobile telephone personal navigation device etc. According to one embodiment device may be a smartphone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having PDA functionality. PDA functionality can comprise of one or more of personal information management e.g. including personal data applications such as email calendar contacts etc. database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording Global Positioning System GPS functionality etc. Device may be configured to synchronize personal information from these applications with a computer e.g. a desktop laptop server etc. . Device may be further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

As shown in device includes a housing and a front and a back . Device further comprises a display and a user input device e.g. a QWERTY or alphanumeric keyboard buttons touch screen speech recognition engine etc. . Display may comprise a touch screen display in order to provide user input to a processor see to control functions such as to select options displayed on display enter text input to device or enter other types of input. Display also provides images see e.g. that are displayed and may be viewed by users of device . User input device can provide similar inputs as those of touch screen display . An input button may be provided on front and may be configured to perform pre programmed functions. Device can further comprise a speaker a stylus not shown to assist the user in making selections on display a camera a camera flash a microphone a light sensor and an earpiece . Display may comprise a capacitive touch screen a mutual capacitance touch screen a self capacitance touch screen a resistive touch screen a touch screen using cameras and light such as a surface multi touch screen proximity sensors or other touch screen technologies and so on. Display may be configured to receive inputs from finger touches at a plurality of locations on display at the same time. Display may be configured to receive a finger swipe or other directional input which may be interpreted by a processing circuit to control certain functions distinct from a single touch input. Further a gesture area may be provided adjacent e.g. below above to a side etc. or be incorporated into display to receive various gestures as inputs including taps swipes drags flips pinches and so on. One or more indicator areas e.g. lights etc. may be provided to indicate that a gesture has been received from a user.

According to an exemplary embodiment housing is configured to hold a screen such as display in a fixed relationship above a user input device such as user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and the user input device e.g. a plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment.

Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a hand of a user comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. The various input devices and other components of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front surface shown in the rear surface shown in the side surfaces as shown in etc. . Furthermore various components such as a keyboard etc. may be retractable to slide in and out from a portion of device to be revealed along any of the sides of device etc. For example as shown in front may be slidably adjustable relative to back to reveal input device such that in a retracted configuration see input device is not visible and in an extended configuration see input device is visible.

According to various exemplary embodiments housing may be any size or shape and have a variety of length width thickness and volume dimensions. For example width may be no more than about 200 millimeters mm 100 mm 85 mm or 65 mm or alternatively at least about 30 mm 50 mm or 55 mm. Length may be no more than about 200 mm 150 mm 135 mm or 125 mm or alternatively at least about 70 mm or 100 mm. Thickness may be no more than about 150 mm 50 mm 25 mm or 15 mm or alternatively at least about 10 mm 15 mm or 50 mm. The volume of housing may be no more than about 2500 cubic centimeters cc or 1500 cc or alternatively at least about 1000 cc or 600 cc.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Long Term Evolution LTE systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Device may be configured to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment host processor is an OMAP2 such as an OMAP2431 processor manufactured by Texas Instruments Inc.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm webOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support the A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone a headset a car speaker one or more other speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or base band processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or base band processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital base band operations for device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

Device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS CDMA and or LTE system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers configured to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1 RTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more location determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

Device may be configured to operate in one or more location determination modes including for example a standalone mode a mobile station MS assisted mode and or a MS based mode. In a standalone mode such as a standalone GPS mode device may be configured to determine its position without receiving wireless navigation data from the network though it may receive certain types of position assist data such as almanac ephemeris and coarse data. In one embodiment device may comprise a local location determination circuit e.g. a GPS receiver which may be integrated within housing configured to receive satellite data via an antenna and to calculate a position fix. Local location determination circuit may alternatively comprise a GPS receiver in a second housing separate from housing but in the vicinity of device and configured to communicate with device wirelessly e.g. via a PAN such as Bluetooth . When operating in an MS assisted mode or an MS based mode however device may be configured to communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with a remote computer e.g. a location determination entity PDE a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC etc. .

In an MS assisted mode such as an MS assisted AGPS mode the remote computer may be configured to determine the position of the mobile computing device and provide wireless data comprising a position fix. When assisting the mobile computing device the remote computer may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid location determination.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support location determination. For example the transceiver module and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support location determination.

Referring to in one exemplary embodiment device includes an operating system operating system that is implemented on the processors. Operating system is configured to receives signals from user input devices and microphone and provide command signals or digital instructions to applications and programs . Operating system is also configured to receive data and or information signals from applications and programs and provide signals to display and speakers. Operating system may work in two different operating modes a traditional mode profile and a voice mode profile . Operating system may further include a speech to text module and a text to speech module . The speech to text module is a speech conversion module that is configured to convert audio signals into text such as words phonemes ASCII characters etc. . . . . The text to speech module is a text conversion module that is configured to convert text into audio signals. In one exemplary embodiment operating system is an upgraded version of webOS by Palm Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. or webOS installed with voice mode software. webOS is a LINUX based operating system which uses a system of cards used to manage multitasking. In another embodiment operating system is an application manager software that is specialized at managing applications on a cell phone or a handheld computer. In another exemplary embodiment operating system provided to the user with device so that the user is provided with an end to end solution regarding voice mode profile . Accordingly the user does not need to seek software or hardware in addition to device to implement functions described in various embodiments.

Under traditional mode a user provides instructions through user input devices which may include a key pad a touch screen a touch pad a button a mouse a stylus or any input devices that a user can touch to provide his intent or instruction. A user touching one of the user input devices may involve more than one movement such as pushing pulling stroking clicking grabbing typing or any movement that signals the user s intent by putting part of the user s body into contact with one of the user input devices . When operating system receives the instructions it sends corresponding commands or digital instructions to applications and programs that the user wants to use or is using.

Under voice mode a user provides instructions by voice through a voice sensor e.g. microphone . Microphone converts the voice into voice signals. The speech to text module then converts the voice signal into text. Operating system recognizes the text and converts the text into instructions. Alternatively operating system can also directly convert the voice signal into instructions. Operating system then sends corresponding commands or digital instructions to applications and programs . The device may be configured to operate under additional modes which may combine features from the traditional and voice mode or have other user input features.

When any of the applications and programs have information or data for users it may send text information to operating system . In traditional mode operating system may display the text on display . In voice mode operating system may convert the text into voice with text to speech module and provide the voice to the user through a speaker. In one exemplary embodiment the text to speech module shares a processor with other applications. In another exemplary embodiment there is a processor dedicated to converting text to speech.

Applications and programs may include email phone call SMS internet searching web browser text processing music playing weather stock quotes games or any applications programs functions or services that a mobile device may provide.

According to one exemplary embodiment operating modes of operating system are transparent to applications and programs . In this exemplary embodiment for the same instruction the commands or digital instructions sent to applications and programs are the same regardless of whether the corresponding instructions are received from user input devices or microphone . In another embodiment for the same instruction a portion of the command or digital instruction sent to applications and programs are the same. In one exemplary embodiment applications and programs receive commands or digital instructions in the same way e.g. in a same data format and or data content regardless of whether the corresponding instructions are received from user input devices or microphone . In another exemplary embodiment applications and programs receive and process the commands or digital instructions in very similar ways. This agnostic structure can reduce the need to modify or upgrade applications and programs because applications and programs that are compatible with traditional mode will be compatible with voice mode .

Referring to when device is turned on step it checks whether predetermined requirements are met to decide which mode it should be operating in step . If the predetermined requirements are met device will enter voice mode step . Otherwise device will enter traditional mode step . The predetermined requirements such as determining that device is in communication with a hands free car phone can include any automatic requirement which may include any requirement that does not require user input to determined the mode at the time of determining or switching mode.

Referring to device may switch between two modes. In one exemplary mode when device is operating in traditional mode a user may touch user input device to change to voice mode . Step . Alternatively when a predetermined requirement is met device will change to voice mode automatically without further instructions from the user. Step . When device is in voice mode a user can either say e.g. switch mode step or touch a user input device step to switch device to traditional mode .

In various exemplary embodiments the predetermined requirements include circumstance and or state of the device. In one embodiment device may switch from the traditional mode to voice mode when device detects the circumstance around it meets certain conditions. In another exemplary embodiment device may switch from the traditional mode to voice mode when its internal state changes in a certain way.

In one exemplary embodiment the predetermined requirements include that device is in communication with e.g. connected in a wired or wireless manner a car. For example when device is connected to a car kit device device will automatically switch to voice mode . Therefore when the user is driving and receives an email or other data to be presented to the user the user does not need to manually switch device to voice mode .

In another exemplary embodiment device has location determination circuit and a user can set certain locations e.g. a parking lot home driveway or on the way to work as one of the predetermined requirements. When device detects that it is located within a range of longitude and latitude of the predetermined location s device will switch to voice mode .

In another exemplary embodiment device has location determination circuit and the predetermined requirements include that device is moving faster than a certain speed. For example if device detects that it is moving faster than 20 miles per hour which indicates that the user is possibly driving device will switch to voice mode without requiring user input.

In another exemplary embodiment the predetermined requirements include that a certain time has arrived. For example a user may set a calendar event and know that the user would not be able to hold the phone when the event happens. The user can set device in such a way that when the calendar event is activated device switches to voice mode without further instruction.

In another exemplary embodiment device is equipped with a light sensor that is configured to detect intensity of light. The predetermined requirements include that the light is within a predetermined intensity range. For example if the light is very dim e.g. lower than a predetermined intensity threshold device will switch to voice mode automatically.

In another exemplary embodiment the predetermined requirements include that the presence of certain accessories are detected by device . For example when an accessory microphone is plugged in device device may automatically switch to voice mode .

In various embodiments a user may have choices whether and how to enable a predetermined requirement. The user may change settings from time to time based on his her preference which setting may be stored in a table in memory accessible by the processing circuit to determine in which of traditional mode voice mode or another mode to operate.

Referring to two systems for converting or translating voice into texts are illustrated though other systems are contemplated. Referring to voice to text module may convert the voice into text within the processing circuit. After receiving the voice signal from the microphone step the voice to text module may recognize and convert the voice signal into a text signal step . Voice to text module may employ readily available speech recognition technologies. Referring to after receiving the voice signal step voice to text module may send the voice signal through antenna system to another computer computer step . In one embodiment computer is a server maintained by a service provider remote from device . The server provides voice to text service to device receiving voice signals from device and sending text signals to device step . In one exemplary embodiment the voice to text module may be an independent software program. In another exemplary embodiment the voice to text module may be embedded within operating system . In yet another exemplary embodiment the voice to text module may have a dedicated processing circuit e.g. comprising a processor .

Referring to one exemplary embodiment of the processes of sending an email in both traditional mode and voice mode is shown. At step device is turned on or otherwise enabled. At step the mode is determined for example using one of the methods described hereinabove. After device enters traditional mode step the user can open or operate an email service function or program by using user input device step . After device enters voice mode step the email service function or program is opened or operated once the processing circuit detects that the user says Email step . Once the email is opened or activated step in traditional mode device is configured to receive text from a user input device e.g. a keypad step . In voice mode the steps of composing an email include receiving a dictation of the text from the user step voice to text module converting the voice into text step the text to voice module reading the converted text to the user step and the user revising or confirming the text step . The user may indicate confirmation by saying confirmed or send or other response which is received by device . The user may indicate that the text need further revision by saying revise. Device may be configured to send the email when the user eventually confirms the text of the email in either operating mode step . Other instructions regarding emails may be provided by voice. For example a user may say the name or email address of the recipient the title of the email and the email may be marked as highly important etc. When the user wants to compose the text of the email body the user may say email body. If the user does not want to send immediately the user may say store as draft. Further in voice mode when an email is received operating system may waken device from a sleep state e.g. a low power state and provide voice to the user e.g. an email is received. The user can then provide a series of instructions regarding the new email e.g. read it reply forward reply to all next email. According to this embodiment device is configured to receive requests from the user via voice process the requests provide one or more responses via audio output and receive additional requests from the user via voice or input keys to further process a related task such as an e mail calendar appointment web browsing etc. in the same application.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a process of playing a music file is illustrated. When device is turned on step the operating mode is determined by either user input or the circumstance internal state of device step . If device enters a traditional mode step device is configured to receive instructions from a user input device e.g. a keypad step . Alternatively if device enters a voice mode step device is configured to receive instructions from a microphone e.g. a user saying music step . When the music program is activated or a music player is opened step in traditional mode device is configured to receive the user s selection of the music file from a user input device step . In voice mode device is configured to receive the user s selection of the music file from a microphone step . Device may then play or read out one or more albums corresponding to the selected music file if needed step . The device will then play the selected music file received under either operating mode step . A user can also provide other instructions by voice such as stop forward to next song volume up volume down. 

In one exemplary embodiment a user can open a web browser under voice mode . When the device is in voice mode a user can say Internet Browsing. Operating system is configured to detect through a voice sensor e.g. a microphone a voice Internet Browsing. System then opens a web browser. Operating system is configured to detect an Internet address that the user wants to browse. In one exemplary embodiment that internet address is directed to a website that ideally has a specifically designated purpose or only a few choices so that device can read the content of the web site through a speaker. In another exemplary embodiment a web site is specifically created for users that cannot see watch or read while visiting its Internet address and information and choices are given by voice already.

In one exemplary embodiment a user may make phone calls under voice mode . Operating system is configured to detect the user saying phone and to activate a phone call program. Operating system is then configured to detect the user saying the name of the person the user wants to call or the number the user wants to dial. After confirmation device automatically e.g. without requiring manual or physical user input makes the phone call to the instructed person or number. The phone call program can also be activated when there is an incoming call. A user may say instructions regarding this incoming phone call e.g. pick up reject or direct to voicemail. When a user tries to make or answer a phone call and the headset or earphone is not connected operating system may instruct device to enter speaker mode and provide voice through speaker .

In one exemplary embodiment a user may send text messages under voice mode . Operating system is configured to detect the user saying message and to start the message program. Operating system is configured to receive the user dictating the content of the message. Device may read the text of the message to him through text to speech module and a speaker. After confirmation that the text is correct the user then may say the person s name or number that he she wants the message to be sent to.

In one exemplary embodiment a user may search the Internet under voice mode . The user may say internet searching in order to open an Internet Searching service function program. The user may then say the search term and device will automatically search for the said search term. In one embodiment device will read the search result by text to speech module .

It is noted that in one exemplary embodiment all or most of applications and programs that can be opened in voice mode can be opened in traditional mode and vice versa. In one exemplary embodiment operating system has two user interfaces the traditional interface and the voice interface. In the voice interface the user may give every instruction by speaking to device and receive response from device from a speaker. All interactions between the user and device may be conducted through voice. The user does not need to touch anything to give instructions or watch display to get feedback or information.

Regarding an exemplary embodiment of an interface to applications is illustrated. In one exemplary embodiment conversation with the device can be started by two triggers. One trigger is Device to User Device driven trigger DDT e.g. when the user receives a phone call or when the user receives an SMS email or any notification. Another trigger is User to Device User driven trigger UDT e.g. when the user sends new email SMS browses the web retrieves navigation information. In another exemplary embodiment for each conversation there will be a context. For example for DDT the trigger will be a phone call SMS or any notification and the context will be a phone application SMS application and an identified application related to the notification. Thus the context will be an application that is related to the trigger. For UDT the trigger will be the user sending an email SMS browsing web getting navigation etc. and context will be identified as an application e.g. email SMS web browser navigation tool etc. In this manner Speech Application Interface Manager SAIM is configured to identify the application to interact with and monitor the state of the context. Once context is selected SAIM is configured to identify actions. In one exemplary embodiment SAIM will identify the action using dynamic grammar. For example if a voice is received by the processing circuit SAIM is configured to identify the function needs to call for the context application. SAIM is also configured to recognize that dictation is needed and to enter the free text mode in which the voice can be converted into text. After SAIM identifies context action and free text it will map the context and action to the right Application plugin and Application Programming Interface API . Using API exposed by the application application plugin will interface with the application. With API the application will be totally unaware of voice mode profile and speech interface. A person with ordinary skill in the art would recognize that there are at least three types of grammar in speech recognition. There is static grammar where the grammar is pre fed to the speech engine. For example numbers and names of cities or countries are pre fed to the speech engine. There is dynamic grammar which is fed at run time to speech engine based on context. For example under a dynamic grammar all names in an address book are fed to a speech engine at run time and the user is asked to say a name and the processing circuit would search the contact from the names fed. In another example of a dynamic grammar the processing circuit is configured to feed a few options e.g. read reply forward compose to speech engine and to ask user to say one of these and to match user utterances to one of these four. In yet another example the processing circuit is configured to feed names of movies playing at nearest AMC and to ask the user to say a name . There is free speech grammar e.g. the processing circuit taking dictation or notes. A person with ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the speech to text engine module can use any one or combination of these grammars and any other applicable grammars. In one exemplary embodiment SAIM is integrated within Operating System . In another exemplary embodiment SAIM is an additional software that is installed on Operating System .

Various embodiments disclosed herein may include or be implemented in connection with computer readable media configured to store machine executable instructions therein and or one or more modules circuits units or other elements that may comprise analog and or digital circuit components e.g. a processor or other processing circuit configured or arranged to perform one or more of the steps recited herein. By way of example computer readable media may include RAM ROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage flash memory or any other medium capable of storing and providing access to desired machine executable instructions. The use of circuit or module herein is meant to broadly encompass any one or more of discrete circuit components analog and or digital circuit components integrated circuits solid state devices and or programmed portions of any of the foregoing including microprocessors microcontrollers ASICs programmable logic or other electronic devices.

While the detailed drawings specific examples and particular formulations given describe preferred and exemplary embodiments they serve the purpose of illustration only. The inventions disclosed are not limited to the specific forms shown. For example the methods may be performed in any of a variety of sequence of steps. The hardware and software configurations shown and described may differ depending on the chosen performance characteristics and physical characteristics of the computing devices. For example the type of computing device communications bus or processor used may differ. The systems and methods depicted and described are not limited to the precise details and conditions disclosed. Furthermore other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

