---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating transferring of conference calls using mobile communication devices
abstract: Systems and methods for facilitating transferring of a conference call. In some embodiments, users of a secure mobile device may be provided with the ability to transfer a media session for use in a conference call to a non-secure communication device. The method may include displaying a user interface on the primary communication device, the user interface including a transfer option, receiving a command selecting the transfer option, sending a transfer request from the primary communication device to the conference call controller to link an alternate communication device within the conference call session, and determining whether the transfer request requires authentication, and if so performing authentication of the transfer request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08417229&OS=08417229&RS=08417229
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08417229
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100302
---
Embodiments described herein relate generally to conference calling and more specifically to a system and method for facilitating the transfer of a conference call.

Most applications for use with mobile devices have been designed to be stand alone applications with a centralized email server providing e mail a telephony system providing voice services an instant messenger service allowing short informal chats etc. However it has been recognized that these services or tools may be enhanced and may improve efficiency if greater interaction between such services was facilitated.

Consider a situation in which clicking on an e mail while at home automatically initiated a call from the user s enterprise PBX Private Branch Exchange to the e mail sender or launched an IM Instant Messaging session from a problem tracking system to allow informal communications between a support engineer and the customer. This inter working has become known as unified communications .

One way is to implement a unified communications system within an enterprise. Proprietary protocols may be introduced glue applications may be written to tie together the administration API Application Programming Interface published by one company with an equivalent API from another. However such solutions require substantial effort to introduce inter operability with services.

One difficulty arises when it is desirous to communicate to a device external to the enterprise. The external device may not receive the same benefits of security and control as those devices within or considered to exist as part of the enterprise.

Some embodiments described herein make use of a mobile station. A mobile station is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities having the capability to communicate with other computer systems and is also referred to herein generally as a mobile device. A mobile device may also include the capability for voice communications. Depending on the functionality provided by a mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities . A mobile device communicates with other devices through a network of transceiver stations.

Difficulties in implementing a unified communications system within an enterprise have been recognized and a protocol has been created that allows the establishment control and release of sessions between users and servers in a generic and extensible fashion. The Session Initiation Protocol SIP has been designed and further enhanced through the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force . The applicants have recognized that SIP provides a flexible environment that can be leveraged to bring unified communications to mobile devices.

SIP is an application layer control signalling protocol for creating modifying and terminating sessions with one or more participants. These sessions include Internet multimedia conferences Internet telephone calls and multimedia distribution. Members in a session can communicate via multicast or via a mesh of unicast relations or a combination of these.

SIP as defined in RFC 2543 and superseded by RFC 3261 is the IETF s standard for multimedia session management. SIP is an ASCII based application layer control protocol that supports user mobility. It is used to establish maintain modify and terminate multimedia sessions between two or more end points. It is important to note that SIP provides the control plane for these sessions the data plane part of the session uses RTP as the transport protocol. There is no requirement that the data plane and control plane follow the same path through the IP domain.

To aid the reader in understanding the implementation of SIP in a telephony application reference is made to . An example of a network shown generally as implementing a call from a VoIP phone is shown in . Illustrated therein is a call originating from a mobile device discussed in greater detail below which in this instance is fulfilling the role of User Agent Client UAC . The call establishment signalling goes via a Back to Back User Agent B2BUA and through a number of User Agent Servers UAS such as proxy and redirect servers and or a registrar server to the PBX and ultimately to the receiving phone using the SIP signalling. Once the control path is established and the call allowed the voice media stream is sent via RTP to the PBX directly.

During any one SIP session a UA will function either as a UAC or a UAS but not as both simultaneously. SIP provides a means to establish control and terminate one or more multimedia sessions. However SIP itself is not an application but a platform on which applications can be built. An application built utilizing the SIP protocol may provide simple voice calling functionality in a low featured softphone or large and complex functionality such as for an eLearning application that would involve the transmission of voice video and slides to a multi participant conference.

Some embodiments described herein are generally directed to systems and methods that provide users of a communication device facility in transferring a conference call. In particular embodiments users of a secure mobile device may be provided with the ability to transfer a media stream for use in a conference call to a non secure communication device.

To aid the reader in understanding the structure of a mobile device and how it communicates with other devices reference is made to .

Referring first to a block diagram of a mobile device in one example implementation is shown generally as . Mobile device comprises a number of components the controlling component being microprocessor . Microprocessor controls the overall operation of mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example implementation of mobile device communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behaviour described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that embodiments described herein are intended to be used by any other suitable standards related to wireless communication that are developed in the future. The wireless session connecting communication subsystem with network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation of mobile device other wireless networks may also be associated with mobile device in variant implementations. Different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some older examples of data centric networks include the Mobitex Radio Network and the DataTAC Radio Network. Examples of older voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

Microprocessor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM flash memory display auxiliary input output I O subsystem serial port keyboard speaker microphone short long range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example display and keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. Operating system software used by microprocessor is typically stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM .

Mobile device may send and receive communication signals over network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a mobile device . To identify a subscriber mobile device requires a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM card to be inserted in a SIM interface in order to communicate with a network. SIM is one type of a conventional smart card used to identify a subscriber of mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Alternatively by way of example only other types of smart cards which might be used may include an R UIM removable user identity module or a CSIM CDMA code division multiple access subscriber identity module or a USIM universal subscriber identity module card. Without SIM mobile device is not fully operational for communication with network . By inserting SIM into SIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services could include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. SIM includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once SIM is inserted in SIM interface it is coupled to microprocessor . In order to identify the subscriber SIM contains some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using SIM is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. SIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information.

Mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists battery in providing power V to mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to mobile device .

Microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on mobile device . A set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on mobile device during its manufacture. Another application that may be loaded onto mobile device would be a personal information manager PIM . A PIM has functionality to organize and manage data items of interest to a subscriber such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous where the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office and or a home computer system.

Additional applications may also be loaded onto mobile device through network auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short long range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using mobile device .

Serial port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

Short long range communications subsystem provides for communication between mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of network . For example subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short long range communication would include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 802.16 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by communication subsystem and input to microprocessor . Microprocessor will then process the received signal for output to display or alternatively to auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using keyboard in conjunction with display and possibly auxiliary I O subsystem . Auxiliary I O subsystem may include user input devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. Keyboard is an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. A composed item may be transmitted over network through communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals would be output to speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through speaker display may also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to a block diagram of the communication subsystem component of is shown. Communication subsystem comprises a receiver a transmitter one or more embedded or internal antenna elements Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP .

The particular design of communication subsystem is dependent upon the network in which mobile device is intended to operate thus it should be understood that the design illustrated in serves only as one example. Signals received by antenna through network are input to receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over network via antenna . DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in DSP .

The wireless link between mobile device and a network may contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between mobile device and network . An RF channel is a limited resource that must be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of mobile device .

When mobile device is fully operational transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is sending to network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Referring now to a block diagram of a node of a wireless network is shown as . In practice network comprises one or more nodes . Mobile device communicates with a node within wireless network . In the example implementation of node is configured in accordance with General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Global Systems for Mobile GSM technologies. Node includes a base station controller BSC with an associated tower station a Packet Control Unit PCU added for GPRS support in GSM a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Registry VLR a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . This list of components is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the components of every node within a GSM GPRS network but rather a list of components that are commonly used in communications through network .

In a GSM network MSC is coupled to BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through PCU SGSN and GGSN to the public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities BSC also contains a Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track mobile device location and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management HLR is shared between MSC and SGSN . Access to VLR is controlled by MSC .

Station is a fixed transceiver station. Station and BSC together form the fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from mobile device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different nodes. For example one node may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all mobile devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in HLR . HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in VLR . Further VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from HLR to VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

SGSN and GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. SGSN and MSC have similar responsibilities within wireless network by keeping track of the location of each mobile device . SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on network . GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSN s via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given mobile device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring a DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a mobile device through PCU and SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for network insofar as each mobile device must be assigned to one or more APNs and mobile devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN may be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity IPsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a mobile device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be deallocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by DHCP server .

Referring now to a block diagram is shown illustrating components of a communication system shown generally as in one example configuration. Host system will typically incorporate a corporate office or other local area network LAN shown generally as but may instead be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In the example shown in communication system incorporates a LAN of an organization to which a user of a mobile device with example embodiments illustrated as A B C belongs.

As illustrated in some embodiments of the mobile device A operate on a cellular network WAN wide area network while other embodiments C may operate on the 802.11 802.16 WiFi WiMax network only WLAN wireless local area network . Such devices C which operate only on a WLAN may be provided with SIP based Voice over IP VoIP functionality to facilitate external calling. Some embodiments of the mobile device B may be dual mode and may be configured to operate both on the cellular network and on the WLAN . The mobile devices A B C are typically configured to utilize SIP. Preferably the mobile device A B C SIP stack will be configured to communicate over both UDP and GME transport simultaneously.

To support multiple SIP applications on a mobile device A B C a SIP UA API SIP User Agent Application Programming Interface is preferably introduced. This API abstracts the applications from the SIP implementation thus removing the need for the application programmer to know about the details of the protocol.

The SIP UA API will provide methods to construct control and delete dialogs a dialog being a single session between the device and some endpoint. For example in a VoIP call a dialog is a call leg between the device and the PBX. A dialog may have none one or multiple media streams associated. For example a video audio call will have two bidirectional media streams.

In addition the SIP UA API will provide means to register reregister and deregister SIP applications from the associated registrar server. This will be implemented in such a way to abstract the details of the registration from the application so the application is unable to modify the registration parameters or the registrar information.

Finally the SIP UA API will provide a set of methods to allow applications a way to subscribe for events from a remote server and to notify a remote server of local application events.

The connectivity of certain embodiments of the mobile devices A B C are also illustrated in . As can be seen the WAN mobile device A is connected through the relay to the enterprise external firewall and on to the Mobile Enterprise Server MES . The WLAN mobile device C sends and receives data by connecting over the Enterprise WLAN to the MES bypassing the Relay . SIP based IP Telephony is provided via a direct UDP connection to the SIP server and similarly RTP between the end points. The dual mode mobile device B may utilize connections available to the other types of mobile devices A C.

A Service Delivery Platform SDP is located within the enterprise LAN behind the corporate firewall . A SIP enabled mobile device A B C communicates with the SDP usually over the GME connection either through the Relay or directly with the Mobile Enterprise Server MES if operating in serial bypass mode e.g. WLAN Enterprise Data . On the other side of the firewall the SDP communicates with existing enterprise servers.

The SDP typically will be involved in the SIP message control flow. The media flow represented by the RTP session in the embodiment illustrated in routes directly to the PBXs D E from the mobile device B C.

The SDP is designed to be a platform upon which any number of applications may be executed. The control towards the device A B C will typically utilize a custom or enterprise specific SIP ESSIP but the SDP may utilize different protocols in communicating with other servers. This is illustrated in where five example applications on the SDP namely Instant Messaging IM Presence Conference VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol and Fixed Mobile Convergence use a variety of third party protocols in communication with the gateway and PBX servers A B C D E providing the application functionality.

The MES may comprise various software and or hardware elements for administering certain communication functionality of the mobile devices A B C. For example the MES may comprise an administration server a mobile data server a message server discussed in greater detail below a database a security module which may be configured to encrypt and decrypt data and or messages an IM server and a media server .

LAN may comprise a number of network components connected to each other by LAN connections. For instance one or more users desktop computers not shown each of which may comprise a cradle may be situated on LAN . Cradles for mobile device A B C may be coupled to a desktop computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Such cradles may facilitate the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications between mobile device A B C and LAN from a desktop computer to mobile device A B C and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing mobile device A B C for use. The information downloaded to mobile device A B C may include certificates used in the exchange of messages. It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that user computers may also be connected to other peripheral devices not explicitly shown in .

Furthermore only a subset of network components of LAN are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that LAN will comprise additional components not explicitly shown in for this example configuration. More generally LAN may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example of .

In one example implementation LAN may comprise a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the LAN and mobile device B C. A wireless VPN router may permit a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to mobile device A B C. With the implementation of Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 into IP based wireless networks enough IP addresses will be available to dedicate an IP address to every mobile device B C making it possible to push information to a mobile device B C at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it could be an off the shelf VPN component not requiring a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure to be used. A VPN connection might utilize Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection to deliver the messages directly to mobile device A B C in such implementation.

The communication system shall preferably comprise the VoIP application which is configured to utilize SIP to provide VoIP functionality. The SDP is configured to route VoIP ESSIP requests from the mobile device B C to the VoIP application thereby enabling IP calling from a mobile device B C connected on the WLAN to an existing SIP enabled gateway or PBX server A B C D E. For example the VoIP functionality may include basic calling features such as make and take a VoIP call hold and resume transfer attended and semi attended ad hoc conferencing among others.

The VoIP telephony functionality in some embodiments may be limited to those devices such as for example devices B C that are connected to the WLAN . The use of VPN may allow devices B C that are outside the enterprise to access enterprise VoIP services in a secure fashion.

The inventors have recognized the non uniform way each third party manufacturer s PBX or other gateway server A B C D E uses SIP. Typically each such gateway A B C D E uses its own version of SIP call flow to establish control and release calls. As a result the SIP call flow between the endpoint typically a communication device such as for example mobile device A B C and the PBX or gateway A B C D E needs to be customized for that particular PBX or gateway A B C D E.

The VoIP application incorporates a customized Back to Back User Agent B2BUA not shown in the Service Delivery Platform thereby positioned between the mobile device B C and the gateway A B C D E. The B2BUA abstracts the details of the PBX call flows registration call control and configuration from the mobile device B C. The B2BUA implements a defined set of ESSIP call flows to the mobile device B C that can support the basic set of telephony procedures. The B2BUA also satisfies the SIP call flows that are specific to the gateway A B C D E for the same set of telephony procedures.

As each manufacturer s gateway server A B C D E typically requires a different set of call flows for the same feature the B2BUA encapsulates the gateway A B C D E specifics for the basic calling feature set into a PBX Abstraction Layer PAL each gateway A B C D E having its own specific PAL.

In addition if necessary the B2BUA can support other PBX specific feature extensions which may be made available to communication devices coupled to the network such as the mobile devices B C. These extensions are handled through a PBX Extension Layer PEL in the B2BUA which like the PAL abstracts the complexities of each PBX A B C D E for a given extension feature set. However as the extension feature sets between different PBXs A B C D E will not be the same it may not be possible to develop a common user interface UI . Accordingly a plug in application may be downloaded to the communication devices coupled to the network such as the mobile devices B C to extend the UI and to provide the communication device with the necessary SIP Application information on how to handle new features. This plug in is the Menu and Signalling Extension Plug in MSP . As will be understood the PAL PEL and MSP are all part of the Extensible Signalling Framework ESF .

With respect to the instant messaging services the MES may comprise an XMPP2SIMPLE Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol to SIP Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIP application to enable integration of SIP with an IM session. For example a voice call may be established over VoIP or over a traditional circuit switched medium directly from an IM session screen. The voice connection may be requested by either party in the IM session. As well as voice the XMPP2SIMPLE application may also interface SIMPLE SIP Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions based IM systems to the IM internal architecture of the mobile devices A B C.

The MES may use an XMPP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol based API Application Programming Interface over an IPe IP endpoint secured socket provided by the XMPP2SIMPLE Application to request that SIP functions be accessed. This API may provide any user identifications that are required and routing information to the VoIP gateway. The gateway might be the VoIP PBX D or it might be a VoIP enabled server. The SDP establishes a SIP session to the device A B C and a second to the gateway such as the PBX D . The RTP media flow is routed directly to the VoIP gateway such as the PBX D .

Consider a situation in which an IM session is in process between a first mobile device e.g. B and a second mobile device C. The session may use the enterprise specific IM protocol between the devices B C and an IM Proxy Server in the MES and the third party IM protocol between the IM Proxy Server and the IM server e.g. IM PBX A .

At some point in time either device B C may request that the session be converted into a voice connection. The MES IM Server requests over the XMPP based API that XMPP2SIMPLE set up a SIP based call. For each mobile device B C the XMPP2SIMPLE acts as a B2BUA setting up one SIP session with the mobile device B C using the ESSIP flows and a second session with the IM Server A using the IM Server A specific SIP. These connections are then manipulated to connect the RTP media flow between the two mobile devices B C. Communication may also be established between mobile devices A B C and other networked devices such as for example computer which may be equipped to provide voice communication for example using VoIP and electronic whiteboard via the Internet and telephones via the PSTN .

Alternatively a call may be established over circuit switched media. For example an IM session running on a WAN mobile device A may request the establishment of a voice connection. In this case the MES IM Server could request directly to the Fixed Mobile PBX E for a circuit switched call or through the SDP which would establish two circuit switched call legs one to each party via the PBX E.

The communication system may also provide for certain applications to interact directly with other application services e.g applications that provide media streaming capabilities such as e learning or MP3 video playback downloading and sharing. Consider a scenario in which an enterprise wide announcement is to be made. Here the announcement is stored in an MES service which proceeds to call out to all enterprise mobile devices A B C.

These services may require a multimedia session to be established between a server and the enabled ESSIP enabled devices A B C. In addition there are a number of other servers such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP servers location servers a database application or an extensible markup language XML application. These application services provide back end services such as directory authentication and billing services.

In this case the MES media application or server might again be configured to use an API to set up the multimedia session or to obtain information from the SDP . The SDP acts as a UAS controlling the session and setting the RTP or similar stream directly to the MES Media Server . Once the multimedia streaming session has finished the MES Media Server terminates the SIP session via an API call.

The communication system may also be configured with a voice mobility module such as the Voice Mobility Management system distributed by Ascendent Systems which may comprise software and hardware to offer voice mobility anchored at the network between WLAN and cellular networks. The system may offer enhancements such as single number in and out of the enterprise conferencing single voice mailbox etc.

The voice mobility module may use the SIP server through a CSTA interface that allows first party call control. The interface between the SDP and the PBX D E may be a SIP Trunk.

The SDP may interface to the MES for signalling to the device A B C and database support and to the application servers such as the gateway or PBX servers A B C D E for application support. This section shall describe in more detail how those interfaces are to be managed.

The SDP may interface to the MES through an ESSIP Connector a service that communicates directly with a Dispatcher. The ESSIP Connector terminates the GME protocol and is responsible for pushing the SIP signals to a SIP Server not shown over a TLS secured socket. This arrangement requires that a new content type be created for SIP and allows a new ESSIP service book to be pushed to a mobile device A B C.

On the other side of the SIP TLS session the SDP may also comprise a Unified Communications UC Server not shown . The UC Server executes the SIP applications and communicates to the gateway and PBX servers A B C D E MES IM Server IM server A and voice mobility module etc.

Any number of ESSIP Connectors may support access to a single UC Server the exact number being limited by the configuration of the components over hardware platforms. All configurations using a single UC Server must be connected to the same mobile device database domain.

Both the ESSIP Connector and the UC Server may read data for configuration from the database via an SDP MES Management Server using a web services interface. This component also offers the SDP administration UI.

The UC Server stores information on the MES database which is used at reset to configure the UC Services and users. The following items may be included in the basic server configuration SIP Realm SIP Domain Name SIP Server Address SIP Server Port SIP Server Transport Proxy Server Address Proxy Server Port and Proxy Server Transport.

The following items may also be included as part of the database per user SIP User Display Name SIP User ID SIP User Password SIP Realm SIP Registration Timeout SIP Local Port SIP RTP Media Port SIP Domain Name SIP Server Type SIP Server Address SIP Server Port SIP Server Transport Emergency Number SIP Secondary Server Type SIP Secondary Server Address SIP Secondary Server Port and SIP Secondary Server Transport.

The UC Server may also require notification from the database when an administrator adds a user into the system so that it can update the internal table without scanning the whole database .

The SDP Management Server SDP MS not shown may abstract the MES database from the SDP components and provides a user interface for administration purposes. The ESSIP Connector and the UC Server will both obtain configuration through the SDP BMS. As the users of UC Services will also be the general MES users then those configuration items that are specific to each user will require additions to existing user records.

The communications network is preferably also provided with a conference call controller module configured to facilitate and control conference calls between two or more parties. As will be discussed in greater detail below the conference call controller may comprise an application or other programming and is configured to coordinate the conference call functionality and to facilitate the exchange of voice and other media between conference call participants. The conference call controller may comprise conference application and conference services modules and may reside in or otherwise form part of the SDP .

Messages intended for a user of mobile device are initially received by a message server of LAN which may form part of the MES . Such messages may originate from any of a number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from a computer within LAN from a different mobile device not shown connected to wireless network or or to a different wireless network or from a different computing device such as computer or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure and possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

Message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by message server . One example of a message server is a Microsoft Exchange Server. In some implementations LAN may comprise multiple message servers . Message server may also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating steps in a method of facilitating a conference call between a plurality of communication devices in accordance with at least one embodiment is shown generally as . Additional details of some of the features described below in respect of the method may be described elsewhere in the present specification. Referring simultaneously to illustrated therein are schematic diagrams illustrating exemplary aspects of a conference call shown generally as implemented in accordance with the present disclosure.

In one embodiment at least some of the steps of the method are performed by a conference call application that executes and resides on the mobile device or the conference call controller or a combination of both. In variant embodiments the conference call application need not be a stand alone application and the functionality of the application may be implemented in one or more applications executing and residing on the controller or other computing device.

Method commences at Block in which a first primary communication device has been provided. For example mobile communication device B may be selected for use as a first primary communication device in a conference call as contemplated herein. Similarly a second primary communication device for example mobile communication device C may be provided Block . The conference call controller may also be provided Block .

The conference call session may then be initiated typically utilizing both SIP and RTP protocols as discussed above Block . A first control session as indicated by line in may be established between the conference call controller and the first primary communication device Block . Such control session may be in the form of a data signal in which conference parameter data relating to the conference call to be established may be exchanged between the controller and the first primary communication device . For example the conference parameter data may include the time of the conference call and the invited parties and their corresponding contact numbers or communication device identifiers. Information corresponding to the conference parameter data may be displayed on the display of the communication device or otherwise communicated to the user of the device e.g. via the speaker . As will be understood preferably the control session will be established in such a way as to securely identify the first primary communication device to the controller . For example the controller may obtain identification data from or otherwise utilize SIM to authenticate or partially authenticate the device . In some instances an identification code such as an access code or password may be requested by and or required to be received by the controller in order for the conference call user to be fully authenticated and permitted to participate on the call.

In some embodiments the extent of maintaining authentication within a session is based on certain predetermined conditions such as maintaining authentication of a control session for a predetermined amount of time e.g. using a timer . After such time or after a timer expires the control session with the communication device becomes de authenticated and would once again need to be authenticated i.e. re authenticated . In another example the authentication of the control session may terminate before session expiry based on moderator control either manually or automatically . This may require on the fly authentication of the first primary communication device should the control session be de authenticated for whatever reason.

In yet further embodiments authentication may be required for each or every command sent from the communication device over the control session .

In some instances the control session may be initiated by the communication device in order for the user of the communication device to set up and commence a conference call. Alternatively if the parameters of the conference call have been previously determined the controller may communicate with the communication device to establish the control session and take the other steps necessary to initiate the conference call in accordance with the previously determined conference call parameters as discussed below.

A media session as represented by line in between the first and second primary communication devices via the conference call controller may then be established Block . As will be understood the terms via or between in reference to sessions with the conference call controller are intended to refer broadly to situations in which the session or signal is operatively coupled to the controller but also is intended to refer to situations in which the session is established by but may not maintain a continuous connection to the controller . In some embodiments the controller may be programmed or otherwise configured to initiate a first communication leg to the first primary communication device such as by placing a telephone call to the first primary communication device and to initiate a second communication leg to the second primary communication device such as by placing a telephone call to the second primary communication device . The controller may be configured to utilize the mobile devices assigned MSISDN Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network number or assigned PIN number to initiate the communication legs. The two communication legs may then be linked by the controller .

While such media session may comprise a standard voice stream as may be established for typical voice telephony or other communications as will be understood the media session may comprise other types of media data signals for example for multimedia presentations or videophone applications . In some embodiments preferably the media session is encrypted using suitable encryption methods.

In some embodiments a second control session as indicated by line in may also be established between the conference call controller and the second primary communication device Block . Such control session may be in the form of a data signal in which conference parameter data relating to the conference call may be exchanged between the controller and the second primary communication device . Such control session may also be established prior to the establishing of the media session in Block .

In embodiments in which multiple control sessions e.g. are established between multiple communication devices one control session e.g. second control session may be designated as the moderator session . Typically the intended moderator s identity will be one of the parameters of the conference call data and may by default be assigned to a communication device initiating the conference call if appropriate . The communication device having the moderator control session may be provided with top level control over the conference call and amending its parameters including for example adding or removing parties as necessary or amending privilege levels or even assigning or delegating the moderator privileges. So for example if the communication device having the moderator control session assigns the moderator privileges to communication device the control session may shift to the second control session thereby providing the user of the second primary communication device with the moderator privileges to control the conference call.

Once the media session has been established users of the first and second primary communication devices may communicate with each other.

Referring now to consider a situation in which the first primary communication device is being charged long distance cellular fees which can be quite expensive . A first alternate communication device may be selected or otherwise provided Block . The user may decide to initiate a call transfer request Block . An options menu may be provided on the display of the communication device described in detail below with respect to . Such options menu will preferably be provided with the option for the user to initiate a transfer allowing the user to input or otherwise designate the proposed transferee communication device such as the first alternate communication device illustrated in . The transferee identification may comprise an MSISDN number a mobile device unique personal identification number a PBX number or a PBX extension access number. Such data identifying the transferee communication device is communicated to the controller together with the transfer request via the control session . In some other embodiments a default or predetermined device may be pre designated as the first alternate communication device .

The transfer request may then be authenticated or evaluated Block . For example if the user of the communication device has sufficiently high privilege levels the controller might be programmed or otherwise configured to permit and then initiate the transfer Block . Alternatively the request may be routed by the controller to the moderator s communication device via the moderator s control session and displayed on the device display . The moderator may then grant or deny such transfer permission by inputting data in some embodiments through the selection of menu options not shown which is received by the controller via the control session .

In some example embodiments Block includes the communication device determining whether the control session is still authenticated and if not performing additional authentication of the media session .

If the transfer request is approved or granted the controller may then be configured to extend the media session to the first alternate communication device Block . In some embodiments the controller may be programmed or otherwise configured to initiate a communication leg to the first alternate communication device such as by placing a telephone call to the first alternate communication device . Upon extending the media session to the first alternate communication device the media session to the first primary communication device may be terminated Block .

The first control session will preferably be maintained between the first primary communication device and the controller subsequent to the extension of the media session in Block and the termination of the media session to the first primary communication device in Block Block . An advantage of maintaining the first control session is that a measure of security is maintained despite the extension of the conference call to the first alternate communication device which may not be secure as the first control session via the first primary communication device authenticates the user of both devices . For example the first control session could act as a heartbeat to continuously exchange and authenticate a dynamic key or certificate between the controller and the first primary communication device in order to authenticate the user who is now presumably speaking on the first alternate communication device .

As will be understood if the first primary communication device and the first alternate communication device are each an embodiment of a mobile device then the enterprise specific transfer protocols for the LAN may be used in transferring the media session from the first primary communication device to the first alternate communication device . Alternatively if the alternate communication device is a PBX type of communication device then appropriate PBX protocols such as H.323 transfer protocols may be used to transfer the media session .

As will be understood while two primary communication devices were illustrated and described as participating in the conference call additional communication devices may participate in the conference call.

Reference is now made to which shows a user interface which may be used as a user input for providing conference call control functions shown as displayed on a display of one of the mobile devices e.g. the first primary communication device . In the embodiment shown the user interface is for example implemented by a conference call application resident on the mobile device for specifically communicating with the conference call controller . In some embodiments some or all of the functionality or user initiated commands are provided by the conference call controller .

As shown in the user interface includes a title bar a status icon an options menu and participant icons partially shown which represent the status of each participant in the conference call. An indicator such as a cursor is also shown for indicating which item s on the user interface are to be selected. A chat or instant message window is also shown which displays a message history of the participants in the present conference call. The status icon displays the present status of the conference call for example CC Active i.e. conference call active as shown.

The options menu includes a number of conference call control functions or commands to be sent to the conference call controller in accordance with some example embodiments. As shown the options menu includes user selectable options for Help View Conference Call CC History Hang Up Mute and Transfer . Other conference call options not shown would be understood by those skilled in the art. Some or all of the options may be displayed on the options menu depending on the particular application or current state of the scheduled conference call.

The functionality of Help View CC History Hang Up and Mute would be understood in the art and are not described in detail herein. If the Transfer option is selected at least some of the Blocks of the method are implemented by the mobile device and or the conference call controller . In some embodiments once the Transfer option is selected it is determined whether the control session is still authenticated or requires re authentication. This determining of authentication may be performed by either the mobile device the conference call controller or both in a manner described in detail above with respect to .

In some embodiments referring now to the user interface as a consequence of the Transfer option being selected displays a transfer request sub window which acts as an authentication interface. The transfer request sub window includes a user input field for inputting of the transferee identification in this example the terminating MSISDN use input field as shown. Should it be determined that the control session requires authentication or re authentication the transfer request sub window may also include a password user input field for inputting a password for authentication of the transfer request. The transfer request sub window also displays in read only mode the Originating MSISDN and the CC PBX Controller as shown.

The terminating MSISDN user input field and the password user input field may have default or predetermined information already loaded wherein the user may edit such information should different user inputs be desired. If authentication is not required the transfer request sub window may not include the password user input field and the mobile device continues to send the transfer request to the conference call controller assuming a terminating MSISDN has been provided.

When the user input fields are satisfactory the OK icon is selected which sends the transfer request over the control session . If the transfer request is not authenticated a request for authentication is sent including the password information . The authenticated transfer request can now be initiated as per Block .

Referring still to the selection of various options is not limited to being implemented by a specific application resident on the mobile device . In other example embodiments the specific hosting control options and corresponding options of the options menu may be communicated in real time by communication of data messages e.g. SIP messages from the conference call controller .

In some example embodiments rather than a user interface being used the mobile device is configured to automatically perform authentication when it is determined that the session is de authenticated. This may for example be performed by automatically re sending a stored password or encryption key renegotiating or regenerating another shared key etc.

As will also be understood while the communication system and embodiments described herein have been illustrated as utilizing SIP it should be understood that other protocols including those which may be developed in the future may be utilized for establishing and controlling sessions as contemplated herein.

The steps of the methods of facilitating a conference call in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein may be provided as executable software instructions stored on computer readable media which may include transmission type media.

In an example embodiment there is provided a method of facilitating transferring of conference call sessions from a primary communication device wherein a conference call controller is configured to establish a conference call session with the primary communication device and other communication devices. The method includes displaying a user interface on the primary communication device the user interface including a transfer option receiving a command selecting the transfer option sending a transfer request from the primary communication device to the conference call controller to link an alternate communication device within the conference call session and determining whether the transfer request requires authentication and if so displaying on the user interface an authentication interface for authentication of the transfer request.

In another example embodiment there is provided a communication device comprising a communication subsystem for communicating with a conference call controller wherein the conference call controller is configured to establish a conference call session with the communication device and other communication devices and a display for displaying a user interface on the communication device the user interface including a transfer option. The communication device is configured for receiving a command selecting the transfer option sending a transfer request from the communication device to the conference call controller to link an alternate communication device within the conference call session and determining whether the transfer request requires authentication and if so displaying on the user interface an authentication interface for authentication of the transfer request.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a system for facilitating transferring of conference call sessions between a plurality of communication devices the system comprising a conference call controller configured for establishing a control session with a first primary communication device the control session capable of being authenticated and not authenticated establishing a first media session with the first primary communication device establishing a second media session with a second primary communication device and linking the first media session and the second media session in a conference call session receiving a transfer request from the first primary communication device via the control session determining whether the transfer request requires authentication and if so performing authentication of the transfer request and establishing based on the authenticated transfer request an alternate media session between an alternate communication device and the conference call controller and linking the alternate media session within the conference call session.

The present disclosure has been described with regard to a number of example embodiments. However it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that other variants and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

