---

title: Method and apparatus for risk visualization and remediation
abstract: A method and apparatus provides techniques for providing complete solutions for role-based, rules-driven access enforcement. An embodiment addresses blended risk assessment and security across logical systems, IT applications, databases, and physical systems from a single analytic dashboard, with auto-remediation capabilities. Further, an embodiment provides capability and functionality for providing visual risk and event monitoring, alerting, mitigation, and analytics displayed on a geospatial map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08769412&OS=08769412&RS=08769412
owner: Alert Enterprise, Inc.
number: 08769412
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
This patent application is a continuation of PCT Application No. PCT US10 57485 filed Nov. 19 2010 which claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 263 284 Alert Enterprise filed Nov. 20 2009 the entirety of which are incorporated herein by their reference thereto.

This invention relates generally to the field of computer related methodologies for handling complex risk and security challenges of an enterprise. More specifically this invention relates to preventing detecting mitigating and responding to blended risks and threats i.e. risks and threats across different organizations within an enterprise.

Every industry has sensitive assets. For example some critical assets for utilities may be devices running in substations devices running in nuclear plants and so on. Some assets may be physical such as the above mentioned devices and some may be information technology IT systems. Another example of an asset is a logic controller that controls for example how much gas may flow through a pipe. Smart grids are another example of an asset.

Assets need to be protected from threat. Examples of areas of risk or threats include but are not limited to 

Thus it would be desirable to provide a system and method that has the capability to look across the board of assets belonging to different organizations e.g. within an enterprise and apply policies and rules across the board e.g. but not limited to across IT systems physical systems and industrial systems.

A method and apparatus provides techniques for providing complete solutions for role based rules driven access enforcement. An embodiment addresses blended risk assessment and security across logical systems IT applications databases and physical systems from a single analytic dashboard with auto remediation capabilities. Further an embodiment provides capability and functionality for providing visual risk and event monitoring alerting mitigation and analytics displayed on a geospatial map.

This section provides an overview of one or more embodiments for understanding the claimed subject matter. Further detailed discussions are presented in the sections that follow thereafter.

An embodiment provides a solution for Incident Management Command and Control Challenges such as but not limited to those presented below 

An embodiment provides an enterprise security apparatus and methodology that bridges an overlooked gap in enterprise security i.e. prevention and detection of cross enterprise threats by linking physical access and information technology IT security to ensure compliance with regulations and standards. An embodiment provides capabilities for visualizing previously undetectable threats and assists managers in remediating security risk across the enterprise.

An embodiment provides capabilities to monitor both access and behavior. For example an embodiment monitors the following 

An embodiment provides mechanisms for industry specific compliance such as for example but not limited to 

An embodiment integrates IT and physical security across diverse systems applications databases and geographically distributed assets. An embodiment provides a risk management capability that follows a three step process that aggregates blended threats from IT systems Physical Access Control Systems and Critical Control Systems to uncover previously undetectable threats and risks.

An embodiment allows corporations the ability to perform the following. It should be appreciated that such list is by way of illustration and is not meant to be limiting 

An embodiment of an alert enterprise system can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing an alert enterprise system and its components and shows external systems with which alert enterprise system is in communication according to an embodiment.

Alert enterprise system contains an adaptor framework that provides an open and pre defined set of data connectors connector types to gather data for each solution through the data controller. It also provides the ability for outgoing information though the service controller by enabling SMS Email or voice messages. The data may be collected through relational databases XML RSS PI Excel ERP applications i.e. Asset management Workforce management Outage management Network management and Customer Billing Geo and Custom data feeds. The frequency of the data updates may be modified through a design module. The data connectors are the gateways between the alert enterprise system and the underlying source systems such as ERP systems physical access systems control systems and other legacy systems. The connector framework does support various industry standard protocols and interfaces like Web Services HTTP TCP IP JDBC ODBC file interfaces natively built scripts and programming API s to extract the data from the source systems for Access Reviews Risk Analysis Controls Monitoring etc. The data may be synchronized from the source systems to alert enterprise system solutions in many ways. Some of such ways are but are not limited to a batch mode extracts the data in predefined frequency b real time connectivity from the source systems for on need basis look up for the data and c event mode in both push and pull methodologies depends on the need. Alert enterprise system may also support agent base e.g. install natively built APIs programs and agent less e.g. direct reads leveraging industry standard interfaces and protocols. The data may also sync up in full mode or incremental.

Alert enterprise system contains one or more applications as well as a common services platform . The set of one or more applications may contain a risk visualization remediation subsystem a user access certification subsystem an incident and management response subsystem a continuous controls monitoring subsystem a compliance automation subsystem an access control across domains subsystem and a privileged access monitoring subsystem .

Common services platform contains one or more risk analysis and correlation engines services and scripts and one or more adaptor framework components. In the embodiment common services platform contains a risk engine a policy and rules engine a controls risks and assets repository an events alerting and geospatial services and visualization automation and remedial action scripts . In the embodiment common services platform contains a messaging framework a connector framework an extraction framework and a meta data repository .

According to the embodiment some example systems of external systems with which alert enterprise system communications are IT systems physical control systems and industrial control systems . A couple of examples of IT system are SAP Waldorf Germany and Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. A couple of examples of physical control systems are imaging sensors and building controls systems. A couple of examples of industrial control systems are Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA systems and Distributed Control System DCS plant applications. It should be appreciated that such examples are illustrative only and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment of alert enterprise system from a marketing perspective can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing alert enterprise system and its components and shows external systems with which alert enterprise system is in communication according to an embodiment. In this embodiment alert enterprise system contains one or more subsystems that provide solutions for applications in the business sector solutions for infrastructure that may be critical and federal solutions as well as solutions for national defense.

As well the embodiment contains common services platform that contains one or more of the same engines repositories and scripts as shown in the description of which is not repeated here. Further common services platform contains a messaging framework a connector framework an extraction framework and a meta data repository as shown in .

An embodiment provides an architecture that supports an agnostic and adaptable nature of such system. One or more embodiments may be captured in one or more products examples of which are discussed hereinbelow. It should be appreciated that the particular products discussed hereinbelow are for illustrative purposes only and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides common services platform that provides and performs some of the underlying functionality of alert enterprise system . Particular components of alert common services platform are discussed in no particular order hereinbelow.

An embodiment allows integration with IT security automation such as but not limited to the following for example 

An embodiment allows integration with physical security and physical access control systems such as but not limited to the following 

An embodiment provides an engine that correlates data from diverse systems across the enterprise for rendering risk following the detection of blended threats such as for example but not limited to the following 

An embodiment provides an architecture that supports the convergence of IT security physical access controls and industrial control systems to uncover blended threats and can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing alert enterprise system and its relationships with multiple diverse systems sources of security related data according to an embodiment. Alert enterprise system contains a correlation engine that performs the following functions but is not limited to the following functions threat and fraud detection risk analysis and remediation policy enforcement and continuous monitoring. Alert enterprise system provides a process by which a user such as a representative of a particular alert enterprise system provides the definitions of particular risks threats and fraud . Further given the defined definitions such process provides for detecting the particular risks threats and fraud . As well such process provides for preventing the defined risks threats and fraud . Further in response to detecting the particular risks threats and fraud such process provides for responding to such particular risks threats and fraud .

Alert enterprise system is in communication with other ERP systems with IT security applications and with physical access control systems .

Also alert enterprise system is in communication with data repositories that store security also diverse data from data sources. Such data may include but are not limited to regulatory data security data utilities data industrial data logic controller data compliance data corporate IT data and other types of data from diverse organizations .

Thus alert enterprise system supports the convergence of IT security physical access controls and industrial control systems to uncover blended threats.

An integration framework is provided for integrating alert enterprise system to logical systems physical and control systems and meta data.

In an embodiment an Analysis and Correlation engine correlation engine not shown is provided within alert enterprise system that allows complex event processing on a spatial and temporal phenomenon. The correlation engine registers events along with user defined filters. As the user defined event is triggered the correlation engine starts the processing and automatically analyzes the event and the correlation of such event within a defined correlation matrix

In an embodiment an alert enterprise simulation engine not shown is provided. Processing planning and simulations are based on the alert enterprise simulation engine for predictive processing and analysis. Such alert enterprise simulation engine provides statistical analysis that may be used for financial and risk mitigation within geo context sensitive and interactive dashboards.

Alert enterprise system enables easy integration with various data sources in an enterprise. In an embodiment alert enterprise system enables users to view and analyze data in a security and risk management context by providing a visual analytics and by initiating the workflow and business intelligence and remedial action schemes and workflow processes.

It should be appreciated that the solutions that may be provided to a customer may be limitless as alert enterprise system may be only dependent upon the data it collects. In an embodiment alert enterprise system reads such data presents visualization of such data and through customer defined rules and requirements builds an RAS to help solve a specific business problem.

It should be appreciated that in such example and according to an embodiment alert enterprise system collects data from the following 

In accordance with an embodiment the data above are collected by alert enterprise system are seamlessly integrated and presented in visualization in a geo spatial canvas. A user may be then able to view such data in various layers assess the situation of geographic data at any location in real time be alerted e.g. by visual SMS email of a situation analyze the situation rubber band a specific location to perform what if analysis take automated remedial action and also file a complaint report to ensure regulatory compliance.

An embodiment provides a three tier architecture which may be based on JAVA technology. An embodiment can be understood with reference to a schematic diagram showing alert enterprise system in communication with other external systems. Alert Enterprise system may connect to different systems for example but not limited to SAP Applications physical access and surveillance systems control systems non SAP and legacy applications special applications and utility EAM and O M applications . System connects to these applications via connectors and extracts the data from underlying applications. Then the data are analyzed through risk assessment unifying security and compliance processes.

An embodiment provides a connector framework that provides adapters as part of a connector library for connection to various systems databases historians and web services. The adaptor framework supports the following 

In an embodiment alert enterprise system includes a series of Application Programming Interface API which specifies the data characteristics from the sources to ensure quick and easy integration with the system. Each of the APIs is categorized for each specific solution integration as follows. It should be appreciated that such list is for illustrative purposes and is not meant to be limiting.

Further data sources included in the connector library are listed below but are by no means limited by the list below. For example such list of data sources may be from integrating with third party and partner solutions. It further should be appreciated that such list grows as more data sources are integrated into alert enterprise system based on customer requirement.

Another exemplary embodiment of alert enterprise system can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing a particular enterprise architecture to which a particular implementation of alert enterprise system has been applied according to an embodiment. In particular a subsystem layer may contain one or more of the product modules or subsystems discussed hereinabove. In particular subsystem layer is shown to contain the following subsystems in this embodiment AlertInsight AlertCertify AlertAccess AlertMonitor AlertRoles AlertAction and AlertControl . Some of which subsystems are discussed in further detail hereinbelow. Further this embodiment contains a repository and engine level . Repository and engine level may contain the following engines or repositories risk engine compliance management policy engine controls and risk repository workflow and alert and event management . Alert enterprise system contains an integration framework that provides the messaging framework not shown connector framework extraction framework not shown and a meta data repository or framework not shown . also shown the external systems and resources such as IT resources or systems Physical access systems or physical control systems and industrial control systems .

As shown in AlertInsight may be used for rapid risk identification visualization remediation and role redesign. AlertCertify may be used for user and role recertification and reaffirmation. AlertAccess may be used for logical and physical access management on boarding and off boarding. AlertMonitor may be used for privileged user management and monitoring. AlertRoles may be used for cross systems role management and mining. AlertAction may be used for geo spatial monitoring and remediation of cross enterprise threats. AlertControls may be used for sustainable compliance with continuous controls monitoring.

It should be appreciated that an embodiment allows an enterprise from having too many silos to a streamlined architecture where a silo is an entity that is not well connected with another entity or silo. Too many silos can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing a plurality of entities of an enterprise that are not well connect. In contrast is a schematic diagram representing a solution that streamlines on boarding and off boarding and closes security gaps according to an embodiment. Some examples of silos are contractors human resources background checks and so on.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for rapid risk identification visualization remediation and role redesign referred to herein for convenience as AlertInsight.

Organizations need to manage risk out of their IT applications. While organizations spend a lot of time and effort securing the enterprise from outside threats it is also important to focus on the inside. Segregation of Duties SoD monitoring may help identify risks from insider malicious activity and even unintentional actions that may result in large potential losses. Traditional SoD remediation reports contain pages and pages of text and end up extending across 15 or 20 ERP application screens. IT security business teams and compliance analysts need to pour over reports and attempt to identify violations. These efforts are limited to one kind of business application or ERP system and are time consuming and costly.

In an embodiment AlertInsight provides a highly visual system solution with powerful graphical modeling capability to remediate risk and SoD violations from a common user interface in a single session without the need to traverse through dozens of applications screens. IT security compliance analysts and business managers may collaborate to arrive at the best remediation decision by visualizing the impact prior to applying remediation actions. With AlertInsight remediation teams may visualize SoD violations roles and related risks within the same context on the same screen.

In an embodiment AlertInsight enables alignment between business and IT by visualizing results from a common set of data. Business managers may understand the root causes of risk and take steps to remediate those risks without relying on IT. Consequently it reduces the time and effort IT has to spend on interpreting security and risk data in a form that can be consumed by business analysts.

In an embodiment AlertInsight includes data from multiple sources different ERP systems Identity and Access Management Corporate Directories HR systems and GRC applications such data displayed in a business friendly context. Risk and compliance analysts may assess risk across the board covering IT applications IT assets corporate assets critical assets and the physical access that users and administrators have to them. In an embodiment this holistic picture of risk may be the starting point from which all remediation activity takes place providing a more secure policy driven and compliant result.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . shows an AlertInsight subsystem according to an embodiment. Such subsystem contains a visual mapping and remediation layer a data aggregation and continuous monitoring layer and a sources of data layer . Such sources of data layer are for example and not limited to ERP systems Identity and Access Management IAM Provisioning and Roles Management systems and sources of threat detection. Such sources of threat may come from IT Security Automation and Physical Security SCADA Process Controls Systems and video surveillance systems.

An embodiment of a user interface can be understood with reference to . shows an exemplary user interface for rapid risk identification visualization remediation and role redesign according to an embodiment. In the embodiment drilling down on a risk item may show the details of processes transactions roles with permissions and the users all in one screen. Such subsystem may initiate remediation actions with a single click thus providing powerful actionable response to risks.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram for depicting a particular sequencing of actions from one entity to another for rapid risk identification visualization remediation and role redesign. In this embodiment a setup processor sends a create message to a connector s processor a configure message to an extractor s processor and a configure message to a scheduled job s processor . Scheduled jobs processor sends an extract message to extractor s processor and receives a message from extractor s processor . Extractor s processor sends a fetch user activity and risks message to an SAP LDAP CC processor which sends a response back to extractor s processor . Extractor s processor also sends an enrich and store message to a repository . A visualization processor sends to and receives from repository the messages . Visualization processor then causes a display message to execute. As well visualization processor causes a perform remediation and mitigation message to execute. Visualization processor also sends a store remediation and mitigation message to a database and receives a return message therefrom. In response visualization processor executes a reflect remediation and mitigation for all affected entities message . As well visualization processor sends a commit remediation and mitigation message to SAP LDAP CC processor and receives a return reply .

An embodiment provides but is not limited to particular benefits for but not limited to customers as follows 

Recent rogue trader and insider breaches involving losses exceeding hundreds of millions of dollars have highlighted the lack of oversight when it comes to reviewing who has access to highly critical applications within the organization. The risks are huge and threaten the viability of the enterprise. Additionally regulations standards and best practice frameworks are continuously being updated with more stringent access review policies and varying rules on how often user access and roles need to be reviewed. Highly critical roles such as treasury functions may need to be reviewed weekly. The most prevalent way of addressing this even in large organizations is via spreadsheets and face to face meetings in a war room environment. Not exactly the best way to conduct business.

An embodiment provides a highly visual system solution with powerful graphical modeling capability to completely automate monitor and track the numerous re affirmation projects that risk and compliance analysts IT security and business managers may have to complete. Additionally reaffirmation tasks are set up as individual projects with business and IT stakeholders identified. An embodiment automates the scheduling the frequency and the levels of workflow within the application. The embodiment may provide value in highly regulated industries such as utilities and financial services as well as critical infrastructure and essential services.

Traditional Segregation of Duties SoD utilities and Access Management applications have focused on just user access re affirmation generally providing a one size fits all solution. Managing risk across the enterprise requires not only assessing user access but examining roles. To truly determine who has access to these systems and monitor their activity it is essential to link the physical access to the logical access and provide real time visibility into background checks certifications and training.

It should be appreciated that an embodiment of a manager for re affirmation relies on its underlying technology to aggregate previously undetectable risks by collecting blended threats from IT Systems Physical Access Controls Systems and Production Control Systems. Such subsystem provides a complete risk analysis and provides roles based dashboards to reviewers administrators auditors and risk managers with added capability of remediating risk such as with a single click.

An embodiment of a re affirmation process can be understood with reference to . is a flow diagram showing automated scheduled job information and administrator information being input into a request creation processor. Request creation processor sends data to a risk analysis processor which processes the data and then makes the processed data available to a manager. The manager or manager subprocess determines appropriate role and business ownership. Such role and business ownership data is compared with security data by a security subprocess which then provisions the request for access to IT applications or systems and physical systems. Thus an embodiment provides a configurable solution with multi level workflow that extends beyond user access to include re affirmation for roles assets controls and physical access including but not limited to certifications.

It should be appreciated that an embodiment provides a highly visual system solution with powerful graphical modeling capability to automate monitor and track the numerous re affirmation projects that risk and compliance analysts IT security and business managers may have to complete. Additionally re affirmation tasks are set up as individual projects with business and IT stakeholders identified. The embodiment automates the scheduling the frequency and the levels of workflow within the application.

An embodiment of a manager for re affirmation can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen shot showing the powerful role modeling capabilities that include visual simulation of risks and the ability to add or remove transactions related to that role and see the resulting impact.

An embodiment of a remediation manager provides a highly visual system solution with powerful graphical modeling capability to remediate risk and SoD violations from a common user interface in a single session without the need to traverse through dozens of applications screens. IT security compliance analysts and business managers can collaborate to arrive at the best remediation decision by visualizing the impact prior to applying remediation actions. With such subsystem remediation teams may visualize SoD violations roles and related risks within the same context on the same screen.

An embodiment provides a highly visual software solution with powerful graphical modeling capability to remediate risk and SoD violations from a common user interface in a single screen session. The embodiment promotes promoted alignment between business and IT functions and includes data from multiple sources different ERP systems Identity and Access Management Corporate Directories HR systems and GRC applications displayed in a business friendly context.

An embodiment for remediation can be understood with reference to . According to the embodiment a user may drill down on a risk item which may show the details of processes transactions roles with permissions and the users in one screen. The embodiment may initiate remediation actions with a single click thus providing powerful actionable response to risks.

An embodiment provides particular processes for rapid risk identification visualization remediation and role redesign such as AlertInsight subsystem in a story board presentation as follows. It should be appreciated that the following is to be illustrative only and is not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides a logon interface to the end user consistent with other applications of alert enterprise system . A customizable application homepage is provided that provides a dashboard view on risks and a list of any outstanding tasks. An Interactive Role Details Visualization screen is provided that visually displays risks associated with roles users and assets. A SAP Role Representation Technical View is provided that provides a default technical view of transactions that form part of the role and the user that has the role. A SAP Role Relationships Business View is provided that simplifies the complex technical definitions into business friendly text for assimilation. A SAP Role Relationship Actionable Menu is provided that provides the ability to execute tasks on the role from the interactive screen. An Actionable Risk Analysis screen is provided root cause analysis can be performed for highlighted risk and other associated actions like add mitigation control remove user from role can also be performed from this screen. A Risk Analysis screen is provided that shows that the risk analysis indicates the cause of risk due to two transactions inherent in the role being analyzed. A Risk Remediation view is provided where the user may remediate the risk identified e.g. by removing the transactions from the Role being analyzed. A confirmation of the risk remediated and current risk status is provided. The visual may be changed to reflect dotted lines to indicate completed risk remediation. A User Analysis View is provided. Any user can be searched from within the application for access any relevant risks or other user information. A User to Corporate Assets view is provided. Such view provides detailed view of all corporate assets owned by the user. A User to System Access View is provided. Such view provides detailed view of system accesses of the user. A User to Access Detailed View is provided that offers a drill down level view of the system access. A User Supplemental Information view is provided that provides additional information on the user being analyzed from corporate directories. A User to Role within Systems view is provided where associated roles of a user profile may identify a role with inherent risk. A Risk Mitigation view is provided that is used for mitigating risk on account of the role interactively. As well a view is provided that shows that completed risk mitigation reflects the highlighted changes on the roles of the user. A reports view is provided for out of the box reports on risks roles users and related accesses.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for user and role recertification and reaffirmation referred to herein for convenience as AlertCertify.

An embodiment provides particular processes for user and role recertification and reaffirmation such as AlertCertify subsystem in a story board presentation as follows. It should be appreciated that the following is to be illustrative only and is not meant to be limiting.

Subsystem provides a logon interface to the end user consistent with other applications and subsystems of alert enterprise system . An embodiment provides a customizable application homepage that provides a dashboard view on outstanding tasks and a pictorial view of the progress indicators. A setup screen defines reaffirmation projects their type owner schedule. Such screen provides the set up options on a reaffirmation project. A project may span multiple systems and may be of different type. Project Type definition determines the additional attributes associated with the reaffirmation project. Scope definition enables addition of filters and exceptions for project creation. The display options available to the approver for any request are configurable from the set up screens. Scheduling and workflow enablement for the reaffirmation projects are also completed from the set up screens. The setup screen enables the user to associate desired deadline with each process name and modify templates for notifications. A confirmation upon successful creation of a project provides the user the ability to move to the next task. A reaffirmation request provides the roles owned by the approver to be reviewed. It also has a count of the users and status pertaining to the review of each role. The detailed role view from the request displays the attributes users and risks associated with the role being reviewed. An expanded attribute view displays the transactional attributes linked to the role. Each of the attributes provides an actionable icon to approve or deny the attributes on the role. Each of the attributes give the approver the ability to add a note against the action performed for the attribute e.g. this is at a group level and a line item level. The users expanded view indicates the individuals that have access to the role being reaffirmed. A progress indicator reflects overall completion status on the reviews done on the request. Subsystem provides the ability to save the actions taken as a draft or submit a completed request. A confirmation of the submission of the request is displayed to the approver to complete the action. Reaffirmation of the users as part of the request may provide a tabular view on users roles and may display a review status. Subsystem provides a graphical representation of the users that form part of the request. The interactive visualization of the request displays risks and roles linked to the user being reaffirmed. Upon review of the request interactively subsystem updates the review status for the corresponding user. A detailed grid user view is provided that lists risks associated with the roles and accesses of the user. A confirmation of the submission of the request is displayed to the approver to complete the action.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for logical and physical access management on boarding and off boarding referred to herein for convenience as AlertAccess.

It has been found that the world never stops turning and neither does the clock. Around the world around the clock business runs on IT. Securing business means securing the underlying IT infrastructure the applications and the systems they run on. Organizations need employees partners and customers to access applications right now to get their jobs done. Customer information must be secured privacy must be protected and corporate assets secured. This may mean tracking not only who has access to business systems but who has physical access to critical facilities and corporate assets. Threats are everywhere and risks abound.

Further it has been found that current methodologies look for risk after provisioning users. Such technique is considered to be like closing the barn door after the horse has bolted.

It further has been found that more regulations require more oversight and of course more ever changing rules. Information Security professionals need to worry about insider threats as much if not more than attacks from the outside. Figuring out the balance between how much access is enough and making sure the job gets done may be difficult. Throw in compliance with regulations and corporate policies on top of that. User provisioning for hundreds and sometimes thousands of employees across multiple enterprise systems may make the task un scalable.

Access for HR systems Active Directory ERP systems and Business Critical applications is being handled in silos such as those depicted in . In the current regulatory environment auditors are more meticulous and are uncovering many kinds of control violations. Organizations are under more pressure than ever before to manage risks from user access.

An embodiment provides a risk based user access management and provisioning system for providing such solutions. An embodiment such as subsystem AlertAccess may analyze risk across applications in multiple domains that include IT Systems Physical Access Control Systems and Process Control Systems to detect and monitor risks prior to enabling user access.

An embodiment utilizes a roles based rules driven framework for access management. Organizations can realize substantial cost savings and efficiencies through reduced audit costs reduced time to compliance. The embodiment is architected to take advantage of existing Segregation of Duties SoD engines as well as Identity and Access Management systems for ERP applications and provide an enterprise view for access control exposure across the enterprise.

Referring to it can be understood that an embodiment may analyze risk across multiple domains that include IT Systems Physical Access Controls and Process Control Systems prior to enabling access.

An embodiment of alert enterprise system provides a unique risk management capability that aggregates blended threats from IT systems Physical Access Control Systems and Critical Control Systems and uncovers previously undetectable risks. By analyzing and correlating all networked access events and integrating data from HR applications the embodiment may ensure that critical infrastructure access is denied for those who would pose an intentional or unintentional threat.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen showing five roles to be added. Two are of physical type for a facility badging system two are of logical control type for a plant distributed control system and the last is of logical type for an ERP system.

An embodiment provides particular capabilities for AlertAccess such as but not limited to the following 

An embodiment provides particular processes for logical and physical management onboarding and offboarding such as AlertAccess subsystem in a story board presentation as follows. It should be appreciated that the following is to be illustrative only and is not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides a User Self Service Screen that presents representations of available options for request and use categories. A User Self Service Access Request Form is provided that provides a detailed user access request form with customizable fields. A Resources Selection Page Requestor View is provided that provides a representation of available resources to obtain access from and the ability to select the profile based on any other user or available categorization. A view for Resource selection and modeling from desired profile is provided that enables the requestor to choose a desired user to mimic access with other advanced options and available categories. A user request summary screen is provided that allows the user to validate with a summary and view the contents of the request prior to final submission. A view a request queue is provided that displays the requests in various stages of the workflow with their unique identifiers and associated status. An approver view of a submitted request is provided that allows the approver to be presented with an itemized view of the contents of the request to ease the approval process. A view is provided for the listing of risks associated with granting access per request. The screen lists the risks linked to the granting of access per request. A view is provided for the listing of mitigating controls for identified risks. The approver is presented with the associate mitigation control to the identified risk. A view is provided for presenting evaluation of risks associated with request. The evaluate risk tab analyses possible risks associated with the request and presents them to the approver for further analysis. An Approver Manager view of requests is provided. The Approver Manager has a summary view of the requested resources that belong to this request. A Policy Maintenance Screen is provided. Policies enforce rules onto the provisioning process in an automated manner and allow for customizing attributes enforced thereby. A view for Policy Detailed Definitions is provided. Policies created may be enforced and prioritized based on execution of rules inherent within the policy. A Workflow Process Designer view is provided. For example a drag and drop workflow enablement tool is used to set the process on ease of use. A view of listing of process configurations available out of the box is provided. A pre defined set of process configurations that exist within the application as listed. A Workflow Rules view is provided. Out of the box workflow rules give the ability to add modify or delete the applicability parameters for policy enforcement. A Rule Definition Screen is provided. The rule definition view provides the ability to identify applicability and additional attributes. A Reports Capability view is provided. Subsystem provides out of the box reports and provides custom reports development as part of configuration.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for privileged user management and monitoring referred to herein for convenience as AlertMonitor.

What do You do when the Very People Entrusted with Running Your Most Critical Systems and Applications are Turning to the Dark Side 

An embodiment provides an AlertMonitor subsystem that provides the ability to give administrators or technicians highly privileged access for pre set duration to conduct emergency response to incidents presently occurring. During this special access period all tasks are monitored analyzed and logged ensuring complete visibility and transparency. When the tasks are complete the normal restrictions to access are automatically restored while avoiding potential high impact vulnerabilities. The subsystem provides an innovative solution that extends the risk analysis of IT access to include Physical Access Control Systems PACS as well as video surveillance. Such system provides a more complete picture of systems applications facilities and critical assets that a privileged user has touched while they have enhanced access.

In an embodiment subsystem provides a privileged user management subsystem that includes but is not limited to the following 

It has been found that it is no longer sufficient to monitor just IT access alone. Real world incidents don t occur in IT and non IT silos. Events that occur in any one domain by themselves may appear completely innocent. When correlated with physical security events or changes in critical processes may paint a more sinister picture.

An embodiment provides subsystem which provides a system solution that monitors privileged access across enterprise and legacy applications and then extends the correlation of IT access to physical access controls as well as video surveillance.

An embodiment of a privileged user management and monitoring system can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen showing how a user may track and log privileged access for IT applications as well as physical access to facilities and critical assets thus providing a complete risk posture across many applications. In particular shows a list of events that took place during an individual s privileged access session. High risk items are automatically identified. The embodiment allows drilling down into particular events.

According to an embodiment AlertMonitor subsystem is a multi domain multi platform privileged user management application. It enables organizations to automate the monitoring of individuals entrusted with the most critical access in the organization. Auditors and regulators have stepped up the focus on closing this gap. AlertMonitor subsystem enforces the least privilege principle in an organization and ensures business run with minimal risk even if privileged critical access is used to in an operational environment. The application delivers compliance with various regulations and monitoring of supervisory access across IT and physical access controls systems.

An embodiment provides best practice recommendations to reduce insider threat and provides the underlying alert enterprise system and subsystems to perform such best practices. Such best practices include but are not limited to the following 

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for cross systems role management and mining referred to herein for convenience as AlertRoles. In an embodiment AlertRoles subsystem provides intelligent role lifecycle management.

An embodiment provides techniques that help organizations manage roles and entitlements including their definition modeling and lifecycle management for various resources including ERP applications legacy systems physical badge access systems and control systems. AlertRoles subsystem seamlessly integrates with SAP Oracle and other enterprise applications based on a core understanding of each intrinsic security model.

In an embodiment AlertRoles subsystem provides a comprehensive intelligent role lifecycle management application that includes 

It has been found that managing roles within the enterprise manually is a costly and time consuming process that can cost millions of dollars. These processes are difficult to scale and the organization ends up with a proliferation of roles that spin out of control jeopardizing compliance and security. Added to the cost and complexity is the burden on IT during internal and external audit periods.

An embodiment streamlines the management of roles and eliminates the need to manage and audit access for each individual user. Access management processes may be automated assisting with the entire onboarding and offboarding process particularly during the assignment of resources and access to critical systems and assets.

An embodiment enables role mining across multiple brand enterprise applications identity and access management systems as well as GRC and directory services. Creating roles based on business requirements current roles and enterprise policies enables the management of access in a more efficient secure and compliant manner.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen for modifying a role according to an embodiment. A details panel presents and receives input about particular details about particular roles. A steps panel is shown which lists a series of steps that are determined that a user should perform. Shown is the first step is selected i.e. Attributes. Details about the Attributes step are presented in the third panel. For example it is shown that the role sub type is business. As another example it is shown that role level is high. Thus shows that AlertRoles subsystem features a role repository that contains role definitions. With powerful search capability even thousands of roles may be reviewed and managed. Roles may be modified based on pre defined attributes policies and relationships.

In an embodiment AlertRoles subsystem helps organizations manage roles and entitlements including their definition modeling lifecycle management etc. for various resources including ERP applications legacy systems physical badge access systems and control systems. AlertRoles subsystem seamlessly integrates with SAP and Oracle based on a core understanding of each intrinsic security model.

An embodiment of AlertRole subsystem can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing an automated schedule to kick off role affirmation and or certification according to an embodiment. In response to the automated schedule to kick off role affirmation and or certification workflow routing requests for particular managers e.g. Manager and Manager and role owners e.g. Role Owner and Role Owner are initiated.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for geo spatial monitoring and remediation of cross enterprise threats referred to herein for convenience as AlertAction.

In an embodiment AlertAction subsystem provides continuous monitoring and automated incident response.

As the number of regulations grows exponentially so do the reporting requirements for fraud intrusions and security incidents. Individuals and groups are mounting organized campaigns that target IT systems Physical Access Systems and Control Systems. Companies that just monitor IT incidents without taking physical access and control system security into account are leaving themselves exposed to huge risks.

In conjunction with alert enterprise system AlertAction subsystem monitors and reports on blended threats that exist across these domains and allows organizations to provide a coordinated response.

In an embodiment AlertAction subsystem combines risk analysis continuous monitoring geo spatial scene analysis fraud detection and real time remedial action scripts to provide a visual command and control application for unfolding incidents.

AlertAction subsystem immediately enhances the protection of high value business applications critical infrastructure installations defense and intelligence application and legacy applications where it is important to monitor who has access to critical applications and what they are doing with that access. An embodiment provides Remedial Action Strategies RAS that provide policy compliant actions to incident responders.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen showing six views about particular security aspects for a particular individual according to an embodiment. For example the top left view shows current alerts. The window to the right shows a pie chart of compliance violations. The following view to the right shows the current risk status is comparison to an average risk status. The bottom left view shows risks by assets e.g. a list of critical assets. The next view to the right shows violations by compliance and level. The last view at the bottom right shows a geo spatial view of assets where such assets depict a particular level of risk.

Thus as can be shown in AlertAction subsystem may provide information to situation managers in security as well as operational roles via configurable roles based dashboards that include risk compliance and incident information. Geospatial capabilities automatically pin point the location of the incident and provide drill down capability for optimum response.

In an embodiment AlertAction subsystem provides geo spatial monitoring and remediation of cross enterprise threats serious acts of sabotage terrorism fraud and theft etc. The system solution offers capabilities to co relate seemingly innocent events and activities to detect real threats and risks while providing powerful alerting and automated RAS for decisive action.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . shows a sample screen shot of a physical substation that is defined as a critical asset in a utility network. As can be understood from AlertAction subsystem may identify a physical intrusion incident occurring at the substation. In an embodiment AlertAction subsystem overlays this facility on Google Maps by Google Mountain View Calif. to automatically locate the source of the threat.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . shows a sample screen shot of a model room of a facility overlaid by a video view of the actual room and the activity therein. Situation managers may zoom inside the facility and view a model of the control room that has cameras and door locks etc. set up as smart tags in the software. Clicking on the camera icon pulls in live video from the surveillance system allowing managers to verify the incident and then remotely lock doors while informing first responders or law enforcement of the incident underway.

An embodiment provides particular processes for geo spatial monitoring and remediation of cross enterprise threats such as AlertAction subsystem in a story board presentation as follows. It should be appreciated that the following is to be illustrative only and is not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides a summary listing of all active alerts. A line level item detail view provides tasks associated with the particular alert. Remediation scripts associated with the alerts can be pre configured to execute at a specified time or trigger based on a particular event. The line level summary of the task associated with the alert is actionable subsystem also provides the user an ability to create a new task to associate with this alert. A live video feed provides the responder crucial information to determine the nature of alert and take further action or to reject the alert to take no further steps. Subsystem provides the user the status of completion of each remediation script item. A geo spatial view of the alert is also provided by the application as part of the executable tasks. Drill down geo spatial feed gives the responder a complete scenario view on the alert. Subsystem gives a visual interface to the risk that is detected and provides actionable tasks to the responder of the alert. Subsystem provides a single interface by connecting the CCTV camera installed in the sabotaged zone of the location to make meaningful decisions. Zoom capability is provided. Subsystem provides the ability of the responder to initiate a lockdown of the zone to isolate the incident and to contain cascading damage.

An embodiment provides an exemplary subsystem for sustainable compliance with continuous controls monitoring referred to herein for convenience as AlertControls.

An embodiment provides controls documentation testing and compliance computer implemented subsystems.

According to an embodiment AlertControls subsystem provides an intuitive and effective automated compliance program that can scale to monitor and test controls for cross enterprise processes. Built in controls covering multiple regulations standards and frameworks reduce costs and streamline compliance by eliminating a multitude of point solutions and duplicate controls testing. With AlertControls subsystem organizations may automate controls testing and deliver workflow based remediation capabilities. AlertControls subsystem extends beyond IT into the enterprise to include controls from Physical Access Control Systems and Industrial Control Systems to correlate blended threats detect fraud and provide unprecedented protection from sabotage and malicious insider threats.

It should be appreciated that organizations are facing a crushing burden as they try to comply with increasing regulations and more intensive audits. Many regulations require that risk assessments include controls beyond IT. Documenting controls is an essential step but it only provides a compliance snapshot in time leaving too much room for error and potential for corporations to miss possible fraud or serious mistakes that could ruin corporate brand or reputation in addition to revenue losses and fines.

Thus an embodiment provides automation of the compliance process. With AlertControls subsystem companies may conduct multiple assessments simultaneously test controls across multiple regulations and frameworks including ISO 27001 27002 NIST SP800 53 SOX HIPAA NERC CIP CFATS PCI DSS etc. automate human response via e surveys eliminate duplicate testing and leverage built in configurable workflow to adapt to existing structures and business processes.

It should be appreciated that with AlertControls subsystem organizations can perform the following but are not limited to performing the following 

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . shows a sample screen shot of how users are allowed to select compliance frameworks from multiple authoritative sources when testing controls delivering a continuous compliance automation solution. shows a compliance framework tab is selected. Particular details are presented. For example the control status is shown to be active. As another example the control type is shown to be access. As a third example the trigger type is shown to be time based.

According to an embodiment AlertControls subsystem is an enterprise level system that allows companies to conduct multiple assessments simultaneously test controls across multiple regulations include human response via e surveys and automate testing of controls and leverage built in configurable workflow to adapt to existing organizational structures and business processes.

As can be understood from AlertControls subsystem provides continuous control monitoring across multiple regulations.

An embodiment provides particular processes for sustainable compliance with continuous controls monitoring such as AlertControls subsystem in a story board presentation as follows. It should be appreciated that the following is to be illustrative only and is not meant to be limiting.

Subsystem provides components of the risk library and displays such components on a screen from defining controls the associated components and testing of the controls. The entities list on the screen are related and may be associated with one another and to the controls defined by the entity. Subsystem provides for operational and reporting flexibility. Subsystem provides an organization setup screen that allows the entities to define the hierarchical structure of their organization as it pertains to their framework. Subsystem provides a process setup screen that allows the entities to define the hierarchical structure of their business or IT or any other processes as it pertains to their framework. An objective setup screen is provided that allows the entities to define the hierarchical structure of their business objectives or goals associated with processes and projects or controls. A compliance framework setup screen is provided for defining regulations mandated for the entity or any desired compliance framework and used for associated with any of the attributes. A process setup screen is provided for the components of the risk library to be displayed from defining controls the associated components and testing of the controls. A controls search screen is provided for displaying the components of the risk library from defining controls the associated components and testing of the controls. The components of the risk library are further displayed in a controls listing screen from defining controls the associated components and testing of the controls. As well components of the risk library are further displayed in a controls definition screen from defining controls the associated components and testing of the controls. Subsystem provides a control set definition screen. Such subsystem gives the ability to group the controls to create a control set such feature enables batch execution of automated controls. A scheduling test of controls screen is provided such screen gives the ability to select from available set of controls to execute operation of the controls. A scheduling of controls screen is provided for testing controls based on pre set timeframes or manually scheduled giving flexibility to auditors and control owners to verify controls on an ad hoc basis. A test steps creation screen is provided for manual testing of controls. Test steps are created to help control testers to use a guided procedure to execute controls testing. A test plan creation screen is provided to create test plans that aggregate test steps and associated them with controls that are being tested. An automated controls testing screen is provided for rule definition. Rule definition is a highly flexible feature that gives the ability to define conditions and execute rules time based or event based. Automated controls are tested with such rules. A home page of the user is provided that is customizable with configurable dashboards and lists the tasks that the user is assigned to perform. A test plan task detail screen is provided that to display assigned test plans on the home page of the control owners. Detailed plan execution steps are presented from the homepage upon clicking the task item. A dashboards setup screen is provided for presenting drill down dashboards. Such dashboards may be executed for control failures based on associated parameters. A dashboard drill down screen is provided that generates a report on the cause of control failures. Further the details of the failed control may be displayed to the test step level such reports may be exported to different formats such as pdf excel or word formats.

An embodiment provides a holistic risk and vulnerability assessment system solution referred to herein as AlertInterceptor subsystem that can identify access risks such as Segregation of Duties Critical Access Over Access Super user access etc. across various ERPs IT Applications Facility Access Systems and Assets. AlertInterceptor deliver configurable rule sets that can be customized to key business applications to discover violations and generate alerts to decision makers. The rules based environment guarantees that changes to the underlying applications can be accommodated with simple rule changes.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing particular detect prevent and respond step process to provide a continuous risk management process according to an embodiment.

It should be appreciated that AlertInterceptor subsystem Identifies access risks such as segregation of duties SoD critical access and Super User administrator access across multiple ERPs IT applications control systems PI servers and physical access systems.

An embodiment provides a multi regulatory compliance system solution for managing risks reducing complexity and lowering costs.

Even in the face of challenging economic times companies have to meet their regulatory compliance obligations just to stay in business. As the number of regulations are continuing to grow and the cost pressures mount auditors are getting more insistent on conducting complete assessments that include processes people IT assets and applications to evaluate risk. Dealing with compliance in silos as an afterthought just doesn t work.

Executives are challenged with responsibility for compliance but they lack visibility into the violations or compliance gaps at the business or IT level. AlertEnterprise delivers a compliance management solution leveraging its risk analysis engine that can look across existing enterprise applications critical business applications security automation tools and industrial control systems to aggregate information and conduct a true cross enterprise risk analysis. Additionally AlertEnterprise is the only solution that extends beyond just risk assessment to provide complete visual remediation of control violations and the ability to mitigate the risk.

It should be appreciated that alert enterprise system provides Common Control and Risk Repository CCRR maps controls from multiple standards and regulations to a common framework eliminating duplicate testing This reduces time to compliance by 70 and reduces audit costs by 30 or more.

Most modern day business processes now run on IT systems. A key part of the securing the business is testing the underlying IT controls. This means application security operating system hardening benchmarks checking configuration management patch management and network level security. Many standards and best practice frameworks have evolved that provide a standardized set of General Computing Controls GCC . alert enterprise system can pull in control results from security automation like vulnerability scanners CMDBs SIEMs Integrated Security Managers e.g. Symantec ESM and McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator and DLP systems. Combining the test results from security automation tools that check for security gaps and vulnerabilities with control results from evaluation of business processes risk delivers the most comprehensive view of risk and compliance across the organization.

Regulations standards and frameworks from authoritative sources include ISO 27001 ISO 27002 Sarbanes Oxley NIST SP800 HIPAA GLBA NERC CIP CFATS PCI and many others. Alert enterprise system includes e survey capability for human response and attestation as well as multi level workflow to automate the survey gathering and assessment process. An embodiment can be understood with reference to .

Alert enterprise system provides a compliance management system solution that works with existing enterprise applications security automation tools and critical business applications to aggregate information and conducts a true cross enterprise risk analysis. Alert enterprise system Compliance Management system solution normalizes business level controls across multiple regulations standards and frameworks and combines them with automated General Computer Control GCC test results to deliver the most comprehensive view of risk.

An Example of alert enterprise system NERC CIP compliance system solution showing violations is shown in . is a sample screen shot of the compliance solution showing violations according to an embodiment.

An embodiment provides a risk repository and control document particular design. An embodiment of a risk based approach using a six NP model can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing a conceptual model view of how risk may affect and have influence over various aspects of an enterprise s assets. For example risk may affect an enterprise s projects that may include auditing processes . Risk may affect a compliance framework and its various processes. Risk may affect an enterprise s general and overall processes . Risk may affect an enterprise s objectives and goals . Risk may affect the organizations of an enterprise including the products services ecosystems partners etc. of the enterprise.

An embodiment for risk and control documentation can be understood with reference to . is a schematic diagram showing a three pronged architecture for risk and control documentation according to an embodiment. A control processor is in communication with a risk processor and repository which is in communication with risk processor for sending messages thereto. Control processor also sends messages to a function processor a monitoring processor and a verification processor each of which may send respective messages to an owners processor a scheduling processor and other processors collectively . As well function processor is in communication with a function library that contains SOD rules . Monitoring processor is in communication with a rule library that contains event correlation rules . Verification processor is in communication with a verification library that contains survey question and answer data and test cases data .

An embodiment for report repository and registry can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen shot showing available reports according to an embodiment. In the particular sample a reports tab is selected and four views of available reports are presented. One view shows a partial list of reports that reflect Role Analytics . Another view shows a list of the Top ten 10 Reports . Another view shows a partial list of reports related to User Analytics . Another view shows a list of reports related to Custom Analytics . It should be appreciated that the above particular views are by way of example only and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides a graphical and summary report which can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen shot of a graphical representation of a particular report Active Users with No Access according to an embodiment. In this example a top panel is presented that displays the filtered parameters chosen or other related information. The bottom panel displays tabular data as well as data presented in a pie chart and a histogram. It should be appreciated that the particular details displayed are by way of example only and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides information at a detailed level that can be accessed by a user by drilling down to a detailed report. An embodiment can be understood with reference to . is a sample screen shot of a particular drill down report for roles according to an embodiment. In this particular example the all roles view is selected . A particular list of seven roles is presented . As well for each role the following attributes are displayed a name attribute a description attribute a type attribute and a status attribute . It should be appreciated that the particular details displayed are by way of example only and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides an exemplary fabric design as shown below in Table A. It should be appreciated that such particular details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides a particular SAP HR implementation some details of which are shown in Table B hereinbelow. It should be appreciated that such details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides an exemplary end user form implementation as shown below in Table C. It should be appreciated that such particular details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides an exemplary risk analysis implementation as shown below in Table D. It should be appreciated that such particular details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides an exemplary provisioning implementation as shown below in Table E. It should be appreciated that such particular details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

An embodiment provides an exemplary reports audit trials implementation as shown below in Table F. It should be appreciated that such particular details are by way of example and are not meant to be limiting.

In an embodiment a risk visualization and remediation subsystem is provided that includes AlertInsight subsystem integration framework risk engine and controls and risk repository . In an embodiment risk engine may include policy engine . Further details of the above cited components are described hereinabove.

In an embodiment a situational awareness and video surveillance subsystem is provided that includes AlertAction subsystem workflow processor alert and event management processor integration framework and risk engine . In an embodiment risk engine may include policy engine . Further details of the above cited components are described hereinabove.

In an embodiment an active policy enforcement subsystem is provided that includes policy engine controls and risk repository risk engine and workflow processor . Further details of the above cited components are described hereinabove.

In an embodiment a policy rule engine subsystem is provided that includes policy engine controls and risk repository risk engine and alert and event management processor . In an embodiment risk engine may include policy engine . Further details of the above cited components are described hereinabove.

In an embodiment a multi compliance framework and risk remediation subsystem is provided that includes controls and risk repository and compliance management processor . Further details of the above cited components are described hereinabove.

The computer system includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit for example a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device for example a keyboard a cursor control device for example a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device for example a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of executable instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein below. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received over a network by means of a network interface device .

In contrast to the system discussed above a different embodiment uses logic circuitry instead of computer executed instructions to implement processing entities. Depending upon the particular requirements of the application in the areas of speed expense tooling costs and the like this logic may be implemented by constructing an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having thousands of tiny integrated transistors. Such an ASIC may be implemented with CMOS complimentary metal oxide semiconductor TTL transistor transistor logic VLSI very large systems integration or another suitable construction. Other alternatives include a digital signal processing chip DSP discrete circuitry such as resistors capacitors diodes inductors and transistors field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic array PLA programmable logic device PLD and the like.

It is to be understood that embodiments may be used as or to support software programs or software modules executed upon some form of processing core such as the CPU of a computer or otherwise implemented or realized upon or within a system or computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer. For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals for example carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or any other type of media suitable for storing or transmitting information.

Although the invention is described herein with reference to the preferred embodiment one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other applications may be substituted for those set forth herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the invention should only be limited by the Claims included below.

