---

title: Fuel cell using a hydrogen generation system
abstract: A system is described for storing and generating hydrogen and, in particular, a system for storing and generating hydrogen for use in an H/Ofuel cell. The hydrogen storage system uses beta particles from a beta particle emitting material to degrade an organic polymer material to release substantially pure hydrogen. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, beta particles from Ni are used to release hydrogen from linear polyethylene.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07816044&OS=07816044&RS=07816044
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07816044
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100308
---
This application is a divisional application of prior co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 045 884 filed Mar. 11 2008 entitled Hydrogen Storage and Generation System which claims priority to prior provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 918 159 originally filed Mar. 14 2007.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

This invention is directed generally to a system and method for the generation and storage of hydrogen and particularly as a source of hydrogen and the generation thereof for use in a fuel cell. In this invention an organic polymer material is employed as the hydrogen source and an associated beta particle emitter is used to release hydrogen from the organic polymer material for further application.

A fuel cell is a device for converting the chemical energy of a fuel directly into electrical energy in a continuous process. Although in principle the nature of the reactants is not limited the fuel cell reaction almost always involves the combination of hydrogen in some form with oxygen. Consequently hydrogen generation and storage is a requirement for the pervasive introduction of fuel cells into the marketplace. To date many options have been utilized for the hydrogen source of an H Ofuel cell. Among the more common hydrogen storage materials are LiAlHand LiBH. The reaction of lithium amide with water is also used for low temperature generation of hydrogen. Typical practical storage densities are on the order of 10 by mass of material not considering system issues such as valving. Other types of hydrogen storage materials include methane which can store up to 25 hydrogen by mass but being a gas requires storage means that can drive up system mass and volume. Methanol is an attractive choice based on cost and availability however hydrogen comprises only 12 by mass and additionally a high temperature reformer is required to access the hydrogen driving up system volume and mass. Moreover the reforming process produces CO and COthat can poison the catalysts on the proton exchange membrane. Alanates can be attractive sources as well but require water to activate are hazardous and in some cases form oxides upon reaction with water that inhibit further reaction from occurring.

In an attempt to overcome the problems associated with an H Ofuel cell attention has been drawn to the use of direct injection of beta particles into a p n junction to generate electricity cf. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 606 213 Nuclear batteries 6 774 531 Apparatus and method for generating electrical current from the decay process of a radioactive material 5 721 462 Nuclear battery and 3 934 162 Miniaturized nuclear battery . However conversion efficiencies for this process rarely exceed 1 the reported lifetimes are very limited and these devices are capable of only producing very limited power.

Accordingly the instant invention provides generally a method and system for the storage and generation of hydrogen that overcomes the shortcomings of prior art hydrogen generation schemes by using beta particles to degrade an organic polymer material thereby releasing pure hydrogen. A particular benefit of the invention is the ability to generate hydrogen for use in an air breathing H O fuel cell without the need for associated valving tubing reformers shielding or high pressure storage means.

Beta particles electrons released from a beta particle emitting radioisotope such as the radioisotope Ni can be used to degrade an organic material preferably a polymer material and most preferably an olefinic polymer material such as linear polyethylene thereby releasing pure or substantially pure hydrogen mass spectroscopic analysis of the gas produced by beta particle reaction with linear polyethylene showed 99 pure hydrogen . The generated hydrogen can be used in turn in an H Ofuel cell. By separating the irradiated material from the active electrochemical generating material the degradation of the electrical generating capacity with time is prevented. It is anticipated that the conversion of nuclear energy to electrical energy will exceed 4 . Because of the direct conversion of radioactive emission beta particles to hydrogen the apparatus has no valves or other moving parts and additionally can be molded or formed into any shape. The olefinic polymer itself contains about 14 wt hydrogen which is double the availability in the LiAlH HO system and rivals that available in NaSi complexes.

The invention provides several advantages over methods and systems presently employed. 1 No valving of reactants is required resulting in lower system volume than prior art fuel cell systems. 2 The device is only moderately affected by temperature the radiation source is unaffected by temperature. It has been shown that between 77 and 55 C. there are only moderate differences in hydrogen production T. Seguchi Radiation Effects on Polymers 442 456 1991 . 3 The materials are not particularly toxic or volatile compared to some hydrogen generation systems currently available such as the alanite systems. 4 The system is extremely reliable since there are no moving parts or device control schemes used. 5 The system constructed as a polymer film provides for inexpensive and flexible processing. 6 The system is scalable to small sizes that can be employed for on chip applications where the energy density of batteries is extremely poor.

A 100 M thick Ni Zn battery is only capable of storing about 50 J cmorders of magnitude less than the 7500 J cmthe system disclosed herein is capable of producing.

Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawing.

The instant invention is directed generally to a system for storing and generating hydrogen and in particular to a system for storing and generating hydrogen for use in a fuel cell system and particularly in an H Ofuel cell.

The invention employs the fact that many organic polymer materials release substantially pure hydrogen when exposed to ionizing radiation in particular ionizing beta radiation cf. Seguchi op. cit. . Pure olefinic polymers provide a potential source of pure hydrogen when exposed to energetic particles. Pure linear polyethylene having the general formula CH provides about 14 of the hydrogen available on the polymer. Shorter linear chains can generate about 15 because of the terminal CHgroups.

Referring now to shows a fuel cell embodiment of the invention and will be used to illustrate generally the operation of the invention. It is understood that the example of is provided for purposes of clarifying and understanding of the principles of this invention. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiment set forth herein. The scope and extent of the invention being defined by the concluding claims.

The fuel cell comprises a hydrogen generator an intimate mixture of a beta particle emitter preferably Ni and an olefinic hydrocarbon polymer preferably a linear hydrocarbon polymer and most preferably linear polyethylene. Hydrogen produced by the interaction of the beta particles electrons emitted by Ni with the olefinic polymer diffuses to a membrane electrode assembly comprising spaced apart electrodes and and a hydrogen transporting medium such as a proton exchange membrane PEM disposed therebetween.

Of particular concern in an H Ofuel cell is the possibility for oxygen diffusion from the air breathing cathode through the proton exchange membrane and into the anode region to adversely affect the hydrogen evolution reaction or to oxidize the irradiated polymer creating CO and COradiolysis products thereby poisoning catalysts incorporated in the hydrogen anode. Oxygen scavengers can be used to remove the unwanted oxygen. In one aspect of the invention cobalt salts are incorporated into the PEM to prevent oxygen from reaching the hydrogen anode region.

Beta particles from a Ni source have such a short range they are unable to penetrate even the outer layer of skin. The maximum energy of beta particles from Ni is about 67 keV and their penetration depth in polymer materials is about 64 m. At the average energy of about 17 keV their penetration depth in polymers is about 5 m. Their range in nickel varies from about 0.6 m at average energy to about 8 m at maximum energy. This indicates that for maximum hydrogen generation efficiency submicron particles of Ni intimately mixed in low volume ratio with a polyolefin is a desirable configuration for hydrogen generator . Alternatively alternating layers of polyolefin and submicron thick Ni sheets can also be used. The incorporation of hydrogen permeable materials or channels may be used to facilitate the release of evolved hydrogen.

Assuming hydrogen generation increases linearly with absorbed dose we can extrapolate from Seguchi s data op. cit. to determine the proportion of polyolefin to radionuclide appropriate for a fuel cell of a specific life. A 1 volume fraction 1 vol of Ni 8 by mass will initially produce 19 W of electrical energy cmof mixture. Neglecting hydrogen depletion effects the power will drop to about 17 W cmover 13 years releasing about 7500 J electrical energy cm. At that point most of the hydrogen available in the polyolefin has been removed.

Devices with a greater ratio of Ni to polyolefin will produce higher power densities over a shorter life. By way of example at 26 vol Ni the power density peaks at about 134 W electrical energy cmreleasing about 5600 J electrical energy cmin 1.3 years. Larger volume fractions of Ni will reduce power density due to the decreased quantity of polymer and increased beta energy absorption in the Ni. For sufficiently fine Ni particle sizes submicron the fraction of energy deposited in the Ni will be comparable to the mass fraction of Ni in the mixture.

In contrast to conventional batteries the device disclosed herein is substantially unaffected by temperature extremes conditions under which the performance of traditional batteries would decline significantly. The performance of a conventional Zn air battery at 0 C. is between 50 and 80 of its rated capacity depending upon discharge conditions. By 18 C. the performance of the Zn air battery is only 50 of capacity at under optimum conditions. There is no expectation that the performance of the device disclosed herein will degrade in performance over these temperature ranges.

While the invention has been illustrated using Ni as the beta particle emitter other beta particle emitters such as H S and Ca are also contemplated as being useful in various applications.

From the foregoing description and examples one skilled in the art can readily ascertain the essential characteristics of the present invention. The description and examples are intended to be illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limitations or restrictions thereon the invention being delineated in the following claims. Moreover to the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

