---

title: Deployable magnetometer
abstract: Cost-effective compact magnetometers can be deployed across large ocean areas to record magnetic field strengths. Each magnetometer has a canister containing a magnetometer sensor at its upper end to detect magnetic field strengths of magnetic influence sweep systems and provide representative data signals. Each magnetometer also has sensors to collect data representative of the orientation of the magnetometer as well as temperature and depth to aid in post operational evaluation of the gathered magnetic strength data. A computer processor connected to the sensors controls receipt of the data signals and stores them in a memory device. Batteries at the canister's lower end supply power for the sensors, processor, and memory. An anchor release mechanism causes an anchor to separate from the canister, allowing it to float to the surface for recovery or to transmit data via a UHF transceiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08378671&OS=08378671&RS=08378671
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08378671
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100518
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This invention relates to a system for recording magnetic field strengths in the marine environment. More particularly the invention is for a magnetometer for recording real time magnetic field strengths to allow a determination of the effectiveness of minesweeping operations in different water environments.

Magnetic minesweeping operations are performed in a wide variety of ocean environments that exhibit differing characteristics that can affect the performance of the sweep systems. Predictions of sweep performance are historically based on limited knowledge of the water and bottom conditions and structure. Effective minesweeping operations require that areas be swept of mines to a high or total level of clearance with an associated level of confidence. Inaccurate predictions of the area s magnetic environment can lead to sweep operations that fall short of the needed clearance levels.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a magnetometer packaged in a man portable container for deployment from a vessel or aircraft to record real time magnetic field strengths in a body of water and recover the gathered data manually or via a radio frequency link to a surface or airborne remote data retrieval platform for determining the effectiveness of minesweeping operations in various water environments.

The present invention provides a magnetometer that can be deployed individually or in patterns of many magnetometers across large expanses of the ocean to record magnetic field strengths. The magnetometer has an elongate canister made from a non magnetic material containing a magnetometer sensor at one end. The magnetometer sensor has sensitivity and resolution to detect magnetic field strengths of magnetic influence sweep systems operated by surface or airborne platforms and provides data signals representative of the detected magnetic field strengths. A computer processor in the canister is connected to the magnetometer sensor and is appropriately pre programmed to control recording of field strengths and transmission of detected magnetic field strength data. A memory device such as a volatile memory is in the canister at the computer processor and is coupled to the computer processor to store the magnetic field strength data. A power distribution system includes at least one battery in the canister at the end opposite from the magnetometer sensor and has electrical power distributing conductors to supply electrical power for the magnetometer sensor the computer processor the memory device and other data generating components to be described. A combination anchor release mechanism is connected to the canister at the opposite end and is connected to an anchor. An acoustic transducer on the outside of the canister can be connected to the power distribution system and the combination anchor release mechanism can be activated by an acoustic signal from the acoustic transducer to release the canister from the anchor. Optionally the combination anchor release mechanism can utilize a dissolving link dissolvable in seawater after a predetermined period of time to release the canister from the anchor or the combination anchor release mechanism has an onboard solenoid operated release controlled by the computer processor to release the canister from the anchor. An orientation sensor is provided in the canister and is coupled to the computer processor and the power distribution system. The orientation sensor senses and provides data signals representative of the heading pitch and roll of the magnetometer sensor and sends the heading pitch roll data to the memory device at the computer processor. A temperature and depth sensor in the canister is coupled to the computer processor and the power distribution system. The temperature and depth sensor senses and provides data representative of temperature and depth of the magnetometer sensor and sends the temperature and depth data to the memory device at the computer processor. The invention also has a UHF transceiver inside and at the upper end of the canister with an antenna on the outside of the canister. The UHF transceiver is coupled to the power distribution system to transmit and receive signals including collected data signals and remotely originating command signals. A magnetically operated switch is mounted on the inside of the canister and is coupled to the power distribution system. The magnetically operated switch is turned on by passing a small magnet over the external surface of the canister adjacent to the internal location of the magnetically operated switch to supply electrical power from the batteries via the electric power conductors to other components in the canister.

An object of the invention is to provide an apparatus and method to collect data that can be used to allow a determination of the effectiveness of minesweeping operations in different water environments.

Another object of the invention is to provide an apparatus and method for recording real time magnetic field strengths for determining effectiveness of minesweeping operations in various water environments.

Another object of the invention is to provide a vessel or aircraft deployed apparatus to collect data that can be used to determine effectiveness of minesweeping operations.

Another object of the invention is to provide an apparatus and method to collect data that can be used to determine effectiveness of minesweeping operations in various water environments with a high level of confidence.

Another object of the invention is to provide naval planners a better understanding of the effectiveness of magnetic mine sweeping operations by measuring the actual magnetic sweep performance in an operational environment.

Another object of the invention is to provide an apparatus and method to collect data that can be used to determine effectiveness of minesweeping operations using portable and expendable packages that eliminate hazardous exposures of personnel in the field.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cost effective magnetometer packaged in a sonobuoy sized container for ease in handling and launching.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cost effective apparatus using primarily off the shelf commercial components to collect data that can be used to determine effectiveness of minesweeping operations.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to deployable magnetometer of the invention is schematically depicted as it is being dropped onto the surface of the ocean from a surface craft or aircraft . Deployment of one or more or patterns of a considerable number of magnetometers to rest on the bottom in a given area in a body of water such as ocean permits monitoring and determination of the tactical effectiveness of offensive and defensive magnetic minesweeping operations.

Magnetometer is sized and weighted to be man portable and capable of being stowed in numbers on vessels and aircraft and deployed from them in operational areas. This packaging is preferably similar in size to an A size sonobuoy to permit easy integration into existing deployment platforms. Typically it has can fit through cabin access doors and passageways of MH 60 type helicopters for example. The compact design allows magnetometer to be manually recovered for retrieval of gathered data or the data can be transmitted to a remote data retrieval platform via radio link as described below.

Magnetometer has an elongate cylindrically shaped electronics canister . Canister provides a protective enclosure for components of magnetometer which include a magnetometer sensor combination temperature and depth sensor orientation sensor data recording computer processor an anchor release mechanism UHF radio transceiver with antenna and power distribution system including electrical power distributing conductors and batteries . Canister is made from materials that are non magnetic e.g. plastic or composites to minimize interference with magnetometer sensor and other sensors referred to above. Canister can itself pass the magnetic field strength energy that magnetometer sensor senses or in the exercise of ordinary skill one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains can provide appropriately located suitable openings and or windows made of suitable materials in canister to assure transmission of acceptable magnitudes of the energy of the magnetic field strength.

For the purposes of this description and the ensuing claims the terms lower end and bottom of magnetometer refer to the end of the magnetometer that rests on the sea floor and or contains anchor as illustrated in . The terms upper end and top of magnetometer refer to the end opposite from the lower end.

By way of example schematically shows magnetometer sensor located near or at an upper end of magnetometer . This location places magnetometer sensor at the top as magnetometer is likely to rest on and upwardly extend from bottom of ocean after deployment also see magnetometer at the lower left of . The schematic depiction of magnetometer sensor and the other sensors depicted in the drawings is intended to be demonstrative of the invention and is not intended to be limiting and accordingly one skilled in the art can locate and or relocate the sensors to maximize the effectiveness of magnetometer .

Magnetometer sensor has sensitivity and resolution that are sufficient to detect the passage of magnetic field strengths of magnetic influence sweep systems operated by surface or airborne platforms at specified ranges. Magnetometer sensor can be any of a number of commercially available units that are capable of sensing and reporting magnetic field strengths over three orthogonal axes. Magnetometer sensor is magnetically isolated from the rest of the components of magnetometer by evoking appropriate material selections use of magnetic shielding materials routing of cabling and the arrangement of interior components in accordance with established practices of one skilled in the art to prevent the generation of local spurious electro magnetic fields.

Temperature and depth sensor has a combination sensor element extending through said canister that senses and passes data to computer processor representative of water temperature and the depth where magnetometer sits on bottom . Temperature and depth sensor coupled to computer processor and power distribution system senses and provides data signals representative of temperature and depth of magnetometer sensor and couples the temperature and depth data signals to memory device at computer processor to also provide an interlock for UHF transceiver to only allow RF transmission of data when the magnetometer is at the surface. Additionally orientation sensor provides data to computer processor representative of the heading roll and pitch orientations of magnetometer . Orientation sensors are well known and widely used in the arts associated with navigation inertial guidance and autonomous vehicle guidance and selection of a suitable sensor for incorporation in magnetometer of the invention is within the exercise of skill by one of ordinary skill in the art. Orientation data is useful for post processing collected magnetic data from magnetometer sensor to correct for movement of magnetometer if it is disturbed by underwater currents or sea life for example. In other words sensors and give on going data representative of on going changes in depth heading roll and pitch which is valuable information to permit a more meaningful post mission analysis and evaluation of magnetic sweep performance.

Referring to magnetometer is controlled through computer processor that is appropriately pre programmed and later activated to coordinate the control and receipt of sensed magnetic field strengths of magnetometer sensor data from temperature and depth sensor data from orientation sensor data exchange and data recording. Computer processor has control leads coupled to sensors to release mechanism and UHF transceiver to control the sequence of events and data gathering based on programmed commands.

Referring again to an external waterproof communications port having a removable sealed cover extends through canister to allow for pre deployment programming of computer processor of magnetometer . This preprogramming can include setting the period s for selective activation of the sensors of magnetometer to one or more sequences of on and off time time of release of an anchor by release mechanism to be described time of scuttling magnetometer using appropriately actuated plugs and or dissolving structure for plugs for examples extending through the wall of canister and crypto keying of UHF transceiver if needed . Communications port can also be used to download collected data from computer processor following a mission when magnetometer is manually recovered.

Programming data of computer processor and data representative of magnetic field strengths of magnetometer sensor of temperature depth data collected by temperature depth sensor and of heading pitch roll data collected by orientation sensor are recorded to a volatile memory device e.g. flash memory that can be a separate component properly interconnected to or an integral part of computer processor . The stored data of sensors and in volatile memory is saved at least until computer processor is activated to transmit the data via UHF transceiver or the data is extracted at a remote facility when the entire magnetometer is manually recovered. Using a solid state memory for memory device improves reliability requires little power and consumes little space. Additionally this type of memory provides some security if magnetometer is lost because when power is removed per shutdown command or battery exhaustion stored data is erased.

A magnetically operated switch is mounted on the inside of canister and is coupled to power distribution system . Switch is turned on by passing a small magnet over the external surface of canister adjacent to the location where switch is internally located to supply electrical power from batteries via conductors of power distribution system to the other components referred to above. This triggers a power up sequence that prepares magnetometer for operation and following a predetermined boot up time computer processor can be connected to a topside computer via opened port for programming.

Referring again to power distributing system has a power distribution monitoring module that controls the charging of the long endurance rechargeable dry cell batteries that are sized to accommodate the longest mission time envisioned and prepares the other electronics for shutdown if battery life is low. Module of system has a closable access port A to permit connection to an external power source for recharging batteries prior to a mission.

UHF transceiver can be a small UHF transceiver installed at the upper end of magnetometer to transmit UHF data signals following a mission when it has been properly interrogated by a remote radio. An encryption device or software in UHF transceiver or in interconnected computer processor can optionally be used in the transmission or receipt of radio signals to prevent the compromise of transmitted data.

Antenna is spring loaded to normally extend upward and away from the top of magnetometer but is folded and held adjacent to the exterior of canister during stowage and launch by a radio activated electromechanical device such as a clamp or sleeve A that secures the end of the antenna to the canister note that while both types of devices and A are illustrated in the FIGs it is anticipated that only one would normally be used on the magnetometer . When clamp is used it is activated by an appropriate signal from UHF transceiver to release antenna and the spring like nature of antenna causes it to extend upward and away from canister . Alternatively if secured with a sleeve like device A coupled to anchor upon release of anchor the end of antenna pulls free of sleeve like device A allowing antenna to extend upward. The extended antenna projects above magnetometer as it floats on surface at the end of a mission see upper magnetometer in . If magnetometer was programmed for manual recovery UHF transceiver would not transmit data as it floats on surface but antenna may be extended to transmit a homing beacon or to otherwise aid in locating magnetometer .

Anchor is made from essentially cone shaped non ferrous material having a sufficient weight to sink and hold magnetometer on bottom . The weight of anchor is sufficient to orient magnetometer upright on bottom and keep it firmly affixed to one location. Anchor is connected to combination mechanical release mechanism that may also have its own battery and or be coupled to power module . Release mechanism can be incorporated into the body of anchor or located in between canister and anchor to releaseably connect anchor to canister . In either case release mechanism is activated to release canister from anchor . When released from the weight of anchor canister becomes positively buoyant and floats to surface . The activation of release mechanism may be caused by a timed release relying on a dissolving link in combination release mechanism an acoustically activated release activated by an acoustic command signal received by an acoustic transducer from a remote data retrieval control platform and or via an onboard solenoid operated release or similar device controlled by computer processor and extending between canister and anchor . Irrespective of which mode of release is relied upon anchor remains on bottom and is separated from the upper cylindrically shaped canister and canister and all components therein are buoyed upward to float on surface for manual recovery and or UHF transmission of data. The weight of batteries in canister ballasts magnetometer to keep it in an upright position during ascent and while floating on surface for reliable transmission of data and or manual recovery.

Magnetometer also has the capability to avoid the unintended recovery by others by selective scuttling. A pair of plugs might be provided one vent one flood on the bottom of electronics canister that are uncovered upon release from anchor . If plugs are timed dissolving plugs the time needed to dissolve the material of plugs in seawater gives magnetometer a limited amount of time at the surface to transmit the gathered data before it self scuttles. Optionally plugs could be made to be removed by incorporating small electrically activated valve like devices that are activated via processor after a predetermined period of time or upon receipt of a scuttle command signal from a remote data retrieval command platform to scuttle magnetometer .

Prior to a minesweeping operation a sufficient number of preassembled magnetometers are readied to record the sensed data representative of magnetic field strengths. The number and dispersion of magnetometers are determined based on size of the operating area and the environment. Batteries of magnetometers can be charged and installed in canisters or they can be charged via access port A of power module after batteries are placed in canister .

Magnetic switch is activated to turn on magnetometers except for each UHF transceiver which is prevented from operation at this point by an interconnected transceiver switch located adjacent to anchor . Each magnetometer is enabled for gathering and recording data and has its computer processor programmed to commence recording magnetic strength data at a predetermined time to correspond with start of sweep operations. Magnetometers are preferably launched from aircraft or surface craft and GPS position and time data are monitored and recorded by the launch platform. Placement of magnetometers by aircraft and or surface vessels avoids the hazards that might be otherwise be created by such placement by personnel. During magnetic sweeping each deployed magnetometer records the local magnetic field strength output from the magnetic sweep system as it passes through the operating area. Upon completion of the mission each magnetometer surfaces after releasing its anchor via release mechanism as described above.

Transceiver switch is held in the open position by anchor when installed on canister . When anchor is released from canister transceiver switch is allowed to close via e.g. spring action thereby connecting electrical power from batteries to UHF transceiver so it can transmit RF signals from antenna to transfer data and or a homing beacon when canister reaches surface .

At surface each magnetometer is either recovered manually by a surface vessel less preferable due to need for human entry into operating area or as it floats it transmits its data via onboard UHF transceiver and antenna to a receiving aircraft or surface vessel. Following a successful upload and transmission of gathered data from each UHF transceiver and if magnetometers are not to be recovered they can be programmed or commanded via a remotely originating radio command signal to each UHF transceiver to scuttle via appropriate activation of electrically interconnected plugs .

Data recovered from one or more magnetometers is then used by mission planners to determine if the predicted result matched the measured magnetic sweep performance. By knowing the sweep system parameters sweep system tracks and the location of each magnetometer the actual performance of the sweep system can be determined.

Magnetometer of the invention provides planners a better understanding of the effectiveness of magnetic minesweeping operations. Currently there is no known ability to gauge magnetic sweep performance in an operational environment. Magnetometer of the invention provides a relatively low cost portable and expendable package that would eliminate the need to place and expose personnel in the field to make such determinations. Magnetometer of the invention uses primarily commercial off the shelf components so there are little non recurring engineering costs and existing technology allows for the containment of hardware in packages small enough to be man portable for ease in handling and deployment. The use of combination anchor releases and radio transceiver as described herein eliminates the hazards normally associated with the need to place personnel in the field.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. Magnetometer provides easily deployed man portable means to record real time magnetic field strengths to allow a determination of the effectiveness of minesweeping operations in various water environments. Therefore magnetometer of the invention as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.

It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

