---

title: GPU computational assist for drive media waveform generation of media emulators
abstract: Disclosed is a method and apparatus for testing devices that will be connected to a computer storage media device by generating a complex test waveform that emulates operation of the computer storage media device using at least one Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) and applying the generated complex test waveform to the device(s) being tested. The complex test waveform may be generated by calculating a plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform in parallel, in real-time, and continuously using the parallel processing features of the GPU(s). The discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform may be representative of various characteristics of the emulated computer storage media device operation such as operational characteristics of the computer storage media device, environmental effects on the computer storage media device, application of filters to the computer storage media device signal, etc. Various embodiments may generate the base data signal waveform from the emulated computer storage device such that the entire complex test waveform is calculated. Other embodiments may use a pre-existing base data signal waveform provided from another source and modify/alter the pre-existing base data signal waveform to generate the complex test waveform. When available, one or more Central Processing Units (CPUs) and/or CPU cores may also perform calculations in parallel with the calculations performed by the GPU(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08499199&OS=08499199&RS=08499199
owner: LSI Corporation
number: 08499199
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100908
---
As computer technology has advanced through the years access to computer readable data storage has been an important feature to permit computer systems to store data and applications for use by the computer system. Two common computer readable storage mediums are rotating computer storage media such as Hard Disk Drives HDDs and more recently developed Solid State Media Disks SSDs which either singly or together are an integral part of a typical modern computer system. Often the data and applications stored on a computer storage media device have a much larger financial value than the financial cost of the computer system equipment itself. Thus a failure of the computer storage media device may cause much more financial harm than complete failure of the remainder of the computer system. A malfunction in the computer storage media controller and or other computer storage media circuitry subsystems may appear as a failure of the actual rotating magnetic media of an HDD or the memory chips of an SSD. Malfunctions in other equipment that interacts with the computer storage media device prior to delivery of data to a final destination may also appear as a failure of the actual computer storage media device. Further the computer storage media controller and or other computer storage media circuitry subsystems as well as other devices that may interact with the computer storage media device may also be able to correct for some errors encountered by the computer storage media device prior to the signal from the computer storage media device reaching the controller circuit subsystem external device etc. Thus to ensure the maximum reliability of computer storage media from the perspective of a typical user it is important to ensure that not only is the actual media as reliable as possible i.e. the rotating magnetic media of an HDD and the memory chips of an SSD but that other ancillary devices are also as reliable as possible i.e. the computer storage media controller and or other computer storage media circuitry as well as any other devices that may interact with the computer storage media device .

An embodiment of the present invention may comprise a method to test in real time at least one test device that is a device intended to interact with a computer storage media device comprising calculating in real time and continuously a plurality of discrete individual portions of a complex test waveform using parallel processing features of at least one Graphics Processing Unit GPU such that each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions is calculated in parallel by the at least one GPU each calculation of each discrete individual portion of the plurality of individual portions being based on a calculable algorithm that defines a representation of an effect on a data signal delivered by the computer storage media device combining the plurality of calculated discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform together to generate a complete complex test waveform that emulates operation of the computer storage media in real time continuously and using the parallel processing features of the at least one GPU and applying in real time and continuously the complete complex test waveform to the at least one test device in order to test operation of the at least one test device when the at least one test device interacts with the complete complex test waveform that emulates the computer storage media device.

An embodiment of the present invention may further comprise a test apparatus for testing in real time at least one device that is intended to interact with a computer storage media device comprising at least one Graphics Processing Unit GPU that has parallel processing features a calculation subsystem that calculates in real time and continuously a plurality of discrete individual portions of a complex test waveform using the parallel processing features of the at least one GPU such that each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions is calculated in parallel by the at least one GPU each calculation of each discrete individual portion of the plurality of individual portions being based on a calculable algorithm that defines a representation of an effect on a data signal delivered by the computer storage media device a complex test waveform generation subsystem that combines the plurality of calculated discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform together to generate a complete complex test waveform that emulates operation of the computer storage media in real time continuously and using the parallel processing features of the at least one GPU and a complex test waveform output that outputs the complete complex test waveform for application in real time and continuously to the at least one test device in order to test operation of the at least one test device when the at least one test device interacts with the complete complex test waveform that emulates the computer storage media device.

An embodiment of the present invention may further comprise a test apparatus for testing in real time at least one device that is intended to interact with a computer storage media device comprising means for calculating in real time and continuously a plurality of discrete individual portions of a complex test waveform using parallel processing features of at least one Graphics Processing Unit GPU such that each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions is calculated in parallel by the at least one GPU each calculation of each discrete individual portion of the plurality of individual portions being based on a calculable algorithm that defines a representation of an effect on a data signal delivered by the computer storage media device means for combining the plurality of calculated discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform together to generate a complete complex test waveform that emulates operation of the computer storage media in real time continuously and using the parallel processing features of the at least one GPU and means for applying in real time and continuously the complete complex test waveform to the at least one test device in order to test operation of the at least one test device when the at least one test device interacts with the complete complex test waveform that emulates the computer storage media device.

Data and applications stored on computer storage media are often some of the most important and financially valuable possessions of a computer user. Two common computer readable storage mediums are rotating magnetic computer storage media such as Hard Disk Drives HDDs and more recently Solid State Media Disks SSDs based on flash memory or some other type of non volatile memory. Other types of computer storage media devices may currently be available or may become available in the future. In general the various types of computer storage media devices interact with a storage media controller and or other circuitry of the computer storage media device in a similar fashion. Likewise interactions of the computer storage media device with any other devices that may be operating in conjunction with the computer storage media device including external devices may also be characterized in a similar fashion. The similarity of interactions between controllers subsystems and other devices and the various types of raw computer storage media devices e.g. HDDs SDDs etc. comes about since in the end the storage and retrieval of data is a common feature of all the various types of computer storage media devices.

Improper function of the computer storage media controller and or other computer storage media circuitry as well as other devices that may interact with the computer storage media device may appear to a user as a failure of the actual computer storage media device at the heart of the storage mechanism and not a failure of ancillary controllers subsystems external devices etc. Accordingly the importance of testing the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the actual computer storage media such as the rotating magnetic platters of HDDs or the flash memory of SSDs is important in order to ensure that the equipment interacting with the computer storage media operates correctly. Generally to properly test the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media it is necessary to have signals waveforms that are representative of the computer storage media operation for use during the development debugging verification and validation of the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media. Providing various representative signals waveforms as the signal waveform would appear at various locations in the signal path may also be useful in testing. Some locations that may be useful for emulation of representative waveforms include but are not limited to raw data as read at the actual computer storage media i.e. at the head for a rotating magnetic HDD or at the output of the memory chips for an SSD at the input to a pre amplifier at the output of the pre amplifier at the input to a controller subsystem at the output of the controller subsystem and at the final delivery point. It is desirable to have as much control over the representative waveforms as possible so that the full range of potential signals waveforms that may be produced by a computer storage media device may be generated at will and used to perform the most extensive testing possible of the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media device.

A computer storage media emulator apparatus that provides signals waveforms that emulate operation of the computer storage media device may be used to provide the necessary signals waveforms to test the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media. Generation computation of the representative signals waveforms that emulate operation of a real the computer storage media device may be a very computation intensive task and may also be require a lot of bandwidth i.e. being able to move large amounts of data . A full representative waveform that encompasses the entire storage capacity of a computer storage medium are typically very large at approximately eight to ten times the size of the capacity of the computer storage media. For typical computer storage media available today the full representative waveform may be tens of terabytes or larger. Sequentially processing the large amount of data needed to fully represent a waveform from a computer storage media device is not practical for use in the design test and or validation of the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media. Since the computation of a waveform that is representative of operation of a real computer storage device may take too long and consume too much bandwidth a testing system may use simplified or idealized waveforms instead of the desired waveforms that are truly representative of actual computer storage media operation. Further due to the large amount of data contained in the simulated waveforms short samples or snippets of waveforms may be used instead of a full continuous representation of the simulated signal waveform that more accurately emulates operation of the computer storage media device.

Generation of a full waveform that emulates operation of a computer storage media device typically utilizes large vectors of integer data with many simple mathematical operations performed on each element of the vectors such as simple addition. Each element of the very large vector may be considered a discrete individual portion of the full complete waveform such that a plurality of discrete individual portions i.e. vector elements may be computed and combined to make generate the full complete waveform. Calculation of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the full complete waveform may be performed efficiently using parallel processing. Accordingly an embodiment may provide a full continuous representation in real time aka. at speed of a complete complex waveform that accurately represents the actual operation of a computer storage media device by applying the processing power and parallel processing features of one or more Graphics Processing Units GPUs . Optionally to add to the processing power available from the one or more GPUs the one or more GPUs may also work in conjunction with one or more Central Processing Units CPUs if available to enhance and accelerate the process of generating the complex waveform i.e. complex test waveform . The complex test waveform generated may then be used to test the controller and data access devices subsystems equipment etc. that interact with the computer storage media. For an embodiment real time performance represents that the complex test waveform is available while the complete complex waveform is calculated and that the calculations are performed at a speed that permits the waveform to remain available while the calculations are performed. That is the calculations to generate the complete complex waveform are performed at least as fast as the complete complex waveform is delivered. Similarly for an embodiment continuous performance represents that the complete complex test waveform is available continuously from the time the complete complex waveform is requested to be delivered until the time it is requested that the complete complex waveform be stopped. Thus an embodiment does not require that short sections snippets of a waveform be stored and then delivered in short bursts. For an embodiment a full complete complex waveform represents that the waveform generated is a reasonably accurate approximation of the actual signal waveform including real world effects on the waveform and not a simplified or ideal representation of the waveform that may not convey many of the idiosyncrasies of a real world waveform and or that the waveform is capable of representing data of the entire storage capacity of the emulated computer storage device.

At step one or more Graphics Processing Units GPUs are used to calculate the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform. The one or more GPUs calculate each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform according to the calculable algorithm corresponding to each discrete individual portion. The calculations of the discrete individual portions are performed in parallel using the parallel processing features capabilities of typical GPUs such that the calculations may be performed in real time aka. at speed and continuously. Further if additional processing resources such as one or more Central Processing Units CPUs are available the additional resources e.g. the CPUs may be used to perform some of the calculations of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform to permit additional faster calculations than may be available with through use of just the available GPUs. One skilled in the art will recognize that a CPU with multiple cores may operate similar to multiple CPUs with each core acting as a CPU. Therefore when referring to one or more CPUs a CPU core may be considered to be the operating equivalent of a CPU for purposes of the calculations of the plurality of discrete independent portions of the complex test waveform. In the embodiment shown in the calculations of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform include a calculation of the base form i.e. raw form of the data signal from the emulated computer storage media device. Thus in the embodiment shown in the entire complex test waveform is generated by the applicable compute resources i.e. GPUs and optionally CPUs or other available computation resources .

At step the plurality of calculated from step above discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform are combined together in order to generate a complete complex test waveform that incorporates all of the characteristics aspects features etc. of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform. As with the calculation of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform the combination of the plurality of calculated discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform is performed in parallel in real time and continuously by the GPUs using the parallel processing features available on typical GPUs. Again any additional available compute resources such as CPUs may also be used to enhance the available parallel processing of the GPUs with the computer resources being assigned calculable algorithms as may best suit the particular calculation at hand see also the disclosure with respect to below .

At step the complete complex test waveform from step is applied to one or more test devices. The one or more test devices may include any internal or external device subsystem circuit etc. that is intended to interact with the emulated computer media device. The real time continuous complete complex test waveform permits the one or more test devices to be tested in real time and continuously using an emulated waveform of the operation of the computer storage media device that closely represents the actual operation of the computer storage media device. Thus the test devices may be tested in situations that closely approximate actual operating conditions i.e. not simplified or ideal conditions without the need to have the actual computer storage media device present. Further as the complete complex test waveform is generated the test devices may be tested against a variety of different computer storage media devices by changing the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform to emulate a different computer storage media device.

Further various effects on the emulated complex test waveform may be added subtracted and or modified at runtime to permit a user to test various scenarios including scenarios that may be difficult to recreate with the actual computer storage media device being emulated. An embodiment may provide access to adjustable parameters that when modified change the output of a calculable algorithm. One simple parameter may be an on off switch that permits a user to add or remove the effects i.e. contribution of a particular discrete individual portion on the resulting complete complex test waveform. One skilled in the art will recognize that an embodiment that completely adds or subtracts a discrete individual portion to or from the overall calculation of the complete complex test waveform may be equivalent to a parameter that turns the calculation of a discrete individual portion of the complex test waveform on and off. Other parameters may provide data variables that modify the results of a calculable algorithm and or may provide switches that turn different features of a calculable algorithm on and off as indicated by the value of the particular parameter being adjusted. Some example parameters may include but are not limited to on off environmental effects head fly height of a rotating computer storage media device servo wedge characteristics of a rotating computer storage media device a parameter associated with a rotating computer storage media device a parameter associated with a flash memory computer storage media device a parameter associated with a Hard Disk Drive HDD computer storage media device a parameter associated with a Solid State Drive SSD computer storage media device and other parameters that may provide desirable modifications to a calculable algorithm. Parameters may be adjusted manually or automatically. An embodiment may automatically change values of one or more parameters to permit a broader range of changes to the complete complex test waveform that in turn permits a broader range of testing for the test devices being tested with the complete complex test waveform. An embodiment that automatically adjusts at least one parameter may adjust the parameter in arbitrarily and or randomly to permit testing of unpredictable changes in the complex test waveform. The automatic updates to calculable algorithm parameters may further be used to perform Monte Carlo type testing within a particular available range of a parameter. Alternatively an embodiment may incorporate the addition subtraction and or modification of the various effects on the emulated complex test waveform described by the use of parameters directly into the calculable algorithm that calculates each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions that generate the complete complex test waveform. Placing automatic parameter updates in the code of the calculable algorithms may be particularly applicable if all parameters are intended to be automatically adjusted.

Each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions that make up the complete complex test waveform may be representative of a contribution to i.e. effect on the complete complex test waveform. For instance contributions from a servo and or user data sectors of rotating magnetic media e.g. HDD may each be incorporated into the complete complex test waveform by including one or more discrete individual portions representative of the servo and or user data sector contributions to the complex test waveform. Similarly other contributions from other sources may be included using additional discrete individual portions such as contributions for environmental effects other circuitry hardware operation on the computer storage media device malfunctions of systems subsystems of the computer storage media device signal loss or other characteristics of a complete complex test waveform that may be defined by calculable algorithms. Advantageously the contributions for each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform do not have to be continuous signals i.e. each discrete individual portion may represent either a continuous or a non continuous contribution to the complete complex test waveform . Consequently instead of one continuous stream of waveform data the data may be divided into discrete portions of a signal such as the servo and user data sectors of the rotating magnetic media of a HDD described above. Thus at a coarse level an embodiment may generate each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform in parallel using the parallel processing features of one or more GPUs and combine the plurality of discrete individual portions together to generate the complete complex test waveform also using the parallel processing features of the GPUs. Examples of continuous discrete individual portions of a complex test waveform may include but are not limited to a raw analog form of a digital signal read directly from the computer storage media device repetitive environmental effects and other continuously repetitive phenomena. Examples of non continuous discrete individual portions of a complex test waveform may include but are not limited to a one time environmental effect a non periodic environmental effect other one time effects other non periodic effects Inter Symbol Interference IS effects media defect effects and or non repetitive access of user data sectors.

Each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform may be calculated using a calculable algorithm that provides an output that is representative of the contribution of the corresponding discrete individual portion of the complex test waveform. Some calculable algorithms may simply apply a filter such as a high pass low pass or band pass filter to the complex test waveform to emulate common issues encountered by a real world signal. The calculable algorithm necessarily is an algorithm that may be calculated computed by the parallel processing features of the one or more GPUs or the optionally available one or more CPUs . Examples of types of calculable algorithms include but are not limited to an Arbitrary Waveform Generation AWG algorithm a transform algorithm a lookup table algorithm an analog signal generation algorithm digital signal generation algorithm a filter algorithm and a mathematical function algorithm.

Since the complex test waveform is calculated as a combination of the contributions of different discrete individual portions the complex test waveform may be configured to emulate the waveform delivered by a computer storage media device at any location along the signal path of the data signal delivered by the emulated computer storage media device. Since different controllers and subsystems as well as other devices may require testing it is beneficial to be able to emulate the state of the signal from the computer storage media device at the location in the signal path where the device controller being tested will be located. With the of the addition and subtraction of the various contributions to the complete complex test waveform by adding or removing various discrete individual portions from the generation of the complete complex test waveform changing the location on the signal path of the emulated complex test waveform is easy to achieve. Examples of locations along the signal path where the generated complex test waveform may emulate operation of the computer storage media device operation may include but are not limited to raw data as read at the computer storage media device raw data as read at a head of a rotating magnetic HDD computer storage device raw data as read at an output of memory chips of a SSD computer storage device at an input to a pre amplifier at the output of the pre amplifier at an input to a controller subsystem of the computer storage media device and at an output of the controller subsystem of the computer storage media device and at a final delivery point of the data delivered by the computer storage media device. Examples of devices that may be tested with the generated complete complex test wave form may include but are not limited to the computer storage device controller the computer storage device writer the computer storage device reader computer storage device functional blocks subsystems an external device interacting with the computer storage device and a subsystem of said external device interacting with said computer storage device.

An embodiment may be implemented using a computer system having one or more GPUs see also the disclosure with respect to below . To simplify programming of an embodiment a designer may enhance an embodiment by using GPU vendor supplied software libraries such as the software libraries provided by NVIDIA Corporation and ATI Technologies Inc. A designer of an embodiment may also use Application Programming Interface API standards such as the OpenCL standard published by the Khronos Group to enhance an embodiment either alone or in addition to the vendor supplied software libraries. While significantly more difficult a designer may also create all necessary programming without any third party tools for assistance. In conjunction with any third party tools used for implementation i.e. vendor supplied software libraries and or standard APIs a designer of an embodiment will also create the custom programming necessary to implement the calculable algorithms for each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions that are necessary to generate waveforms that are representative of signals that would be read delivered from a computer storage media device. A designer may also create a library of calculable algorithms so that future implementations that desire a similar functionality may use the library of calculable algorithms rather than being required to create a new calculable algorithm. The programming APIs and software libraries may also assist with scheduling the algorithmic processing on the appropriate compute resource whether the compute resource is on a GPU or optionally on an CPU. One embodiment may encode the processing element for calculations into the calculable algorithms providing a predefined assignment list for which processor on a GPU and or which CPU will perform a calculation see also the disclosure with respect to below . Another embodiment may use a heuristic algorithm to compare processing speed and efficiency for the various calculations of the calculable algorithms and select between processors on the GPUs and any available CPUs based on the heuristic comparison see also the disclosure with respect to below . Using a heuristic algorithm to select processors for calculations does not require that the number and or type of processing elements be known in advance and or coded into the calculable algorithms. Thus for the heuristic processor selection the number and type of processing elements may be adjusted based on the amount of actual work generation and or transformation necessary for real time waveform generation and output.

At step one or more Graphics Processing Units GPUs are used to calculate the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform used to modify alter the pre existing base data waveform. The one or more GPUs calculate each discrete individual portion of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform according to the calculable algorithm corresponding to each discrete individual portion. The calculations of the discrete individual portions are performed in parallel using the parallel processing features capabilities of typical GPUs such that the calculations may be performed in real time aka. at speed and continuously. Further if additional processing resources such as one or more Central Processing Units CPUs are available the additional resources e.g. the CPUs may be used to perform some of the calculations of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform to permit additional faster calculations than may be available with through use of just the available GPUs. One skilled in the art will recognize that a CPU with multiple cores may operate similar to multiple CPUs with each core acting as a CPU. Therefore when referring to one or CPUs a CPU core may be considered to be the operating equivalent of a CPU for purposes of the calculations of the plurality of discrete independent portions of the complex test waveform. In the embodiment shown in a pre existing waveform is provided for the base form i.e. raw form of the data signal of the emulated computer storage media device. Thus in the embodiment shown in the complex test waveform is based on a pre existing waveform that is modified altered by the applicable compute resources i.e. GPUs and optionally CPUs or other available computation resources .

At step the plurality of calculated from step above discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform are combined together along with the provided pre existing base data waveform in order to generate a complete complex test waveform that incorporates all of the characteristics aspects features etc. of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform. As with the calculation of the plurality of discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform the combination of the plurality of calculated discrete individual portions of the complex test waveform is performed in parallel in real time and continuously by the GPUs using the parallel processing features available on typical GPUs. Again any additional available compute resources such as CPUs may also be used to enhance the available parallel processing of the GPUs with the computer resources being assigned calculable algorithms as may best suit the particular calculation at hand see also the disclosure with respect to below .

At step the complete complex test waveform from step is applied to one or more test devices. The one or more test devices may include any internal or external device subsystem circuit etc. that is intended to interact with the emulated computer media device. The real time continuous complete complex test waveform permits the one or more test devices to be tested in real time and continuously using an emulated waveform of the operation of the computer storage media device that closely represents the actual operation of the computer storage media device. Thus the test devices may be tested in situations that closely approximate actual operating conditions i.e. not simplified or ideal conditions without the need to have the actual computer storage media device present.

Various embodiments may have varying numbers of GPUs but should have at least one GPU . While a standard computer system typically has at least one CPU for the purposes of the calculation of the waveform the one or more CPUs may not be available for use in calculating the waveform. Further an embodiment based on dedicated physical hardware may not require a CPU be present since only one GPU is required to implement an embodiment. Accordingly it should be noted that the computer system illustrated in represents only one embodiment and that other embodiments may be implemented using one or a combination of dedicated computing hardware general purpose computers and or any other computation resources having at least one GPU.

A particular example of the embodiment shown in may be comprised of a modern Personal Computer PC having an NVIDIA graphics card GPUs . The main computer system may have a four core CPU with eight GB of Random Access Memory RAM on the motherboard. The graphics card may have two GPU chips and graphic card RAM of two GB. Each of the GPU chips may have two hundred forty processors which are grouped together into thirty multiprocessors yielding a total of four hundred eighty processing elements that may perform an algorithm to produce and or modify a waveform. Different algorithms may be performed on each of the multiprocessors for a total of sixty different algorithms being performed at once.

Various embodiments may provide the control and management functions detailed herein via an application operating on a computer system or other electronic devices . Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product which may include a computer readable or machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program operate a computer or other electronic devices or computer system to perform a process or processes in accordance with the present invention. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to hard disk drives floppy diskettes optical disks Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs Digital Versatile Disc ROMS DVD ROMs Universal Serial Bus USB memory sticks magneto optical disks ROMs random access memories RAMs Erasable Programmable ROMs EPROMs Electrically Erasable Programmable ROMs EEPROMs magnetic optical cards flash memory or other types of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. The computer program instructions may reside and operate on a single computer electronic device or various portions may be spread over multiple computers devices that comprise a computer system. Moreover embodiments may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modern or network connection including both wired cabled and wireless connections .

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention except insofar as limited by the prior art.

