---

title: Tracking carbon output in agricultural applications
abstract: Novel tools and techniques to enhance and/or facilitate the collection, tracking, and/or verification of greenhouse gas emissions and/or savings, particularly (but not exclusively) in agricultural applications. Some tools, for example, can assist in the verification of carbon credits that may result from conservation tilling activities. Other embodiments can track greenhouse gas emissions that result from agricultural activities, including without limitation the application of pesticides, fertilizers, and/or other agricultural chemicals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504252&OS=08504252&RS=08504252
owner: Trimble Navigation Limited
number: 08504252
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101011
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to tracking greenhouse gas emissions and credits and more particularly to tools and techniques for tracking the atmospheric carbon impact or carbon equivalent impact of agricultural operations.

Concerns about climate change have resulted in increasing attention on tracking and controlling emissions of atmospheric carbon and other greenhouse gases. Much of this attention has been focused on two areas road going vehicles and industrial emissions. Other sectors of the economy however merit attention as well.

Merely by way of example agricultural activities can have a substantial impact on atmospheric carbon. Monika Rastogi et al. Emission of Carbon Dioxide from Soil vol. 82 no. 5 Mar. 10 2002 pp. 510 17 which is hereby incorporated by reference describes the complex interactions between agriculture and atmospheric carbon. For instance emissions from agricultural vehicles such as tractors combines and or the like increase atmospheric carbon in the presence of other greenhouse gases in the same way that emissions from other vehicles do. Moreover many agricultural chemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers and or the like contain nitrogen and or other compounds that may aerosolize and or evaporate during or after application thereby adding greenhouse gases to the environment. On the other side of the ledger agricultural crops serve as carbon sequestration vehicles in that they capture dioxide and convert the carbon into solid form.

While much of the sequestered carbon is harvested with the crops a substantial portion remains in the fields as stubble. This stubble can be beneficial in that it can add nutrients to the soil for future crops accordingly in many cases a field is tilled disked or otherwise turned over after harvest and or before planting season. The nature of the tilling activities can have a substantial impact on how much carbon remain sequestered and how much conversely is released into the atmosphere.

For example conventional tilling disturbs a significant amount of soil and therefore releases significant carbon into the atmosphere. Conservation tilling on the other hand seeks to disturb significantly less soil than traditional methods and therefore leave significantly more carbon undisturbed and sequestered.

As a result farmers can realize carbon credits through the use of conservation tilling. Merely by way of example the Chicago Climate Exchange CCX offers soil carbon management offsets to farmers to pledge to engage in conservation telling e.g. no till and strip till farming provided such activities meet the CCX s requirements. For example to qualify for soil carbon management offsets a tillage practice must leave at least two thirds of the soil surface undisturbed at least two thirds of the residue remaining on the field surface. The CCX also requires all carbon sequestration projects to be enrolled through a registered carbon offset aggregator and it requires all projects to be subject to verification.

A similar problem exists with respect to the application of agricultural chemicals. While it is known that agricultural chemicals can contribute greenhouse gases to the atmosphere the amount of greenhouse gases emitted during the application of such chemicals is difficult to measure because the emissions depend heavily on the nature of the application as well as prevailing environmental conditions. Accordingly it is difficult to measure and or verify any greenhouse gas emissions or savings related to the application of agricultural chemicals.

Presently the process of verification is a time intensive and therefore expensive process that requires manual inspection of tillage areas. Hence there is a need for more robust and or flexible tools and techniques for tracking and or verifying greenhouse gas emissions and or carbon sequestration projects including but not limited to farming activities. It would be helpful for such tools and techniques to be able to track additional carbon impacts of such activities e.g. vehicular emissions emissions from chemical application and or the like .

Certain embodiments therefore provide tools and techniques to enhance and or facilitate the collection tracking and or verification of greenhouse gas emissions and or savings particularly but not exclusively in agricultural applications. Some embodiments for example can assist in the verification of carbon credits that may result from conservation tilling activities. Other embodiments can track greenhouse gas emissions that result from agricultural activities including without limitation the application of pesticides fertilizers and or other agricultural chemicals.

One set of embodiments includes field components that are attendant to agricultural equipment in use these components can track agricultural activities as they occur and in some cases can communicate with a carbon tracking server to relay collected data for further analysis. Other embodiments include a carbon tracking server which can receive data from equipment in the field and can calculate emissions of carbon and carbon equivalents into the atmosphere. The carbon tracking server in some cases can also verify any carbon credits and provide relevant output e.g. for a user for a climate exchange and or the like.

In an aspect certain embodiments can provide a relatively high degree of precision in measuring agricultural activities. Merely by way of example some embodiments can track the location of a tilling implement to within sufficient precision to allow the system to calculate the effects of the activity itself on atmospheric carbon rather than estimating the effects based on an overall area of the tilled field. Similarly other embodiments can track agricultural spraying applications with a relatively high degree of precision which can not only enable the longitudinal tracking of chemicals applied over time to individual plants but can also allow for atmospheric carbon calculations that account for characteristics of the spraying activity rather than merely the net amount of chemicals applied to an entire field.

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

Merely by way of example one set of embodiments provides systems including without limitation systems for tracking and or verifying atmospheric impacts of agricultural activities. One exemplary system includes a mobile unit. In one embodiment the mobile unit comprises a position sensing device which may be configured to track the location of a conservation tilling activity. In some cases the mobile unit may also comprise a soil monitoring device which can be configured to monitor one or more soil conditions at the location of the conservation tilling activity. The mobile unit might further comprise a communication system that is configured to transmit a set of data about the location of the conservation tilling activity and one or more soil conditions at the location of the conservation tilling activity.

In some embodiments the system may comprise a server computer which may be in communication with a mobile unit. For example the server computer might comprise a second communication system configured to receive from a mobile unit a set of data about the location of the conservation tilling activity and one or more soil conditions at the location of the conservation tilling activity. In an aspect the server might also include a data store e.g. a database file system etc. for storing the set of data and or a processor in communication with the second communication system and the data store.

In another aspect the server computer might include a computer readable medium having stored thereon a set of instructions executable by the processor to cause the server computer to perform one or more operations. In an exemplary embodiment the set of instructions might comprise instructions to store the set of data at the data store and or instructions to calculate based at least in part on the set of data an amount of atmospheric carbon released by the conservation tilling activity. In another aspect the set of instructions might include instructions to verify based at least in part on the calculated amount of carbon released by the conservation tilling activity a carbon credit amount attributable to the conservation tilling activity and or instructions to generate output indicating the verified amount of carbon credit attributable to the conservation tilling activity.

In some embodiments the system might include both one or more mobile units and a server computer system. For example another exemplary system might comprise a mobile unit having a position sensing device configured to track a location of an agricultural spraying activity a chemical monitoring device configured to monitor an amount of an agricultural chemical sprayed as part of the agricultural spraying activity and or a first communication system configured to transmit a set of data about the location of agricultural spraying activity and the amount of the agricultural chemical being applied at the location of the agricultural spraying activity.

The system might further comprise a server computer in communication with the mobile unit comprising a second communication system configured to receive the set of data about the location of the agricultural spraying activity and the amount of the agricultural chemical being sprayed as part of the agricultural spraying activity. The server computer might further comprise a data store for storing the set of data and or a processor in communication with the second communication system and the data store.

In an aspect the server computer might further comprise a computer readable medium having stored thereon a set of instructions executable by the processor to cause the server computer to perform one or more operations. For example the set of instructions might include instructions to store the set of data at the data store instructions to calculate based at least in part on the set of data an amount of atmospheric carbon equivalent generated by the agricultural spraying activity instructions to verify based at least in part on the calculated amount of atmospheric carbon equivalent generated by the agricultural spraying activity and or instructions to generate output indicating the verified amount of carbon credit attributable to the agricultural spraying activity.

Another set of embodiments provides methods. An exemplary method might comprise tracking with a position sensing device a location of a conservation tilling activity. In some embodiments the method might further comprise monitoring with a monitoring device one or more soil conditions at the location of the conservation tilling activity and or calculating with a computer system an amount of atmospheric carbon released by the conservation tilling activity based at least in part on data about the location of the conservation tilling activity and the one or more soil conditions at the location of the conservation tilling activity. In other embodiments the method might also comprise verifying based at least in part on the calculated amount of carbon released by the conservation tilling activity a carbon credit amount attributable to the conservation tilling activity and or generating output indicating the verified amount of carbon credit attributable to the conservation tilling activity.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

A set of embodiments provides tools and techniques to enhance and or facilitates the collection tracking and or verification of greenhouse gas emissions and or savings particularly but not exclusively in agricultural applications. Some embodiments for example can assist in the verification of carbon credits that may result from conservation tilling activities. Other embodiments can track greenhouse gas emissions that result from agricultural activities including without limitation the application of pesticides fertilizers and or other agricultural chemicals.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

One set of embodiments includes field components that are attendant to agricultural equipment in use these components can track agricultural activities as they occur and in some cases can communicate with a carbon tracking server to relay collected data for further analysis. Other embodiments include a carbon tracking server which can receive data from equipment in the field and can calculate emissions of carbon and carbon equivalents into the atmosphere. The carbon tracking server in some cases can also verify any carbon credits and provide relevant output e.g. for a user for a climate exchange and or the like.

Merely by way of example illustrates a system that includes both field equipment and a carbon tracking server . The system of has the ability to track the activities of agricultural equipment such as a tractor operating in an agricultural area such as a field. While illustrates only a single tractor in one agricultural area it should be appreciated that various embodiments to track the activities of a variety of different numbers and types of agricultural equipment in many different areas. The system can track a number of different activities including without limitation tilling activities in which the ground of the agricultural area is disturbed to facilitate the planting of new seeds seeding activities in which new seeds are planted in the agricultural area spraying activities in which pesticides fertilizers and or other chemicals are applied to plants in the agricultural area and or harvesting activities.

As illustrated by the system includes a field communication system which provides communication between the carbon tracking server and the agricultural equipment. In one aspect the field communication system may be considered part of the carbon tracking server while in another aspect the field communication system may be separate from the server . In either case the field communication system allows for communication between the server and a mobile unit that is associated with the agricultural equipment and or an implement operated by the agricultural equipment. The implement can be any implement that is used for agricultural operations including without limitation a tiller disc harvester plow sprayer seeder and or the like.

In an embodiment a mobile unit includes any components necessary for tracking the desired agricultural activity. Merely by way of example in one embodiment a mobile unit might comprise a position sensing device configured to track the location of the activity. Such a device can include without limitation a global navigation satellite system GNSS of which the Global Positioning System GPS is one example which can provide position information that is absolute in other words relative to a known coordinate system . Other types of position sensing devices that can be employed by various embodiments include laser based and or optics based position determination systems of which the laser total stations and optical total stations commercially available from Trimble Navigation Ltd. are two respective examples. The position sensing device can also include additional equipment such as a camera that can provide position information about the location of an implement relative to the mobile unit itself and or another reference location to provide precise location information about the implement . In this regard a position sensing device might include a processor in the mobile unit or elsewhere that is configured to calculate position including in particular implement position relative to a known coordinate system.

In certain embodiments the mobile unit can also include one or more sensors to detect ambient environmental conditions which can affect carbon emission calculations. Merely by way of example if the system is designed to track tilling activities and or other agricultural activities that may have an impact on soil the mobile unit may comprise a soil monitoring device that is configured to monitor one or more soil conditions such as soil moisture level soil temperature and or the like during the tilling activity. Such a sensor may be positioned on the tilling implement to allow for measurement as part of the tilling operation. As another example the mobile unit might include sensors to monitor conditions such as ambient air temperature wind velocity and or direction atmospheric humidity and or air moisture content and or the like. Such sensors can provide data used to calculate dispersion of chemicals in spraying operations among other things. Some mobile units might include sensors to directly monitor carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions. An example of one such sensor is the CO2 D1 Solid State Carbon Dioxide Sensor commercially available from Alphasense Ltd. Great Notley UK

In other embodiments the mobile unit can include an image capture device such as a video camera still camera and or the like which can be used for visual identification purposes. Merely by way of example in some cases a camera on or in the mobile unit can be used to capture an image of the implement and image recognition software can then be used to identify the implement . The image capture device can also be used to create a visual record of the agricultural activities such a visual record may be used in the verification process as described in further detail below.

The mobile unit also can include a communication system which can be used to provide communication e.g. through the field communication system with the server . The communication between the mobile units communication system and the field communication system can be of any suitable type including without limitation wireless e.g. CDMA GSM 3G 4G WiFi WiMAX etc. wired ethernet PSTN Internet etc. and or the like. In some embodiments the system will use a combination of these technologies to provide mediation between the field communication system and the mobile unit . Merely by way of example the mobile unit might communicate wirelessly with a base station is proximate to the agricultural area and the base station might communicate with the field communication system over a public network such as the PSTN or the Internet.

In some cases the base station which could be but need not necessarily be a cellular base station WiFi router and or the like might be a sufficient distance from the agricultural area and more particularly the mobile unit to prevent adequate communication between the mobile unit and the base station and in such cases the system might include a relay station which can be used to relay signals between the mobile unit and the base station . This relay station may be located at a farmhouse etc. and or maybe otherwise located in the suitable location at or near the agricultural area . In some cases the agricultural area may have a plurality of relay stations to provide adequate coverage between the mobile unit and the base station . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of wireless topologies may be used to ensure adequate communication between the mobile unit and the base station .

The mobile unit may also include one or more sensors for measuring vehicle emissions from the agricultural equipment . In some cases for example these sensors might include emissions sensors which might be integrated with the exhaust system of the agricultural equipment fuel consumption sensors and or the like. Such sensors can be used to collect data about vehicle emissions which can be used by the system to refine calculations and or are estimates of overall atmospheric carbon impact of the agricultural activities as described in further detail below.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that modern agricultural equipment often has an engine and or implement bus that is configured for communication with a computer system for diagnostic and other purposes. In certain embodiments the mobile unit may be configured to interface with such a bus obtain relevant data from such a bus comprise such a bus and or be incorporated within such a bus.

In some cases a mobile unit may be mounted on installed in and or otherwise associated with a tractor or similar equipment . In other cases a mobile unit may be mounted on installed on and or otherwise associated with a particular implement such as a till sprayer seeder swather harvester and or the like. It should be noted that various embodiments can be used with implements that are designed for use with a general purpose tractor as well as for purpose built farm equipment that employs such implements or similar functionality. In further cases the system may include a first mobile unit and a second mobile unit . The second mobile unit for example might provide precise tracking of the activities of the implement while the first mobile unit might track other operations of the equipment and or might provide communication capabilities. For instance in some cases the second mobile unit might include relatively short range communication capabilities e.g. RFID Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 wired communication and or the like while the first mobile unit might provide enhanced processing capabilities and or long range communication capabilities e.g. 802.11 WiMAX cellular CDMA GSM etc. and or the like in addition to any short range communication capabilities necessary for communicating with the second mobile unit

In a particular embodiment the second mobile unit might comprise little more than an RFID tag which can be read by the first mobile unit in order to identify the implement is currently attached to the tractor . Merely by way of example commonly assigned copending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 177 772 and 12 177 777 both of which are incorporated herein by reference describe different techniques including RFID for identifying an implement any of such techniques can be used in accordance with various embodiments.

The first mobile unit then might store and or have access to a database that lists the characteristics of the implement . Thus by identifying the implement using information obtained from the RFID tag the first mobile unit can determine the properties of the implement such as the precise location relative to a reference point on the tractor of each tine of a tilling implement the spray head of a sprayer implement and or the like.

Of course the second mobile unit might also have additional functionality. Merely by way of example the second mobile unit may include a flow meter to detect an amount of chemical sprayed cameras or other sensors to perform visual identification as described below for example and or the like. It should be appreciated of course that either mobile unit or could be configured to function on its own and provide all the capabilities necessary for activity tracking and communication.

The carbon tracking server is illustrated functionally by and it should be appreciated that the functionality ascribed to various components of the server can be rearranged in accordance with various embodiments. As illustrated the server includes a database or other data store depending on the implementation which can be used to store data received from one or more mobile units as well as the results of the analysis and calculations performed by the carbon tracking server . The carbon tracking server in the illustrated embodiment also includes a calculation engine which performs the calculations and analysis described in further detail below to track the atmospheric carbon impact of agricultural activities and or any associated carbon credits.

The carbon tracking server may also include a user interface which can be used to provide interaction with a user for example to display output from the calculation engine . A variety of user interfaces may be provided in accordance with various embodiments including without limitation graphical user interfaces that display for a user display screens for providing information to the user and or receiving user input from a user.

Merely by way of example in some embodiments the server may be configured to communicate with a client computer via a dedicated application running on the client computer not shown on in this situation the user interface might be displayed by the client computer based on data and or instructions provided by the server . In this situation providing the user interface might comprise providing instructions and or data to cause the client computer to display the user interface. In other embodiments the user interface may be provided from a web site e.g. by providing a set of one or more web pages which might be displayed in a web browser running on the user computer and or might be served by a web server not shown on . In various embodiments the carbon tracking server might comprise the web server and or be in communication with the web server such that the carbon tracking server provides data to the web server to be incorporated in web pages served by the web server for reception and or display by a browser at the user computer.

In certain embodiments the carbon tracking server further includes a data interface which can provide data interchange capabilities with third party systems such as a climate exchange and or carbon credit aggregator and or a regulatory body such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency or International Panel on Climate Change IPCC to name a few examples. The data interface may implement any of a variety of application programming interfaces API web services and or data exchange formats such as XML and or other structured formats proprietary binary and or text formats and or the like.

In an aspect certain embodiments can provide a relatively high degree of precision in measuring agricultural activities. Merely by way of example some embodiments can track the location of a tilling implement to within sufficient precision to allow the system to calculate the effects of the activity itself on atmospheric carbon rather than estimating the effects based on an overall area of the tilled field. For instance in some embodiments a GNSS device at the mobile unit can be used to identify within a precision of approximately 3 to 6 cm the location of the mobile unit itself. Further based on an identification of the implement the mobile unit can calculate the position of the implement relative to the mobile unit . From this data the mobile unit calculate the position of the implement to within approximately the same precision. As described below these location fixes can be performed iteratively to calculate a path of the implement . From this path in addition to the known width of the implement the area of soil actually disturbed by the implement in the agricultural area can be calculated.

Similarly other embodiments can track agricultural spraying applications with a relatively high degree of precision which can not only enable the longitudinal tracking of chemicals applied over time to individual plants but can also allow for atmospheric carbon calculations that account for characteristics of the spraying activity rather than merely the net amount of chemicals applied to an entire field.

As noted above the carbon tracking server is illustrated functionally in and a variety of other configurations are possible within the scope of several embodiments. Merely by way of example although illustrates the carbon tracking server monolithically the carbon tracking server might comprise two or more computer systems with the functionality of the carbon tracking server distributed among them. Similarly while illustrates the carbon tracking server as being remote from the agricultural area in other embodiments the carbon tracking server might be situated locally to the agricultural area .

Moreover in certain embodiments some or all of the functionality of the carbon tracking server might reside in one or more of the mobile units . Merely by way of example in some embodiments a mobile unit might comprise a sensor package as described above as well as a processor that is capable of performing some or all of the functions of the carbon tracking server . Depending on the embodiment a variety of different processors could be used for example in some cases a mobile unit might comprise a workstation or server class processor and related hardware such that the mobile unit effectively comprises and or is incorporated within a laptop workstation or server computer which could be configured for installation within an agricultural vehicle for example. In other cases mobile hardware may be sufficient to perform these functions such that a device similar to a personal digital assistant perhaps with wireless connectivity and or a smart phone which might be installed in and or local to the agricultural vehicle can serve as a carbon tracking server.

A variety of techniques can be used to identify the implement. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the implement may be tagged with an identification tag such as an RFID tag WiFi transceiver etc. and a mobile unit may comprise hardware that can interrogate the tag and or otherwise receive information from the tag and the implement can be identified based on information received from the tag. As another example a mobile unit may be exclusively associated with the implement and the identity of the mobile unit itself and serve as a proxy for the identity of the implement. In other embodiments an image capture device can be used to capture an image of the implement and identification may be made based on this image e.g. through pattern recognition techniques . In still other embodiments the mobile unit may receive user input e.g. via a user interface at the mobile unit and or another device .

At block the method comprises obtaining one or more location fixes. Any type of position sensing device can be used to obtain such location fixes. As noted above in some embodiments a mobile unit may comprise a GNSS receiver and or other position sensing equipment and the location of the implement can be derived from position data received by the mobile unit and or information about the relative positions of the mobile unit and the implement which can be determined based on the identity of the implement. Accordingly the method may further comprise if necessary determining a position of the implement relative to the mobile unit and or the position sensing device with which location fixes are obtained block . Alternatively and or additionally the implement itself may be equipped with position sensing equipment and the location of the implement may be determined directly from the location fixes.

The method further comprises tracking the location of the agricultural activity block . The location of the agricultural activity can be as large as a field or other agricultural area or as small as the precise location of a location fix limited only by the precision of the position sensing device s used.

In one aspect the location of the agricultural activity can be tracked from the location fixes of the implement. In certain embodiments multiple location fixes are obtained over the duration of the agricultural activity and the location of the agricultural activity can be thought of in such embodiments the location of each of the fixes to the precision allowed by the position sensing device and or as the path defined by these multiple location fixes with a cross section defined by the width of the implement and or those portions of the implement that actually disturb the soil . In particular embodiments the length of the path traversed by the agricultural vehicle as defined by the location fixes may be tracked and or multiplied by the width of the implement and or the effective cross sectional width of the agricultural activity in cases such as spraying etc. can be used to determine a surface area of land affected by the agricultural activity.

Hence based on the location of the agricultural activity the method can include tracking portions of the soil actually disturbed by the agricultural activity block as opposed to merely considering the entire field to be disturbed by the agricultural activity. Hence certain embodiments can provide a much greater level of precision when identifying exactly how much soil is disturbed by agricultural activity such as conservation tilling. For example using the techniques described herein embodiments can track the portions of a tilled field that are actually disturbed by the tilling activity to within a horizontal precision of about 15 cm and in some cases to within a horizontal position of about 3 cm.

The method may further comprise creating a visual record of the agricultural activity and or its location block . In an embodiment a camera or other image capture device which may be integrated in and or controlled by a mobile unit can be used to create a visual record for example by capturing an image of the tilling activity. Merely by way of example in a set of embodiments every time the system obtains a location fix it might also capture an image of the implement performing the agricultural activity. In another embodiment the system correlates the visual record of the activity with positional data such as one or more location fixes block . In this way for example in a carbon trading scheme requiring verification of an agricultural activity such as conservation tilling the system can create both a record demonstrating the area that has been tilled by conservation tilling and visual evidence that conservation tilling was actually performed in the specified area. In an aspect the system might maintain a series of database records each corresponding to a location fix and the system might further store the visual records e.g. images in each record in order to correlate the visual record of the activity with the position data the location fixes .

In some embodiments the method further comprises monitoring one or more soil conditions and or other environmental conditions as described below at the location of the agricultural activity block . Merely by way of example a mobile unit might be configured to collect data from one or more sensors including without limitation soil moisture sensors soil temperature sensors ambient air temperature sensors air moisture content humidity sensors wind sensors carbon dioxide sensors and or the like. In a set of embodiments the system might collect data on one or more ambient conditions including soil conditions every time a location fix is obtained thus generating a plurality of soil condition samples block . Each of these samples may be correlated with the corresponding location fix for example as described above with respect to correlating visual records with positional data.

As noted above in some cases a mobile unit might be equipped with vehicle emission sensors fuel consumption sensors and or the like. Similarly the method might comprise tracking greenhouse gas emissions of an agricultural vehicle involved in the agricultural activity block . Greenhouse gases might comprise any of a variety of emitted compounds recognized by governmental or other authorities as contributing to climate change as well as any other pollutants the monitoring of which is deemed appropriate. A variety of systems and techniques are available for monitoring vehicle emissions and any such systems or techniques can be used in accordance with various embodiments.

At block the method comprises transmitting collected data from the mobile system to be received by the carbon tracking server. In an aspect the collected data might comprise a plurality of location fixes together with correlated visual records soil monitoring sample data and or the like. Other data including date time information identification of the agricultural activity and or an entity performing the activity vehicle emissions data and or the like may be collected and transmitted in this fashion. In another aspect the data might comprise one or more data sets each of which includes data about the location of the agricultural activity and one or more soil conditions at the location of the agricultural activity. Each data set might include other relevant data including without limitation any of the data collected by the mobile unit that is relevant to the processes undertaken by the carbon tracking server.

Any available communication technology including without limitation those described with respect to and herein may be used for transmitting the collected data. Additionally a variety of transmission techniques may be employed. Merely by way of example the mobile unit might be configured to transmit data about an agricultural activity once the activity has been completed either wirelessly and or via a wired connection which might be made when the equipment is returned from the field . Alternatively and or additionally the mobile unit might buffer the data and send the data when the buffer has been filled and or when communication with the server is available. In other embodiments the mobile unit might transmit the data in real time or near real time as it is collected.

The method might further comprise identifying the individual plants or areas of land to which the agricultural chemical is applied block . Merely by way of example as described above a camera or other image capture device can be used to capture one or more images of the location of an agricultural activity such as chemical spraying . Using pattern recognition techniques the system can use the captured images to identify e.g. by species and or category such as food and or fiber plants or other crops weeds etc. the plants that are subject to the agricultural activity. Other techniques and or devices may be used to identify plants as well. In some cases the identification of a particular plant or set of plants may be performed prior to undertaking the agricultural activity with respect to that plant or set of plants this identification can inform a determination of what type of agricultural activity should be taken e.g. what kind of chemical should be sprayed on the plant. For example if a plant is identified as a weed herbicide can be applied to the plant while if the plant is identified as a crop fertilizer can be applied to the plant.

Similar to the method described above the method might also include creating a visual record of the agricultural activity and or its location block and or correlating the visual record with positional data block . This information might also be correlated with plant identification information e.g. information about a species and or category of plant identified at the location .

The method in some embodiments further comprises monitoring a spraying activity at the location block . In an aspect monitoring a spraying activity at the location comprises monitoring e.g. using a flow monitor tank volume sensor etc. an amount of chemical or water etc. sprayed at the location of the agricultural activity. This location might be as large as a field or other agricultural area or as small as the location of a single plant limited only by the precision available from the position sensing device used. Monitoring a spraying activity therefore can comprise monitoring and or recording data about the amount sprayed and or the type of substance sprayed.

At block the method comprises monitoring one or more environmental conditions at or near the location of the agricultural activity. Such environmental conditions can include soil conditions as described above as well as prevailing atmospheric conditions at the location of the agricultural activity. Such atmospheric conditions can include without limitation air temperature relative humidity and or air moisture content wind velocity and or direction and or the like. Such environmental conditions can affect the dispersion and or vaporization of the applied agricultural chemicals and by extension the effect of those chemicals on atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gas contributions to the environment. Monitoring of the environmental conditions and in particular atmospheric conditions may be performed by a mobile unit and or may be performed by a separate weather station. In some cases monitoring atmospheric and or other environmental conditions may including acquiring weather data from public or private sources.

The method can also include like the method described above tracking vehicle emissions block and or transmitting data block . Similar to the data sets described with respect to the method the data transmitted in accordance with the method might comprise one or more data sets each of which comprise information about a location of a spraying activity or other agricultural activity along with information about the type and or quantity of chemical sprayed at that location and or information about environmental conditions at that location at the time of spraying.

Generally once the data has been transmitted by the mobile unit it will be received by a carbon tracking server. illustrates a method that may be performed by the carbon tracking server upon receiving data from a mobile unit or another device. As noted above a carbon tracking server can process data received from a number of mobile units some or all of which may be operating in the same agricultural area. Accordingly it should be appreciated that while the method is illustrated with respect to one data set received from one mobile unit a carbon tracking server could perform various procedures of the method in either serial or parallel fashion on a plurality of data sets each of which might be received from different mobile units and or might be associated with different agricultural operators. As noted above of course a carbon tracking server may be integrated with a mobile unit in which case the transmission and or reception of data may be performed locally i.e. within different components in the integrated device and or may be omitted altogether. 

The method comprises receiving one or more sets of data such as the data sets transmitted by mobile units as described with respect to the methods and as well as any additional data relevant to the carbon tracking server s calculations block . Some or all of the received data may be stored by the carbon tracking server block e.g. in a database or other appropriate data store. This data then can be used by the carbon tracking server to perform analysis of the atmospheric carbon or carbon equivalent impact of the agricultural activities and or to verify an amount of carbon credits attributable to the agricultural activities as described in further detail below.

At block the method comprises calculating an area of land subject to the agricultural activity. In an aspect this value can be calculated from the location fixes collected by the mobile unit. Merely by way of example with respect to a tilling activity the plurality location fixes can be used to identify a path of a tilling implement as described above. This path multiplied by the width of the tilling implement and or the individual widths of multiple groundbreaking elements within the tilling implement if appropriate can be used to calculate an area of the ground that was subject to the tilling activity.

The method might further comprise calculating an amount of atmospheric carbon and or a carbon equivalent amount generated by the agricultural activity block . With respect to tilling and other groundbreaking activities there exist published tables that specify an amount of atmospheric carbon released per unit area of agricultural activity and the appropriate values for activity undertaken can be obtained from such tables. By multiplying these values by the calculated area of activity the carbon tracking server can calculate an amount of atmospheric carbon released by the activity.

For example an aspect of some embodiments the amount of surface area and or depth affected by the agricultural activity can be used to calculate and or estimate an amount of carbon equivalent gases emitted by the activity. In some cases published data may be used to perform these calculations estimates. For example U. M. Sainju et al. Soil Carbon Dioxide Emission as Influenced by Irrigation Tillage Cropping System and Nitrogen Fertilization Washington D.C. Jun. 5 8 1995 pp. 1086 98 which is hereby incorporated by reference provides data on how various agricultural activities affect carbon release rates per surface area affected these and similar data can be used to estimate carbon release from tilling and other agricultural activities. For example in the conservation tilling context the amount of carbon actually released based on the surface area actually affected by the tilling can be compared with the amount that would have been released if the entire agricultural area had been tilled e.g. using conventional tilling techniques . The difference between these values can give rise to carbon credits. In other embodiments the actual amount of carbon dioxide emitted can be measured e.g. using carbon dioxide sensors in a mobile unit and can be used to perform direct measurement on the amount of carbon dioxide emitted.

Similarly with respect to the spraying and or application of chemicals there are published data about the volatility of common agricultural chemicals under various environmental conditions and or the contribution of such chemicals to atmospheric carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions. Using such data along with data concerning the type and amount of chemicals applied along with relevant data about prevailing environmental conditions at the time of application the system can calculate an amount of atmospheric carbon and or carbon equivalents released through the application of the agricultural chemicals. Merely by way of example many agricultural chemicals contain significant amounts of nitrogen and calculation of the amount of atmospheric carbon released by spraying an agricultural chemical might comprise calculating an amount of nitrogen released into the atmosphere through application of the agricultural chemical.

The calculation of atmospheric carbon and or carbon equivalents generated by the agricultural activity may take account of other factors as well. Merely by way of example some embodiments will track vehicle fuel consumption and or emissions as noted above. The greenhouse gas emissions of the vehicle can be calculated from the fuel consumption and or vehicle emissions using any of a variety of techniques some of which are described in provisional U.S. Pat. App. 61 298 779 and are incorporated herein by reference. For example data about carbon output of common agricultural vehicles is often published and a mobile unit can track parameters such as travel time operating time and the like and using published data calculate estimated values of carbon output from the vehicle. In other situations the mobile unit might be in communication with a vehicle data bus which can allow for more precise tracking of fuel consumption and or direct monitoring of vehicle emissions from which carbon output can be derived using conventional techniques.

In an aspect of some embodiments therefore calculating the amount of atmospheric carbon generated by the agricultural activity can include calculating a carbon equivalent amount generated by the vehicle based least in part on the greenhouse gas emissions of the vehicle. Similarly a variety of other factors may be taken into account when calculating atmospheric carbon generated by the agricultural activity. As noted above an entity involved in agricultural operations may be eligible for carbon credits if that entity undertakes conservation practices such as conservation tilling. For example if an entity engages in conservation tilling instead of traditional tilling that entity may be eligible for carbon credits based on the amount of land tilled by conservation tilling rather than conventional tilling and or on the amount of carbon released by the conservation tilling as compared to the amount of carbon that would have been released by conventional tilling. To qualify for such carbon credits however the conservation activity often needs to be verified to ensure that the entity is actually engaged in the conservation practice.

Accordingly the method may comprise verifying a carbon credit amount that is attributable to the monitored agricultural activity block . In one aspect this verification may depend on the calculated area of land that was subject to the agricultural activity and or the calculated amount of carbon carbon equivalents released into the atmosphere by the agricultural activity. In another aspect the verification may depend on visual record of the agricultural activity which can provide evidence for example that conservation tilling as opposed to traditional tilling was undertaken.

Thus for example verifying a carbon credit amount can comprise calculating an amount of carbon credits attributable to a presumed agricultural activity as well as verifying that the presumed agricultural activity occurred and or the amount of the agricultural activity that actually occurred. The amount of carbon credits attributable to the agricultural activity may be specified by a prevailing market rate by government regulation and or the like. The amount of credits that can be attributed to the activity therefore may be calculated by multiplying the amount of credit available per unit of activity whether specified by land area amount of soil actually disturbed and or the like by the amount of activity undertaken as reflected by the data received from the mobile units and or information derived from such data.

At block the method comprises generating output. In accordance with various embodiments many different kinds of output may be generated. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the output might comprise information about the agricultural activity and or the amount of activity undertaken such as the amount of land tilled the type and or amount of chemicals applied prevailing environmental conditions the amount of fuel used by agricultural vehicles involved in the activity the fuel usage rate and or emissions of those vehicles and or the like . In other embodiments the output might comprise information about the amount of atmospheric carbon and or carbon equivalents generated by the agricultural activity. In yet other embodiments the output might comprise information indicating the verified amount of carbon credits attributable to the agricultural activity. In further embodiments the output might comprise data pertaining to a carbon sequestration rate of the agricultural activity such as a conservation tilling activity .

In some cases the output might include yield monitoring data e.g. data on the amount of crop harvested which can be used to derive information on the amount of carbon fixing performed by the crops. Such data can also be used when calculating the impact on atmospheric carbon of certain agricultural activities or the carbon credits attributable to such activities. The processes of the Calvin Cycle for carbon fixation are plants is well known and most plants use either Cor Ccarbon fixation to fix atmospheric carbon in order to add biomass to the plant.

The amount of carbon fixed by a particular crop plant will depend first and foremost on the mass yield of the harvested crop but also several other factors that can include plant genotype soil chemistry soil moisture ambient temperature relative humidity barometric pressure and nutrient inputs. If such factors can be measured and or estimated the amount of atmospheric carbon fixed in that crop can be determined e.g. calculated and or estimated for example by associating these factors with the geography and time of the agricultural activity and then establishing a correlation between these factors and the crop biochemistry and or yield.

Because various embodiments provide sensors that can measure many of these factors as described in further detail above certain embodiments can include carbon fixation of the harvested crop in the calculation of the overall effect of the agricultural activity on atmospheric carbon and or in the calculation of carbon credits attributable to the activity. Such information can also be provided by the carbon tracking server as output.

Thus based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art can appreciate that a variety of different types of output may be generated in accordance with different embodiments.

Likewise a variety of different output techniques may be used to generate output in accordance with different embodiments. Merely by way of example in one embodiment generating output might comprise transmitting data pertaining to the verified amount of carbon credit attributable to the conservation tilling activity block . Such data may be transmitted through data interface such as the data interface described above and or through any other appropriate data exchange technique including without limitation a web service electronic mail and or the like. This data can be transmitted to a regulatory body climate exchange carbon credit aggregator and or the like such output can facilitate the monitoring trading etc. of such carbon credits using conventional techniques.

In another set of embodiments generating output can comprise producing output for a user including without limitation producing output to be displayed for the user. Accordingly in certain embodiments the method comprises providing a user interface block which can be used to display generated output for a user s review.

As noted above a user interface to allow interaction between a user and carbon tracking server or another computer that can provide the generated output for the user. For example the user interface can be used to output information for a user e.g. by displaying the information on a display device printing information with a printer playing audio through a speaker etc. the user interface can also function to receive input from a user e.g. using standard input devices such as mice and other pointing devices motion capture devices touchpads and or touchscreens keyboards e.g. numeric and or alphabetic microphones etc. The procedures undertaken to provide a user interface therefore can vary depending on the nature of the implementation in some cases providing a user interface can comprise displaying the user interface on a display device in other cases however in which the user interface is displayed on a device remote from the computer system such as on a client computer wireless device etc. providing the user interface might comprise formatting data for transmission to such a device and or transmitting receiving and or interpreting data that is used to create the user interface on the remote device. Alternatively and or additionally the user interface on a client computer or any other appropriate user device might be a web interface in which the user interface is provided through one or more web pages that are served from a computer system and or a web server in communication with the computer system and are received and displayed by a web browser on the client computer or other capable user device . The web pages can display output from the computer system and receive input from the user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create these Web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic HTML and or AJAX technologies to name but a few examples.

As noted above in an aspect of certain embodiments the user interface provides interaction between a user and a computer system. Hence when this document describes procedures for displaying or otherwise providing information to a user or to receiving input from a user the user interface may be the vehicle for the exchange of such input output.

The method then can also comprise instructions to provide for the display of data which can include without limitation any of the different types of output described above for a user block . As noted above a variety of different user interfaces can be used to provide for the display of data for a user. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the system might comprise a web server and the method might comprise causing the web server to generate a web page comprising the output.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

Certain embodiments operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available and or free or proprietary protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can include a local area network LAN including without limitation a fiber network an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a wireless wide area network WWAN a virtual network such as a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments can also include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can be configured with one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming and or scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration dedicated database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with various embodiments such as output generated by a carbon tracking server to name one example. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as one or more web pages comprising HTML JavaScript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement various disclosed methods incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server .

It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

