---

title: Systems and methods for protecting a receiving antenna from interference by a transmitting antenna
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for systems and methods for adaptively canceling interfering signals generated by a transmission antenna. Under one aspect, a system includes: an auxiliary antenna co-located with the main antenna, the auxiliary antenna configured to transmit an auxiliary signal to the victim antenna; a sensing antenna located on a line-of-sight path between the transmission antenna and the victim antenna, the sensing antenna configured to receive a composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal, and to output a first signal based on the received composite; a controller comprising an input coupled to the sensing antenna and configured to receive the first signal, the controller being configured to adjust at least one of an amplitude, a phase, a polarization, and a frequency characteristic of the auxiliary signal based on the first signal so as to reduce the composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the sensing antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08614644&OS=08614644&RS=08614644
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08614644
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100422
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 09 C 0001 awarded by the United States Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application generally relates to systems and methods for reducing interference caused by a transmitting antenna in a nearby receiving antenna.

A signal generated by a transmitting antenna may cause interference for a nearby receiving antenna i.e. a so called victim antenna which may inhibit the victim s ability to receive signals. Specifically when a transmission antenna is configured to transmit a main signal to a target antenna sidelobes of the main signal may extend in a variety of directions and in particular in the direction of the victim. The signal received by the victim antenna depends on the transmitted power level the gain of the sidelobe level of the transmission antenna the separation between the transmission and victim antennas and the characteristics of the victim receiving antenna. The sidelobes of the transmission antenna have an angular dependence so that changes in the transmission antenna s target antenna location results in changes in the signal level received by the victim antenna. Thus the interference received by the victim antenna may vary with time and may exceed an interference level that disrupts the operation of the victim antenna.

Several prior art systems for reducing unintentional interference with victim antenna reception have been developed. Such systems typically involve either modifying the transmission antenna so as to reduce the presence of sidelobes or modifying the victim antenna so as to cancel received interference. One example of a transmitter side modification is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 781 845 to Dybdal et al. That patent discloses a system including several antenna elements and adaptive weighting circuitry which adjusts weighting coefficients during transmission. That patent addresses an adaptive antenna design having broad coverage requirements that illuminates the surrounding terrain resulting in reflected signal components referred to as multipath that may interfere and degrade reception of the signal received by a target receiver. The antenna elements also sample the reflected multipath signals which are cross correlated with the transmitted signal. This cross correlation is minimized so as to reduce the transmitted strength of an interfering multipath signal. However when the transmission antenna is more directive than the broad coverage antenna described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 781 845 the antenna system may be installed in a fixed location whose siting is specifically examined and selected to minimize multipath.

An example of a receiver side modification is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 440 308 to Dybdal et al. which discloses a main antenna that receives a desired signal through a main beam and interference at an angle different than that of the main beam. Auxiliary antennas also receive the interference signals and the output of the main antenna is cross correlated with the elements of the auxiliary antenna. This cross correlation is minimized so as to reduce the interference signal received by the main antenna. However such receiver side modifications may be expensive or complicated to implement and further require positive action by the owner operator of the victim antenna. In addition such receiver side modifications result in creating pattern nulls in the victim s antenna that may undesirably reduce the victim s antenna coverage.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for protecting a victim antenna from interference by a transmission antenna. Such systems and methods include co locating an auxiliary transmission antenna system with a main transmission antenna transmitting a main signal to a target antenna as well as locating a sensing antenna on a line of sight path between the transmission antenna and the victim receiving antenna. As the main antenna generates the main signal it may concurrently generate interfering signals that arrive at the victim antenna. The sensing antenna receives these interfering signals and transmits information about these signals to a controller that is operable communication with the auxiliary antenna system. The controller provides a signal to the auxiliary antenna that causes the auxiliary antenna to transmit a signal to the victim antenna that substantially cancels out the interfering signal from the main antenna. For example the controller may adjust the amplitude phase polarization and or frequency characteristics of the signal transmitted from the auxiliary antenna system so as to reduce the sum of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the sensing antenna. As such interference to the victim antenna may be reduced adaptively without the need to modify the victim antenna or limiting its operation.

Under one aspect a system for reducing interference generated by a main antenna and received by a victim antenna includes an auxiliary antenna system co located with the main antenna the auxiliary antenna configured to transmit an auxiliary signal to the victim antenna a sensing antenna located on a line of sight path between the transmission antenna and the victim antenna the sensing antenna configured to receive a composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal and to output a first signal based on the received composite a controller comprising an input coupled to the sensing antenna and configured to receive the first signal the controller being configured to adjust at least one of an amplitude a phase a polarization and a frequency characteristic of the auxiliary signal based on the first signal so as to reduce the composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the sensing antenna.

In some embodiments the main antenna generates a main signal and is configured to output a second signal based on the main signal and wherein the controller is further configured to receive the second signal. The controller may include a correlator configured to cross correlate the first signal and the second signal and to output third and fourth signals based on the cross correlation. These third and fourth signals are the orthogonally polarized samples of the composite signal from the main antenna s sidelobe and the auxiliary antenna system. The correlator operates with the sample of the signal from the transmission antenna and the signals received by the main and auxiliary antenna system. Other signals in the environment such as those intended for the victim antenna are not coherent with the signals from the main and auxiliary antennas. Consequently the correlation outputs depend on only the interfering signals from the main and auxiliary antennas so that the controller does not respond to other signals in the environment. The correlation outputs are an error signal in a control system sense and the controller functions to minimize the error thus reducing the power density of the composite signal and hence the interference received by the victim antenna. The controller thus may include a processor configured to receive the third and fourth signals and compute an error value based on the third and fourth signals. The processor may be further configured to obtain a weighting coefficient that reduces the computed error value. The controller may further include an output coupled to the auxiliary antenna the processor providing the weighting coefficient to the auxiliary antenna via the output the provided weighting coefficient adjusting one or more characteristics of the auxiliary signal.

Some embodiments include a plurality of auxiliary antennas. At least one auxiliary antenna of the plurality may be a different type of antenna than at least one other auxiliary antenna of the plurality. For example at least one auxiliary antenna of the plurality comprises a reflector antenna positioned behind the main antenna and at least one other auxiliary antenna of the plurality comprises a horn antenna. The plurality of auxiliary antennas may be mounted to a frame to which the main antenna is mounted.

Under another aspect a method for reducing interference generated by a main antenna and received by a victim antenna includes co locating an auxiliary antenna with the main antenna locating a sensing antenna on a line of sight path between the main antenna and the victim antenna transmitting an auxiliary signal from the auxiliary antenna to the victim antenna receiving with the sensing antenna a composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal and based on a sample of the received composite adjusting at least one of an amplitude a phase a polarization and a frequency characteristic of the auxiliary signal so as to reduce the composite of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the sensing antenna.

In practice a threshold level of interference may be established that allows acceptable operation of the victim s system. The cross correlation product is a measure of the incident power density of the composite signal from the main antenna and the auxiliary antenna system. This measured cross correlation level may be compared to the a priori determined threshold level to determine compliance with the required interference suppression from the main antenna and its adaptively controlled auxiliary antenna. This cross correlated output may be recorded as a function of time to document compliance during the periods of operation of the main antenna.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for protecting a victim antenna from interference by a transmission antenna. As described in greater detail below an auxiliary antenna is co located with the transmission antenna and a sensing antenna is located on the line of sight between the transmission and victim antennas. The sensing antenna is configured so as to receive approximately the same signals as does the victim antenna. As the transmission antenna transmits a signal to a target the sensing antenna receives approximately the same amplitude phase polarization and frequency content of interference as does the victim antenna. Based on the interference received by the sensing antenna the auxiliary antenna generates a signal that reduces or cancels that interference without significantly impairing the main signal transmitted from the transmission antenna to its target. Coordination between the sensing and auxiliary antennas may be achieved using a controller in operable communication with the two antennas that cross correlates the signal received by the sensing antenna with the signal generated by the auxiliary antenna and that modifies the signal generated by the auxiliary antenna so as to reduce or minimize the cross correlation.

The systems and methods provided herein usefully may be employed by an entity broadcasting a signal that undesirably interferes with one or more receiving antennas. Such an entity may for example be motivated to cancel that interference as completely as possible with little to no burden on the owners operators of the receiving antennas. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the sensing antenna is located on the line of sight path between the transmission and the victim antenna and thus may provide a far more accurate sample of the interfering signals received by the victim than achievable under the 845 patent in which antenna elements positioned with the main antenna are used to sample the interference. Further in accordance with the present invention here the owner operator of the victim receiving antenna need not take any positive action for interference at the victim antenna to be reduced let alone undergo a radical modification of the victim antenna whereas under the 308 patent the receiving antenna must be significantly modified so as to reduce received interference thus imposing a burden on the owner operator of the receiving antenna.

First an exemplary system and a method that may be executed using such a system will be described. Further below some examples of alternative embodiments will be provided.

Main transmission antenna may be any suitable antenna configured to transmit a main signal S to target receiving antenna . For example in the illustrated embodiment main antenna is a large ground terminal reflector antenna mounted on frame and configured to direct a main lobe of signal S toward target antenna . Target antenna may be any suitable terrestrial or non terrestrial antenna e.g. a satellite antenna as illustrated in . As is familiar to those of ordinary skill the main lobe of main signal S also is also accompanied by sidelobes directed in a variety of directions other than toward target antenna . These sidelobes also illuminate victim antenna and their level may vary as main antenna is repositioned to follow changes in the location of target antenna . Victim antenna may be any suitable antenna configured to receive signal S from separate transmission sources not shown . If the operating frequency bands of victim antenna and main antenna overlap that is if desired signal S and interfering signal S contain frequency components in common then signal S may detrimentally affect the ability of victim antenna to satisfactorily receive desired signal S. For example victim antenna may receive the sum of signals S and S but may be unable to discriminate between the two. As such the presence of signal S degrades the performance of victim antenna with respect to signal S. In practice a threshold level of signal S may be established that allows acceptable reception of signal S. Commonly this threshold level is a predetermined signal to noise plus interference ratio SNIR where S is the level of the desired victim signal S noise is the system noise temperature of the victim s system and I is the interference from the main antenna that is adaptively reduced by the signals from the auxiliary antenna system and .

System is configured to reduce the effect of interfering signal S on the performance of victim antenna . Specifically sensing antenna is located on the line of sight path between the transmission antenna and the victim antenna so as to receive a representative sampling of the signals received by victim antenna e.g. signals S S and S. Auxiliary transmission antennas are co located with main antenna so as to generate an auxiliary signal S that reduces the detrimental effect of interfering signal S on the operation of victim antenna . In the illustrated embodiment auxiliary transmission antennas are coupled to frame so that if frame rotates main antenna so as to adjust the direction of main signal S auxiliary antennas are rotated likewise. Controller which is in operable communication with sensing antenna auxiliary antennas and main antenna adjusts the amplitude phase polarization and or frequency characteristics of signal S so as to reduce the sum of signals S and S received by sensing antenna and thus also reduce the sum of signals S and S received by victim antenna . Such adjustment may be performed once may be updated periodically or may even be updated continuously so as to adaptively and dynamically reduce the effect of interfering signal on the performance of victim antenna . Continuous updates may be required when main antenna is repositioned to respond to changes in the location of the target receiving antenna in accordance to the angular variation of the sidelobes of main antenna . Note that because interfering signal S may include a mixture of orthogonally polarized signal components preferably sensing antenna and auxiliary antennas are configured and calibrated to respectively sense and generate a mixture of orthogonally polarized signal components.

Sensing antenna is usefully positioned at a location that is sufficiently remote from main antenna and sufficiently close to victim antenna to obtain a representative sampling of the different signals S S S incident on the victim antenna. For example sensing antenna may be positioned at a similar elevation as victim antenna with a limited azimuth coverage that would encompass potential multipath sources. The composite signal contributions S S S and the incident power density at victim antenna and sensing antenna may be corrupted by multipath. Such multipath contributions may in some circumstances complicate the cancellation of interfering signals so preferably both victim antenna and sensing antenna are positioned in locations that reduce multipath interference. Additionally the antenna gain and electronics insertion gain of sensing antenna are preferably calibrated so as to enhance the antenna s measurement of the composite signal contributions to allow comparison with the predetermined threshold SNIR value upon which controller bases the interference reducing signals generated by auxiliary antennas as described in greater detail below. Note that it is assumed that sensing antenna does not receive significant contributions from main signal S which is directed toward target antenna .

Auxiliary antennas may include any suitable transmission antennas and may be mounted to the same frame as is main antenna so as to maintain alignment between signal S generated by auxiliary antenna and interference signal S from sidelobes generated by main antenna . For example if frame rotates main antenna to point at a new target then frame also may simultaneously rotate auxiliary antennas by the same amount. Auxiliary antennas also are usefully configured to generate an auxiliary signal S that does not significantly affect the effective radiated power ERP of main signal S from main lobe generated by main antenna . Although the gain of sidelobes is lower than the gain of main lobe auxiliary signal S coherently interacts both with main signal S and interfering signal S. The amplitude of auxiliary signal S is preferably maintained at a sufficiently low level that main signal S is not significantly spectrally degraded. That is auxiliary signal S from auxiliary antennas which may be viewed as multipath signal components that may potentially interfere with main signal S from main antenna is sufficiently low that signal S received by target antenna is not significantly degraded. In one example auxiliary signal S is maintained at a sufficiently low amplitude that signal S received by target antenna is degraded by less than a bit error rate BER basis e.g. changes in signal S resulting from the illumination of auxiliary antenna signal S in the direction of target receiving antenna have a low or minimal impact on the bit error rate at the target receiving antenna as determined by the threshold SNIR value. As such auxiliary signal S may be viewed as causing at most a minor perturbation on main signal S. Various issues associated with perturbations of main signal S are described in greater detail below.

Method includes co locating an auxiliary transmission antenna with the main transmission antenna . For example as illustrated in auxiliary antenna may be coupled to the support structure of main antenna in such a way that repositioning the main antenna simultaneously repositions the auxiliary antenna in a corresponding manner. Optionally a plurality of co located auxiliary transmission antennas may be provided in step . Exemplary configurations for the auxiliary antenna s are provided further below.

Method further includes locating a sensing antenna on a line of sight path between the main transmission antenna and a victim receiving antenna . For example as illustrated in sensing antenna is positioned relative to victim antenna so as to sample substantially all of the interference signal S from main antenna and substantially all of the auxiliary signal S from auxiliary antenna that is received by the victim antenna . For example the sensing antenna may be positioned in direct contact with the victim antenna or may be positioned adjacent to the victim antenna or may be positioned some distance away from the victim antenna but along the line of sight between the main and auxiliary antennas and the victim antenna. Satisfactory positions for the sensing antenna may be selected depending upon the particular geography of the areas in which the main auxiliary and victim antennas are situated cooperation of the owner operator of the victim system and the characteristics of these antennas.

Method also includes transmitting a main signal e.g. signal S illustrated in from the main transmission antenna to a target receiving antenna . Even if the main lobe of such a transmission is directed at the target antenna sidelobes of the transmission may be directed in a variety of directions and may impinge upon the victim antenna causing interference e.g. signal S illustrated in .

Method additionally includes transmitting an auxiliary signal from the auxiliary transmission antenna to the victim receiving antenna . For example as illustrated in auxiliary antenna transmits signal S to victim antenna . A baseline amplitude phase polarization and frequency content may be initially selected for the auxiliary signal e.g. based on the expected level of interference at the victim antenna as a function of the main signal. This baseline estimate may be derived from analysis codes for the main antenna or from measurements on a scaled or actual antenna. As described in greater detail below in subsequent steps the characteristics of this auxiliary signal may be adjusted using adaptive circuitry so as to reduce the amount of interference that the interfering main signal causes to the victim antenna. Preferably transmitting the auxiliary signal from the auxiliary transmission antenna does not significantly impact the transmission of the main signal from the main transmission antenna to the target receiving antenna.

Method further includes receiving the sum of the interference from the main transmission antenna and the auxiliary signal at the sensing antenna . Because the sensing antenna e.g. antenna illustrated in is positioned so as to sample substantially all of the interference from the main antenna e.g. antenna and substantially all of the auxiliary signals that are experienced by the victim antenna e.g. antenna the received sum approximates the corresponding sum received by the victim antenna. The coherent sum of the signals from the main antenna sidelobes and adaptively weighted auxiliary antenna system results in a received power density by the sensing antenna that is on the line of sight path to the victim antenna. The reduction of the power density in the direction of the victim antenna reduces the interference power received by the victim system.

Method also includes adjusting at least one of the amplitude phase polarization and frequency characteristics of the auxiliary signal so as to reduce the sum of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the sensing antenna . Because the sensing antenna is located on the line of sight path between the transmission antenna and the victim receiving antenna such an adjustment also reduces the sum of the interference and the auxiliary signal received by the victim antenna i.e. reduces the detrimental impact of the interference on the operation of the victim antenna without requiring any action by the owner operator of the victim antenna.

Further detail of the different components of system illustrated in and their functionalities will now be provided.

Controller includes main antenna input at which it receives a signal sample E that is to be transmitted by the main antenna to the target antenna . Signal sample E is coherent with the signals S and S radiated by main antenna and the signal S that is adaptively weighted and radiated by the auxiliary antennas and . Signal E may be an electronic representation of the signals generated by main antenna or may be a sampling of the signals carried by fiber optics. For example the transmitter of main antenna may include an output coupler not illustrated that is positioned after the transmitter of main antenna and output filtering and that provides first signal E representative of that sample to main antenna input . Such an output coupler of main antenna may be coupled to main antenna input of controller via any suitable connection e.g. by a wired connection by fiber optics or by a wireless connection. Main antenna input E is operatively coupled to cross correlator described in greater detail below.

Controller also includes sensing antenna input at which it receives a second signal E received by sensing antenna that includes a representation of the composite signal from the sidelobes of the main antenna S the adaptively weighted signal S from the auxiliary antennas and the signal collection S intended to be received by the victim antenna and thermal noise components not shown . Signals S and S are coherently related to the signal sample E obtained from the transmitter of main antenna and coherently related to the signal S transmitted to target antenna . The signal collection S intended for the victim receiver and the thermal noise components are not coherently related to the signals S S and S as a consequence the outputs E and E of the cross correlator have no response to S or to the thermal noise components. The second signal E also includes a representation of the adaptively weighted auxiliary signal S received by sensing antenna . This component of the second signal E includes a representation of the frequency dependent sum of the different sidelobe signal contributions and is coherently related to the signal S and S. However this component S may have different amplitudes and time delays depending on their path to sensing antenna . Specifically the frequency dependent sum A of the different sidelobe signal contributions m received by sensing antenna may be expressed as exp exp 1 where Kis a normalizing coefficient based on the gain of sensing antenna for sidelobe signal contribution m and G t and S are as defined above. Note that A and A primarily differ in that the latter includes normalizing coefficients and an additional time delay component that accounts for the time that signal contribution m takes to travel from the auxiliary antenna system and to sensing antenna .

The second signal E includes signal component S radiated by antenna sidelobes in the direction of sensing antenna and victim antenna . Signal E includes a representation of a plurality of signal contributions m from interfering signal S generated by sidelobes . The frequency dependent sum of the different sidelobe signal contributions A may be expressed as exp exp 2 where Gis the relative gain level amplitude of one of the signal components m is the relative phase of that component is the frequency in radians tis the time delay of the sidelobe signal component relative to a common reference point and S is the signal spectrum. The signal components m generated by sidelobes each are coherent with the main signal S generated by main lobe and may come from a variety of sources including but not limited to aperture illumination edge diffraction feed spillover radiation and blockage scattering from the structural components of antenna frame and leakage through panels that form the surface of main antenna .

The response of the auxiliary antenna system A is adaptively weighted by values determined by the processor to produce a response having a representation of the frequency dependent sum of the different auxiliary signal contributions A generated by auxiliary antennas which may be expressed as exp exp 3 where Kis a normalizing coefficient based on the gain of sensing antenna for the signal generated by auxiliary antenna n Gis the relative gain level amplitude of the response of that auxiliary antenna is the relative phase of the response of the signal generated by that antenna and tis the time delay for that antenna s signal relative to the same time as the delay components of the main antenna. The H term is an adaptive weighting coefficient that controller imposes on antenna n so as to adaptively reduce the effect of interference signal S on victim antenna . The adaptive weighting values produced by the processor are selected to replicate or approximate the response of the main antenna s sidelobes A . When this replication is accomplished the subtraction of the main antenna s sidelobe response and the adaptively weighted auxiliary antenna system s response will cancel and the interference illumination of the victim antenna is minimized or reduced.

Specifically controller includes cross correlator configured to cross correlate signals E and E together to obtain signal E that is proportional to the composite signal from the transmission antenna and the auxiliary antenna signals that are weighted by the adaptive weighting value H . Note that the correlation output is a dc value and that the E and E outputs represent the correlation with orthogonally polarized components of the E signal. The signals in E include the composite signals from the main and auxiliary antennas that have a coherent relationship and the sampled signal from the main antenna E is also coherent to the composite signal. Other signals in the environment received by the sensing antenna and thermal noise components are not coherent with the composite signal and the cross correlation of these other components is zero. This cross correlation also measures the delay components needed to equalize the responses of main antenna and auxiliary antennas . Signals E and E may be electronic signals that may be carried by fiber optics. Controller also includes processor configured to receive signals E and E and to determine based on same an error value expressed by the following equation 4 Error value thus reflects the extent to which the sum of signal components A generated by auxiliary antennas and received by sensing antenna i.e. auxiliary signal S cancels the sum of signal components A generated by main antenna and received by sensing antenna i.e. interfering signal S. A threshold value for error value may be defined below which auxiliary signal S is considered to satisfactorily cancel interfering signal S. This threshold error value is determined based on the threshold SNIR required for the victim system to achieve satisfactory operation. Cross correlator and processor may have any suitable architecture known in the art. In one example processor is a conventional microprocessor as may be used in a personal computer PC . Cross correlators are known in the art.

Processor is further configured to obtain a set of adaptive weighting coefficients H based on signals E and E that reduce or minimize error value . Processor may obtain such coefficients using any suitable algorithms for example a least means squared LMS algorithm as is known in the art. Note that signal E may be considered a priori knowledge of interfering signal S generated by main antenna and may be used to reduce the amount of computational effort that would otherwise be required to obtain coefficients H . Examples of the use of such a priori knowledge are described in greater detail in Dybdal et al. DEADEN A New Adaptive Cancellation Technique 1995 San Diego Calif. Paper C1.1 Nov. 5 8 1995 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 440 308 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. It is envisioned that such a priori knowledge may be used to deterministically establish an initial set of weighting coefficients H and delays with subsequent adaptive refinement performed by processor to suppress interfering signal S in the direction of victim antenna .

As will be appreciated the frequency response of main antenna s sidelobes may differ from the frequency response of auxiliary antennas . To achieve satisfactory reduction of error value over the bandwidth of interfering signal S and auxiliary signal S in some embodiments processor may include or be in operable communication with an adaptive transversal filter. As is known in the art such a filter includes fixed tapped delay line circuitry with amplitude and phase control at each tap to produce a frequency dependent adaptive weight that extends the cancellation bandwidth of the adaptive cancellation system. For example is a plot illustrating the relationship between the time bandwidth product BT for an adaptive transversal filter and the degree of cancellation achievable with such a filter for a given number of taps. As may be seen in the equalization requirements depend on BT where the time parameter is the delay spread of the main antenna s sidelobes and the bandwidth is the required cancellation bandwidth. The number of taps increases with the amount of desired cancellation and with the required bandwidth. For reflector antennas it is known in the art that the time delay spread of the sidelobe structure is about 2.5 times the transit time across the antenna s aperture.

Referring again to controller includes auxiliary antenna outputs that are operatively coupled to processor and to auxiliary antennas respectively. Auxiliary antenna outputs may be coupled to auxiliary antennas via any suitable connection such as a wired connection or a wireless connection. Based on the input of signals E and E into any suitable algorithm and or adaptive transversal filter processor obtains a set of weighting coefficients H and provides such weighting coefficients to the appropriate auxiliary antenna outputs . For example in the illustrated embodiment processor provides weighting coefficient H to auxiliary antenna output in communication with auxiliary antenna and provides weighting coefficient H to auxiliary antenna output in communication with auxiliary antenna . Such weighting coefficients modify the frequency dependent amplitude of the signal components A generated by auxiliary antennas and thus modify the amplitude of auxiliary signal S received by sensing antenna and victim antenna reducing the effect of interfering signal on victim antenna . Note that in addition to weighting coefficients that modify the frequency dependent amplitude of signal components generated by auxiliary antennas processor may also or alternatively provide signals to auxiliary antenna outputs that modify one or more of the amplitude phase and polarization of the signal components A generated by auxiliary antennas . For example signal S has a mixture of polarization components so preferably auxiliary antennas each have two orthogonally polarized outputs the relative phase and amplitude of which may be adjusted by processor such that auxiliary signal S has approximately the same polarization characteristics as interference signal S.

Note that sensing antenna receives not only signals transmitted by main antenna and auxiliary antennas but also other signals in the environment e.g. desired signal S. The signal collection S received by sensing antenna may be expressed as 5 where 6 where A H and A are as defined above with respect to equations 2 and 3 and where S are the spectral characteristics of other external signal components received by sensing antenna and which include normalizing coefficients Kbased on the gain of sensing antenna for those signals analogous to the normalizing coefficients discussed above with respect to equations 2 and 3 . However the external signals characterized by S have no correlation to signal E. Similarly signals caused by thermal noise have no correlation to signal E. As such the correlation by cross correlator of first signal E from main antenna and second signal E from sensing antenna produces no correlation with the external signals. Therefore processor receives no information about such external signals and the weighting coefficients H that processor obtains and applies to auxiliary antennas will not significantly impede victim antenna from receiving such external signals e.g. desired signal S.

In some embodiments controller further includes computer readable storage medium . Storage medium may store instructions for use by processor for processing signals E E such as the algorithm used in such processing. The storage medium also may contain a priori data on the response of the main and auxiliary antennas over their angular extent that is used in predetermining the adaptive weighting values H . Storage medium also may store information about one or more of signals E E E and E and or error value as a function of time. Such information may be used for example to demonstrate how effectively auxiliary antennas cancel interfering signal S generated by main antenna as a function of time. Comparison between the time varying error values with the predetermined threshold error value indicates compliance with requirements and the time varying recording of the error values serves to document the compliance with requirements.

As will be appreciated to satisfactorily cancel interfering signal S with auxiliary signal S certain amplitude and phase tolerances must be maintained over the operating bandwidth. is a plot illustrating the amplitude and phase tolerance requirements for various levels of signal cancellation in dB calculated using techniques known in the art. Under various embodiments of the present invention cancellation levels of between 20 40 dB are believed to provide satisfactory levels of cancellation in particular between 25 30 dB.

Referring again to the ability of controller to accurately determine error value and thus determine the composite interference power depends in part on the insertion gain and stability of the electronics between main antenna input and sensing antenna gain level . The gain of sensing antenna in the direction of main antenna may be measured and the insertion gain and cross correlation coefficient of the sensing antenna electronics may also be measured. This calibration results in establishing the power density of the incident composite interference signal and the cross correlation values E and E. In this way the cross correlation values may be compared with the predetermined threshold interference power density for acceptable operation of the victim antenna . This calibration thus provides a measure of the effectiveness of the adaptive cancellation in complying with requirements. Further recording the time variation of the cross correlation levels documents compliance during periods that the main antenna is transmitting. The sensing antenna is passive and its gain level may be measured. However the insertion gain of the electronics may somewhat vary with time during operation and calibration techniques may be used to characterize their variability. One such technique includes injecting calibration signals at main antenna input and sensing antenna input to measure the time varying insertion gain values of the electronics. This technique usefully provides Built in Test Equipment BITE capabilities for the electronics associated with sensing antenna . If the stability of the insertion gain is characterized an alternative is to select a threshold output correlation value margined by the insertion gain instability variation.

Note that the functionalities of cross correlator and processor need not necessarily be provided in separate modules but both may be performed by a single component of controller . For example processor may also provide the functionality of cross correlator . Additionally not all components of controller necessarily need to be co located. For example cross correlator may be positioned in a separate location from processor . In one embodiment cross correlator is co located with sensing antenna while processor is positioned in a different location.

Preferably auxiliary antennas are configured to provide gain levels that meet or exceed the gain levels of sidelobes . Auxiliary antennas may be positioned so as to enhance the cancellation of interference signal S. For example one or more of auxiliary antennas may be mounted on the same side of frame as is main antenna and one or more of auxiliary antennas may be mounted on the opposite side of frame as is main antenna . In the illustrated embodiment auxiliary antenna is mounted on the same side of frame as is main antenna and auxiliary antenna is mounted on the opposite side of frame as is main antenna .

Additionally auxiliary antennas may be configured to cancel different signal contributions from sidelobes than one another and thus may have different designs than one another. For example in some embodiments sidelobes may include wide angle sidelobes bounded by an isotropic gain level and having amplitudes significantly lower than that of main signal S as well as sidelobes that are relatively close to main lobe and having a higher amplitude than the wide angle sidelobes. To cancel signal contributions from wide angle low amplitude sidelobes auxiliary antenna may be configured as for example a horn radiator. Such a horn radiator preferably is configured such that the component of auxiliary signal S that it generates does not contain significant multipath contributions resulting from reflections from frame . For example horn radiators may be configured to reduce the generation of backlobes using any suitable feature known in the art e.g. by including a choke or a rolled edge or by utilizing observer tunneling.

Additionally or alternatively to cancel signal contributions from sidelobes that are nearer to main signal lobe and have a higher amplitude auxiliary antenna may be configured as a reflector antenna having smaller diameter than main antenna in one example having a diameter approximately 1 10th that of main antenna . Such an auxiliary antenna may be positioned for example behind the reflector of main antenna so as to bring the phase centers of main antenna and auxiliary antenna relatively close to one another and thus reduce the effects of coherent interaction variations over the bandwidth. Specifically because the amplitudes of sidelobes nearer to main lobe are higher than those at wider angles auxiliary antenna must generate higher ERP levels to cancel signals from such sidelobes. Coherent interactions between main antenna and auxiliary antenna may affect the ERP of main signal S which may be addressed by adjusting the magnitude and time delay of signals generated by auxiliary antenna .

The coherent interaction between main signal S from main antenna and auxiliary signal S from auxiliary antennas may be characterized using any suitable technique known in the art. In some circumstances the phasing between main signal S and auxiliary S may vary over the bandwidth of main antenna and auxiliary antennas resulting in ripple that degrades the operation of target antenna . For example although target antenna primarily receives main signal S from main antenna it may also receive some component of auxiliary signal S from auxiliary antennas that interacts coherently with main signal S. The level of acceptable ripple for target antenna within a given spectral band may be defined as a system specification for that antenna. As illustrated in the peak to peak ripple value experienced by target antenna depends on the relative levels of the components received by that antenna e.g. signals S and S. The amount of ripple for a signal of given bandwidth depends on the time delay between those components. For example a full cycle of the ripple may be provided by a physical separation distance L between the phase components equal to 984.3 7 where f is the frequency bandwidth in MHz and physical separation distance L is in units of feet.

Some numerical examples may illustrate such transmission characteristics. For example if target antenna has system specifications requiring the peak to peak perturbation of main signal S generated by main antenna to be less than 0.1 dB then the amount of auxiliary signal S generated by auxiliary antennas that is received by target antenna must be about 44 dB lower than signal S. Or for example if target antenna has system specifications requiring the peak to peak perturbation of main signal S to be less than 0.5 dB then the amount of auxiliary signal S that is received by target antenna must be about 30.5 dB lower than signal S. Or for example if target antenna has system specifications requiring the peak to peak perturbation of main signal S to be less than 1 dB then the amount of auxiliary signal S that is received by target antenna must be about 24 dB lower than signal S.

The possibility of target antenna observing a full cycle of ripple depends on the bandwidths of main signal S and auxiliary signal S. For example if the bandwidth f of signals S and S is 4 MHz then equation 7 provides that the required separation between the radiating phase centers is 246 feet. If for example the phase variation caused by auxiliary signal is to be limited to 1 10 of the full cycle of ripple then the required separation is 1 10 of the above value i.e. 24.6 feet. Auxiliary antennas may be suitably arranged so as to reduce the distance between antennas and main antenna . For example as noted above in some embodiments auxiliary antenna may be positioned behind the reflector of main antenna .

For embodiments in which the signals have narrower bandwidth e.g. less than 4 MHz and in which the phase centers of auxiliary antennas and main antenna are positioned closer than distance L from one another then a relatively small fraction of the full ripple cycle will occur. In such embodiments the ERP levels of main signal S will be perturbed by contributions from auxiliary signal S. As is familiar to those of ordinary skill the phases of the sidelobes of main antenna illustrated in alternate thus if main lobe has a positive phase then the sidelobes nearest main lobe have a negative phase the next nearest sidelobes have a positive phase and so on. Components of auxiliary signal S that are intended to cancel negative phase sidelobes have a positive phase while components of signal S intended to cancel positive phase sidelobes have a negative phase. Thus different components of auxiliary signal S may coherently interact differently with main signal S e.g. may enhance or degrade the ERP of main signal S by an amount that depends on the relative level and phase of that component of auxiliary signal S.

However perturbations of the ERP of main signal S need not necessarily be problematic. For example many antennas are designed to provide performance above a specified minimum elevation angle e.g. 5 . In some embodiments for example where main antenna is angled so as to communicate with target antenna that is a satellite antenna then relatively high amplitude sidelobes of main antenna may be angled such that they do not generate significant components of interfering signal S in the direction of victim antenna . As such auxiliary antennas may satisfactorily cancel components of interfering signal S that are caused by lower amplitude sidelobes without necessarily causing significant perturbations to main signal S. Another consideration is the potential perturbation of main signal S versus the system specifications of target antenna . For example as noted above cancellation of relatively high amplitude sidelobes may be anticipated to perturb the ERP of main signal S. However such a perturbation may be within the system specifications of target antenna .

As mentioned above with respect to interfering signal S generated by sidelobes may include a mixture of orthogonally polarized components and sensing antenna may be configured to receive a mixture of orthogonal signal components. In such an embodiment sensing antenna may output a corresponding pair of signals representative of the two orthogonal signal components and controller may include a corresponding pair of sensing antenna inputs . The signals at such inputs may be cross correlated to obtain the total power density of the incident interfering signal S. Although the polarization properties of victim antenna may be established the coupling of cross polarized components of interfering signal S through the axial ratio of the victim antenna may also result in excessive interference power. Thus the cross polarized levels may be adaptively controlled as noted above with respect to .

While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. For example although in many embodiments the inventive systems will include a plurality of auxiliary antennas e.g. antennas illustrated in in other embodiments the systems may include only a single auxiliary antenna configured to cancel signal contributions generated by the main antenna. Any suitable number of auxiliary antennas may be provided. Also for example the auxiliary antenna s need not necessarily be co located with the main antenna but may be positioned at any suitable location from which they may transmit an interference canceling signal to the sensing and victim antennas. The embodiments described apply to communication system applications. However the methods and apparatus may also be applied to radar system applications. High level radar signals albeit operating in a different frequency range than nearby systems may have sufficient levels that nearby receivers may have nonlinear operation that degrades their performance. The adaptive suppression techniques described herein may similarly be applied to radar systems to avoid degradation to other nearby receiving systems as may be appreciated by those practiced in the art.

The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

