---

title: Systems, apparatus, methods and computer-readable storage media for facilitating management of social media information for communication devices
abstract: Systems, apparatus, methods and computer-readable storage media facilitating management of social media (SM) information are provided. In some embodiments, a method can include: executing a batch linking application; and batch linking one or more social network (SN) contacts to one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device, wherein the batch linking comprises obtaining the one or more SN contacts at the communication device, wherein the one or more SN contacts are selected for the batch linking based, at least, on a correspondence to the one or more contacts, and wherein the batch linking is performed by the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477849&OS=09477849&RS=09477849
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09477849
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101013
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 251 717 filed Oct. 14 2009 and titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR NEXT GENERATION MOBILE MESSAGING U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 643 726 filed Dec. 21 2009 titled SYSTEMS APPARATUS METHODS AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIA FOR FACILITATING INTEGRATED MESSAGING CONTACTS AND SOCIAL MEDIA FOR A SELECTED ENTITY the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

With advancements in technology the amount and type of information that users can access over wireless networks is growing rapidly. Similarly mobile devices are becoming ubiquitous due to convenience of use resultant from their lightweight nature and users are demanding that a plethora of different types of information be provided to the devices. Additionally the ability to form online social networks SNs with others has increased the possibilities for casual business and family networking. The popularity of such SNs and the social networking sites SNSs that facilitate such SNs has caused users of such sites and the social media SM information provided to and retrievable from such sites to be immense. To fully reap the benefits of the SNs many users access contacts status updates wall postings and or photo albums of friends via their communication devices. Ever present challenges for users of communication devices are efficiently retrieving select SM information from SNSs and or managing the relationships with other users of SNSs with which the owner of the communication device is affiliated. Accordingly systems apparatus methods and computer readable storage media for facilitating management of SM information for communication devices is desirable.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of various aspects described herein. The summary is not an extensive overview and is not intended to identify key or critical elements or to delineate the scopes thereof. The sole purpose of the summary is to present selected concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented below.

The aspects described herein are systems apparatus methods and computer readable storage media for facilitating management of SM information for communication devices.

In one aspect a computer implemented method is provided. The computer implemented method can include executing a batch linking application and batch linking one or more SN contacts to one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device wherein batch linking comprises obtaining the one or more SN contacts at the communication device wherein the one or more SN contacts are selected for the batch linking based at least on a correspondence to the one or more contacts and wherein the batch linking is performed by the communication device.

In another aspect a computer implemented method is provided. The computer implemented method can include identifying a plurality of SN contacts having a friend status identifying a plurality of linked contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device and unlinking ones of the plurality of linked contacts that are not included in the plurality of SN contacts having a friend status wherein the unlinking is performed by the communication device.

In another aspect an apparatus is provided. The apparatus can include a processor a SM management component configured to select one or more SN contacts for batch linking and batch link one or more SN contacts to one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device wherein batch linking comprises obtaining the one or more SN contacts at the communication device wherein the one or more SN contacts are selected for the batch linking based at least on a correspondence to the one or more contacts and wherein the batch linking is performed by the communication device. The apparatus can also include a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that if executed cause the apparatus to perform one or more functions of the SM management component.

Certain illustrative embodiments are described herein in the following description and the annexed drawings. These embodiments are merely exemplary non limiting and non exhaustive. As such all modifications alterations and variations within the spirit of the embodiments is envisaged and intended to be covered herein.

Further in the following description for purposes of mere explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to facilitate a more thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein including the claimed subject matter. However as is known to those of ordinary skill in the art the embodiments can be practiced in many instances without inclusion of the specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to hardware and or software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components and can be as simple as a command line or as complex as an Integrated Development Environment IDE .

Furthermore the embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer apparatus or article of manufacture to implement the functionality disclosed herein. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program or computer program product accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier computer readable media or computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and or flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can carry computer readable electronic data e.g. the data transmitted and received via email and or to access the Internet or a network such as a local area network LAN . As known to those of ordinary skill in the art modifications can be made to the above embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a communication network for systems described herein can include any suitable mobile and or wireline based circuit switched communication network including a global systems for mobile communication GSM network a time division multiple access TDMA network a code division multiple access CDMA network such as IS 95 and subsequent iterations of CDMA technology an integrated digital enhanced network iDEN network and a public switched telephone network PSTN . Further examples of a communication network can include any suitable data packet switched or combination data packet circuit switched communication network wired or wireless internet protocol IP network such as a voice over internet protocol VoIP network an IP data network a universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS network a general packet radio service GPRS network or other communication networks that provide streaming data communication over IP and or integrated voice and data communication over combination data packet circuit switched technologies.

Similarly one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a communication device for systems disclosed herein can include a mobile device mobile phone a PSTN phone a cellular communication device a cellular phone a satellite communication device a satellite phone a VoIP phone a wireless fidelity WiFi phone a dual mode cellular WiFi phone a combination cellular VoIP WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX phone or any suitable combination thereof. Specific examples of a mobile device can include but is not limited to a cellular device such as a GSM TDMA CDMA IS 95 and or iDEN phone a cellular WiFi device such as a dual mode GSM TDMA IS 95 and or iDEN VoIP phones UMTS phones UMTS VoIP phones or like devices or combinations thereof. To provide support for a mobile device a gateway routing component can include any suitable component that can perform centralized routing within a mobile satellite or similar network but optionally need not include components that route strictly within a PSTN network routing between communication networks between networks of varying architecture e.g. between PSTN GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Enterprise VoIP the Internet or combinations thereof and the like. Specific examples of a gateway routing component can include but are not limited to a gateway mobile switching center GMSC a gateway general packet radio service GPRS support node GGSN a session border control SBC device or like devices. Additionally a data storage component of such a system can include any suitable device process and or combination device and process that can store digital and or switched information e.g. server database data store or the like .

As used herein the term link can be in some embodiments an association between a profile or information for the contact and a profile or information for a SN contact in a SN and or an association between the contact and the SN contact. As used herein the term feed item can be in some embodiments an item in or associated with a SNS feed. In some embodiments a user can be signed in to a SNS when a token for the SNS session is active and signed out when the token for the SNS has expired or the session has been ended by the user. The cache can be cleared for signed out SNSs in some embodiments.

In various embodiments the core network can include one or more of software hardware and or combination software and hardware configured to provide connectivity to and between the communication devices . The system can include one or more macro Femto and or pico access points APs not shown base stations BS not shown or landline networks e.g. optical landline networks electrical landline networks not shown communicatively coupled between one or more of the communication devices and the core network to provide connectivity between the communication devices and the core network . In various embodiments the communication devices can communicate via any number of various types of wireless technologies including but not limited to cellular WiFi WiMax wireless local area networks WLAN etc. In corresponding embodiments the core network can provide cellular WiFi WiMAX WLAN and other technologies for facilitating such communication. The core network can also include the Internet or another communication network e.g. IP based network a digital subscriber line DSL type or broadband network facilitated by Ethernet or other technology. The core network can also include in various embodiments servers including email multimedia audio video news financial or stock information servers.

The core network can also include short message service SMS networks and multimedia message service MMS networks. The core network can also include but is not limited to routers nodes switches interfaces and or controllers that can facilitate communication of data to or from the communication devices . The core network can transmit and receive voice text pictorial video audio and or data traffic to and from the communication devices . While only communication devices and are shown in various embodiments the core network can include or can be communicatively coupled to other communication devices inside or outside of the network. In various embodiments the network can also include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software for allocating resources to the communication devices converting or enforcing protocols establishing and or providing levels of Quality of Service QoS applications or services in the network translating signals and or performing other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication to or from the communication devices .

In various embodiments the core network can include or can be communicatively coupled to one or more of multimedia servers not shown email servers not shown data store components not shown Internet not shown for communicating one or more of text or email messages data pictures multimedia voice or video.

The core network can also include data store components and or memory storing information and or computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions enabling various operations by the communication devices . In some embodiments the core network can include data store components and or memory storing computer executable instructions and or settings for providing facilitating management of SM information to from or within the communication devices . In some embodiments a data store component can store settings and or memory can store computer executable instructions enabling the communication device to intelligently and selectively manage SM information retrieved from SNSs.

In various embodiments management can include retrieval of selective SM information which can be intelligently identified based on the information stored in the communication devices . For example the contacts stored in or accessible by the communication devices can provide a wealth of information for intelligently managing SM information. As an example in some embodiments the network can retrieve SM information for SNS friends of the owner of the communication devices that are identified as contacts in the communication devices . Similarly the communication devices can manage friend relationships and de friend friends based on updated status information.

In some embodiments the network can include rules and or policies for management of SM information in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. For example rules and policies can be such as those discussed below with reference to batch linking SM information to contacts. As described herein batch linking SM information to contacts can be for obtaining intelligently retrieving and or selectively downloading SM information at the communication device . Other rules and policies for linking unlinking and or de friending are also described herein and can be facilitated by the network and or the communication devices . While batch linking is described embodiments herein also include those directed to manual linking of SM information and contacts as described below with reference to . Manual linking can also be for obtaining retrieving and or selectively downloading SM information at the communication device however with manual linking the decision as to whether to link is performed by the user of the communication device whereas the decision can be performed automatically by the communication device with batch linking .

Referring to after the SM information is linked to a contact the communication devices can populate a social card stored on or accessible by the communication device . The social card can be illustrated as a UI display that includes SM information from one or more SNSs for a SN contact linked to a contact. In some embodiments the SM information from one or more SNSs for a SN contact can be aggregated for all SNSs with which the SN contact is associated. The social card can be one of the cards included as the 3 screen triptych UI described in U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 643 726 filed Dec. 21 2009 titled SYSTEMS APPARATUS METHODS AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIA FOR FACILITATING INTEGRATED MESSAGING CONTACTS AND SOCIAL MEDIA FOR A SELECTED ENTITY and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The communication device can populate the social card with SM information associated with the SN contact.

Referring back to in various embodiments the communication devices can be mobile wireless wireline and or optical devices. The communication devices can include but are not limited to a mobile or cellular telephone including but not limited to a smartphone BLUETOOTH device a 3GPP UMTS phone a personal digital assistant PDA computer IP television IPTV wireline phone with mobile messaging functionality gaming console a set top box STB a multi media recorder a multi media player a video recorder a video player an audio recorder an audio player laptop a printer a copier and or a scanner.

In various embodiments the communication devices can include hardware software or a combination of hardware and software facilitating operation according to one or more communication protocols described above with reference to the core network or the functionality facilitated by the hardware software or combination hardware and software described above with reference to the core network . The communication protocols and or functionality can include but is not limited to MMS SMS WLAN WiFi WiMAX BLUETOOTH protocol text messaging electronic mail messaging facsimile multimedia and or any number of other protocols or functionalities as described above with reference to the communications protocols or functionalities facilitated by core network . In various embodiments the communication devices can transmit and or receive voice text pictorial video audio and or data traffic to and from the communication devices . By way of example but not limitation the communication devices can receive profile photos and other images or photos associated with a linked SN contact. As other examples text can include contact information for the SN contact feeds from a single SNS or aggregated feeds from multiple SNSs with which the linked SN contact is affiliated video associated with the SN contact and the like.

In some embodiments the communication devices can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software to facilitate providing management of SM information from to or within the communication devices as described herein. For example in various embodiments as shown at communication device the communication devices can include a SM management component and a UI component for SM management at the communication device . In various embodiments the UI component can facilitate receiving or outputting information for providing or enabling the one or more SM management functions or protocols including but not limited to processing and selectively retrieving SM information and or display of the same via social and or contacts cards providing or enabling communication to or from the communication device accessing information stored within or storing information within the communication device or any controlling the communication device or receiving information output from the communication device via the UI component .

While SM management methods and communication devices facilitating such are described below with reference communication device in various embodiments the communication device can be or include one or more of the functions or structure or portions thereof of communication device and vice versa .

Turning back to illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary system that facilitates management of SM information for communication devices in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein.

The system can include a communication device . In some embodiments the system can also include one or more additional components. For example the additional components can include a SN gateway SNG component the internet and or one or more SNSs . The SNSs can be the FACEBOOK SNS TWITTER SNS and or MYSPACE SNS in various embodiments. In other embodiments the SNSs can be any sites from which SM information can be retrieved by the communication device including but not limited to the LINKEDIN and design SNS the MYLIFE SNS and the like. In some embodiments the communication device the internet and the SNG component and in various embodiments one or more of the SNSs can be communicatively coupled to one another to perform the functions of system described herein.

While the SNG component is shown in the SNG component is not a necessary component of system . By way of example but not limitation the communication device can be communicatively coupled to the SNSs via the internet without the SNG component . For example the communication device can be configured to retrieve information from the SNSs and or to provide information to the SNSs using native APIs.

As such while the SNG component can be employed e.g. as a network layer between the communication device and the SNSs and can be useful for facilitating communication between the communication device and the SNSs if the SNSs modify their APIs by making corresponding modifications at the SNG component in lieu of modifications at the communication device the SNG component is not a necessary element and the modifications can be made at the communication device to facilitate communication in the event of such changed APIs.

In embodiments of the system that include the SNG component the SNG component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software for providing communication between the SNSs and the communication device . In various embodiments the SNG component can be a network server with which the communication device is communicatively coupled. In some embodiments the SNG component can be located on a first network with the communication device and the SNSs can be located on a second network. The second network can be included in the internet in some embodiments.

The SNG component can be configured to enable the communication device to fetch information from the SNG component . For example the SNG component can be configured to receive SNG application programming interface SNG API calls from the communication device . The SNG API calls can request information from the SNG component . For example the SNG API calls can request SN feed information SN status updates SN profile photos and any other SM information associated with a SNS. The SNG component can be configured to output the requested information to the communication device upon receipt of the SNG API calls.

In some embodiments as described above when a SNG component is not employed in system the SNG APIs can be replaced with APIs configured to allow communication between the communication device and the SNSs .

In either case in various embodiments the calls can be HTTP RESTful API calls. By way of example but not limitation the SNG component can identify a subscriber of a wireless network service associated with the communication device and provide the identity of the subscriber in the form of an HTTP request header. Information can then be routed depending on the API call and controlled by configuration parameters. The parameters can be updateable over the air OTA in some embodiments. In these embodiments the communication device communicates with the SNG component via the wireless application protocol WAP .

In general the SNG component can be configured to communicate with the SNSs . The SNG component can transmit information to the SNSs and or receive information from the SNSs .

By way of example but not limitation in some embodiments credentials for the communication device to sign in to or connect to or retrieve information from a SNS can be received at the communication device and output to the SNG component . The SNG component can be configured to receive the credential information and output the credentials to the SNS of interest. While logged into the SNS the SNG component is provided access to receive and transmit information to and from the SNSs . As such the SNG component can be configured to provide SM information from the SNSs to the communication device .

By way of other examples but not limitation the SNG component can be configured to perform registration of the communication device or wireless network subscriber associated with the communication device transmit login and logoff information for the user of the communication device from the SNSs retrieve mini feed data from the SNSs retrieve SN contact activity SN contact status status comment details photos photo comments details SN contacts list publish media to the SNS and or provide a status of media being published to the SNSs .

Embodiments of the system can provide efficient management of SM information at the communication device . For example in some embodiments the SNG component and or communication device are configured to retrieve and process SM information for SN contacts intelligently selected by the system . Accordingly the number of SN contacts for which information must be processed is intelligently minimized. Additionally selection can be performed automatically by the communication device so as to minimize user input significantly improve the user experience and or reduce storage of the communication device dedicated to information about SN contacts that are rarely contacted by the communication device .

Further to that already provided above the communication device will now be described in greater detail. In some embodiments and as shown in the communication device can include a contacts component a SM management component a user interface UI component a SM component a messaging component a notification component a processor an input output I O component an information security component ISC a data store component a memory and or a media component . One or more of the components can be communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the communication device described herein.

Referring first to the I O component the I O component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software facilitating receipt and output of SM information contacts information messaging information and or control information e.g. API call information to and from the communication device . The receipt and transmission of such information can be utilized to provide management of SM information at the communication device .

The communication device can also include the ISC . Authentication information and personal data transmitted between the communication device and the SNG component can be protected through the use of security facilitated by the ISC . The ISC can be configured to provide security as follows.

A public private API key mechanism can be used for authorizing the communication device to access the SNG component . This key can be used to sign one or more HTTP requests that are sent to the SNG component or to a server associated with the SNG component as a way to identify the communication device to the SNG component . Requests from unauthorized communication devices can be rejected by the SNG component .

The API key and or user authentication data can be encrypted using Advanced Encryption Standard AES using Cipher Block Chaining CBC and PKCS7 Padding. Username and login information can be stored in data store component or any other database accessible by the SM management component and or the SNG component . In some embodiments no passwords are saved on the communication device or on the server associated with the SNG component .

In some embodiments whether a subscriber identity module SIM card has been changed on the communication device can be determined. Cached data can be immediately deleted prior to launching the application of the SM management component if a determination is made that the SIM has been changed.

If the application for the SM management component is launched after a SIM card change an authorization call can be made to the SNG component to detect whether the subscriber associated with the new SIM card is the different from the subscriber previously using the application. If it is a different subscriber the user of the communication device can be prompted to reset the application and cannot proceed until doing so. Resetting the application can delete all existing SN credentials and links so that the new SIM owner cannot see the data for the prior user of the communication device .

In some embodiments the SN sessions can periodically expire as dictated by the SNSs . The user of the communication device can be required to re authenticate credentials before the user can see any new data from the SNS for which the SN has expired. These security measures can be implemented with the help of the data used to identify subscribers for a wireless network and stored in the data store component or any database accessible by the communication device and or the SNG component .

Turning now to the UI component the UI component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software facilitating display of information from the communication device and or receipt of inputs to the communication device . The information can include graphical information e.g. profile photos textual information e.g. contacts information SN feed information SN updates video information e.g. videos associated with SNSs and the like.

In various embodiments the UI component can facilitate display of a social card for a linked SN contact the triptych UI referenced above and UIs illustrating information for informing the user of the communication device about the process of batch linking downloading of SM information and or generally performing SM information management.

The UI can be any number of different types of UIs including but not limited to a graphical user interface GUI a touch sensitive interface e.g. a touch screen an interface having capability for receiving audio input and outputting audio information and the like. In some embodiments described herein the UI can include a touch screen configured to receive inputs at the touch screen and graphically output SM information from the touch screen. The UI can be enabled to display alpha and or numeric characters message balloons images video icons and the like for SM information management. For example the UI can display the display regions described in more detail below and shown at .

Turning back to and to the contacts component the contacts component can be configured to control the operation of one or more contact applications. The contact applications can provide and or enable display deletion or editing contacts information. By way of example but not limitation contacts information can include the first and or last name of a contact stored on or accessible by the communication device a profile for a contact the email address for a contact and or avatar or images associated with the contact. In various embodiments the contacts information can also include other information that can be compared to SM information to determine whether the SN contact associated with the SM information corresponds to or is the same entity as the contact. In some embodiments the contacts information can include mobile home work and or fax numbers physical street addresses social network identification information a social network identification voice information geographical contact information biographical information such as the birthday or date of incorporation of the contact preferences such as favorite foods and the like.

The contacts component can be employed in conjunction with the SM management component to facilitate SM management. Turning now to the SM management component the SM management component can include software hardware and or a combination of hardware and software for providing SM information management to from or within the communication device .

In some embodiments the SM management component can include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software for performing automatic batch linking of SN contacts and contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device . The batch linking can be performed for a number of SN contacts and or for a number of contacts in a batch. As such massive amounts of information can be automatically and intelligently retrieved from the SNS to the communication device with little to no user intervention in various embodiments. The decisions as to which SN contacts to link can be performed automatically by the communication device in some embodiments.

The relationships between the contacts and the SM information or profiles for the contacts and SM information can be automatically analyzed and batched linking can be performed for a number of SN contacts. Linking the contacts with the SM information can enable the communication device to perform one time and or periodic retrieval and or display of updated or existing information about the linked SN contact. For example the communication device can retrieve and or display updated or existing wall posts status updates and or feeds. As such the communication device in some embodiments can reduce the need for a user to manually review each SN contact on a SNS to determine if the user should link the SN contact to a corresponding contact of the communication device because in some embodiments the embodiments herein can intelligently select SN contacts of interest to batch link. Accordingly the time to link relevant SN contacts can be significantly reduced over those embodiments requiring manual linking and the user experience can be improved.

The SM management component can perform a number of tasks for linking contacts and SM information processing or filtering SM information from the SNSs and or providing status updates and other SM information to the SNSs . For example in embodiments described below with reference to methods herein the SM management component can selectively and intelligently de friend or de link contacts for which status updates indicate de friending or de linking to be an appropriate course of action. In such cases the UI can display the display region shown with reference to for manual de friending or de linking and in some embodiments can perform de friending or de linking automatically without intervention by the user of the communication device .

In some embodiments the application for the SM management component can be a data intensive application with all data retrieved from the network. The amount of data retrieved from the network can be limited by the use of maximum limits on each kind of data and redundant network traffic can be avoided by the use of a caching mechanism that has one or more pre defined parameters to balance network traffic versus disk storage on the communication device. These maximum limits for managing network traffic and caching parameters can be predefined and updated over the air OTA .

In various embodiments the SM management component can be communicatively coupled to the contacts component . The SM management component can be configured to retrieve contacts information stored on or accessible by the contacts component . API calls can be defined by a contacts application of the contacts component to enable the retrieval of contacts information in some embodiments.

The terms and conditions for the use of the SNS can be accepted using the SM management component adding signing in and removing SNSs batch and manual linking of the contacts in the communication device with the SN contacts viewing the latest status updates wall posts and photo album updates from a SN and or viewing the latest status updates wall posts and photo album updates for an individual from a SNS can be facilitated using the SM management component .

The updates and posts can be shown on a linked card or an unlinked card. In some embodiments the unlinked social card can show updates for a SN contact on a single SNS that is not linked to a contact while a linked social card shows updates for a contact that is linked to a single SN contact on multiple SNs. The SM management component can also be configured to provide viewing of photos from a photo album updated on a SNS and saving individual photos and the ability to update the user s status on a SNS.

In some embodiments the SM management component can include the structure and or functionality of SM management component of . illustrates one embodiment of the SM management component .

In some embodiments the SM management component can include a batch linking component configured to enable automatic communication device driven batch linking of contacts with SM information. In some embodiments the batch linking is performed with no intervention by the user of the communication device . In some embodiments the SM management component can also include a manual linking component configured to enable user driven manual linking of contacts with SM information.

Linking can be initiated in some embodiments when a user of the communication device logs into a SNS. The batch linking component can automatically review SN contacts of the user of the communication device . In some embodiments the batch linking component can attempt to match the names of the SN contacts with names from the contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device. The batch linking component can perform a batch sync of contacts and batch link SN contacts with contacts. In some embodiments the batch linking component can perform batch linking by invoking an application of the contacts component accessing the address book of the communication device and retrieving a SN list of the SN contacts. Members of the SN list can be linked to the contacts in the address book.

In some embodiments the batch linking component can be configured to access information associated with one or more SN contacts. The batch linking component can also access information associated with one or more contacts of a contacts list. The batch linking component can batch link the one or more SN contacts to the one or more contacts of a contacts list.

In some embodiments batch linking can include batch processing a plurality of SN contacts wherein the plurality of SN contacts comprise the one or more SN contacts. The batch processing can include selecting one or more SN contacts for batch linking and batch linking the one or more SN contacts to one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device . Batch linking can provide retrieval of SM information to the communication device .

In some embodiments batch processing a plurality of SN contacts can include comparing the plurality of SN contacts to the one or more contacts selecting as the one or more SN contacts ones of the plurality of SN contacts that correspond to the one or more contacts and determining whether the one or more SN contacts are linked or unlinked to corresponding ones of the one or more contacts. Batch processing can also include linking the one or more SN contacts with the corresponding ones of the one or more contacts. Linking can be performed for the one or more SN contacts corresponding to the one or more contacts and that are unlinked to any contact.

Selecting the SN contacts for batch linking can be automatically and intelligently performed by the batch linking component based at least on whether the one or more SN contacts correspond to or is associated with information that matches with information of the one or more contacts.

In some embodiments the information need not match but merely provide a relationship between the information of the SN contact and the contact that informs the communication device that there is a correspondence between the SN contact and the contact. By way of example but not limitation if a subset of characters of a first or last name of a SN contact match a full first or last name of a contact the batch linking component can determine that the SN contact corresponds to the contact. Other examples of information that can be evaluated to determine if a SN contact corresponds to a contact includes but is not limited to an address an email address or a telephone number.

By way of another example images associated with the SN contact can be compared with images associated with the contact to determine a likelihood that the SN contact is the same person or entity as the contact. For example image processing can be employed to identify similarities in images.

In some embodiments after linking a social card stored on or accessible by the communication device can output SM information. In some embodiments the social card can be displayed by the UI of the communication device. can be an illustration of a social card for SN contacts linked to contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device .

The social card can be associated with the linked contact. SM information can include information from a SN with which the one of the one or more SN contacts linked to the one of the one or more contacts is affiliated the information comprises at least one of a profile photo a username first or last names associated with a SN a SN website posting a SN status update one or more SN feeds.

The batch linking component can determine whether to overwrite preexisting links and or replace preexisting links with new links to different contacts. In various embodiments the batch linking component can link more than one SN contact to a contact. In various embodiments the batch linking component can determine whether a link is already created between the SN contact and the contact.

In some embodiments there is a maximum number of SN contacts that can be batch linked during a single batch linking process. In these embodiments the batch linking component is also configured to determine if a maximum number of SN contacts has been met and forgo batch linking a number of SN contacts greater than the maximum number. The batch linking component can output a message via the UI such as that shown at in some embodiments.

In various embodiments the SM management component or the batch linking component and or the communication device can be configured to perform the methods of .

As described above embodiments described herein enable a communication device to automatically retrieve SM information for SN contacts that correspond to the contacts of the communication device. The relationships between the contacts and the SM information or profiles for the contacts and SM information can be automatically analyzed and batched linking can be performed for a number of SN contacts. Linking the contacts with the SN contacts can enable the communication device to periodically retrieve and display updated or existing information about the selected linked SN contacts. As such some embodiments can avoid or reduce the likelihood of the communication device unintelligently retrieving a massive dump of SN information from SN contacts with which the communication device or user of the communication is not in regular contact and hence information for which is not included in the contacts for the communication device .

For example referring to a method for facilitating batch linking between contacts and SM is provided. Method can include executing an application. In some embodiments at the method can include executing an application. In some embodiments the application can be a batch linking application. In various embodiments a batch linking application can be an application adapted to link one or more SN contacts with one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device.

At the method can include batch linking one or more social network SN contacts to one or more contacts stored on or accessible by the communication device wherein the batch linking comprises obtaining the one or more SN contacts at the communication device wherein the one or more SN contacts are selected for the batch linking based at least on a correspondence to the one or more contacts and wherein the batch linking is performed by the communication device.

In some embodiments batch linking can include batch processing a plurality of SN contacts wherein the plurality of SN contacts comprise the one or more SN contacts. In various embodiments the SN contacts are associated with at least one of a FACEBOOK SNS a TWITTER SNS or a MYSPACE SNS.

In some embodiments method can include displaying not shown via a UI a contacts card associated with a one of the one or more contacts on the contacts list wherein the contacts card includes SM information for the linked SN contacts. In some embodiments method can include displaying not shown a social card including SM information for one or more linked SN contacts.

In some embodiments a contacts list can be associated with a communication device. In this embodiment the method can further include providing not shown on social cards respectively associated with the one or more contacts on the contacts list linked to the one or more SN contacts SM information for the linked one or more SN contacts. The SM information can include a profile photo a username first or last names associated with a SNS a SNS posting a SNS status update one or more SNS feeds.

Referring to a method for batch processing can be as follows. At method can include comparing the plurality of SN contacts to the one or more contacts.

At method can include selecting as the one or more SN contacts ones of the plurality of SN contacts that correspond to the one or more contacts. In some embodiments selecting the one or more SN contacts can include comparing information of the one or more SN contacts with information of the one or more contacts and determining the one or more SN contacts for which the information of the one or more SN contacts matches the information of the one or more contacts.

In some embodiments the information of the one or more SN contacts and the information of the one or more contacts can include at least one of first and last names an image an address an email address or a telephone number

At method can include determining whether the one or more SN contacts are linked or unlinked to corresponding ones of the one or more contacts.

At method can include linking the one or more SN contacts with the corresponding ones of the one or more contacts based at least on the one or more SN contacts corresponding to the one or more contacts and the one or more SN contacts being unlinked to the corresponding ones of the one or more contacts.

At method can include determining whether one or more SN contacts are in the contacts list. At method can include determining whether the SN contact is already linked to a contact in the contacts list.

At method can include linking with the contact the SM information for the SN contact that is in the contact list and not already linked.

In some embodiments for each SN contact entry in the SN contacts list if the SN contact is already linked the link is maintained. If the SN contact s first name and last name are the same as for another SN contact in the SN contact s list the SN contact entry in the SN contacts list is skipped and the SN contact is not linked. If the SN contact s first name and last name has an exact unique match with an unlinked contact on the communication device the contact on the communication device is linked with the SN contact and the corresponding SM information for the SN contact is obtained by the communication device.

At method can include determining whether the maximum number of SN contacts have been linked. In some embodiments 200 SN contacts and or 600 contacts can be reviewed for batch linking during a single batch linking process.

At method can cease linking if the maximum number of SN contacts have been linked. If the maximum number have not been linked the method can return to and determine whether one or more SN contacts are in the contact list associated with the communication device.

The information downloaded from the SNS can be for access by the contacts application. Step can be performed for each linked SN contact.

In some embodiments downloading profile photos can include providing photos missing from the contacts profile information. Subsequently linked SNs then fill in remaining empty contact photos and or overwrite exiting contact photos from SNs. New feed items from a user and new profile photos can be detected and downloaded and stored upon subsequent logins to the SNS by the user of the communication device. In various embodiments feed items can include but are not limited to status information alerts SNS friend activity information comments and invitations from SNS friends.

At method can include retrieving SM information for linked SN contacts. In some embodiments the SM information can be retrieved for access by a SM application of the SM management component with reference to .

At method can include retrieving SM messaging information for a linked SN contact. In some embodiment the SM messaging information can be for access by conversations application of the messaging component .

At method can include retrieving a linked contacts list. The linked contacts list can be retrieved from a database with which the communication device is in communication in some embodiments.

At method can include identifying SN contacts in the linked contact list that are not SN contacts. At method can include determining whether any SN contacts are in the linked contacts list.

If no SN contacts are in the linked contacts list at method can include not de friending any linked contacts.

If any SN contacts are in the linked contacts list at method can include de friending the linked contacts that are not SN contacts. De friending the contact can include removing the link between the SN contact and the contact. In various embodiments when a SN contact leaves the SN de friends the user and or is de linked from a contact the contact photo downloaded from the SN for the SN contact can be removed upon detection of the de friending or upon the de linking. Additionally if a user deletes a SN the photos for the SN are deleted from contacts.

These embodiments enable batch or automatic de friending. However as shown in the UI can display a screen enabling the user to manually de friend or de link a SN contact from the contact. The information for the SN contact is then associated with the unlinked card and or the unlinked SN contacts.

At method can include identifying a contact linked to a one of the one or more SN contacts wherein the contacts list comprises the contact.

At method can include determining whether a status of the one of the one or more SN contacts to which the contact is linked is indicative of a relationship set by the one of the one or more SN contacts wherein the relationship is between the one of the one or more SN contacts and the contact.

At method can include updating a SN status of the contact based at least on the relationship set by the one of the one or more SN contacts. In some embodiments updating comprises de friending the one of the one or more SN contacts based at least on determining that the relationship set by the one of the one or more SN contacts is indicative of a lack of a SN contact relationship between the contact and the one of the one or more SN contacts.

At method can include unlinking ones of the plurality of linked contacts that are not included in the plurality of SN contacts having a friend status.

At method can also include removing SM information from social cards associated with unlinked contacts. The SM information can include at least one of a SNS profile photo a SNS username a first or last name associated with a SN a SNS website posting a SNS status update one or more SNS feeds.

In some embodiments method can also include additional steps not shown. These steps can include identifying a plurality of unlinked contacts linking unlinked ones of the plurality of SN contacts having a friend status with ones of the plurality of unlinked contacts based at least on determining that the unlinked ones of the plurality of SN contacts are not duplicates of other ones of the plurality of SN contacts and matching information of the unlinked ones of the plurality of SN contacts with information of ones of the plurality of unlinked contacts and maintaining links existing between linked ones of the plurality of SN contacts having the friend status and ones of the plurality of linked contacts.

Referring back to manual linking can also be provided via the manual linking component of the SM management component . In various embodiments manual linking of contacts and SN contacts can be as follows.

The communication device can output a display region illustrating SN contacts for one or more SNSs with which the user of the communication device is affiliated. In some embodiments SN contacts can be displayed based on text entered into the UI of the communication device indicating a name of a SN contact or a portion of a name .

In some embodiments the UI component can control the UI to display information inquiring about whether a contact on the communication device s social contacts card is a SN contact on a SN network with which the user is affiliated. The UI can display a button or icon that can be activated or text box into which text can be entered to provide an entry indicating whether the contact on the communication device s contacts card is a SN contact on a SN network with which the user is affiliated. As such selection of one or more of the SN contacts can be received via an input to the communication device .

The manual linking component can search for a corresponding contact to the SN contact selected. Upon locating a corresponding contact the manual linking component can link the SM information for the selected SN contact with the corresponding contact.

In various embodiments the manual linking component can receive inputs for overwriting preexisting links and replacing such preexisting links with new links to different contacts and or linking more than one SN contact to a contact. The manual linking component can also receive an input to create a link and can determine whether a link is already created between the SN contact and the contact.

In some embodiments manual linking can be initiated at a display region of the UI at which the communication device is displaying a list of contacts. The user can manually select the contacts and the communication device can link the contact to the SN contact. In some embodiments the communication device can determine whether the contact is already linked to a SN contact prior to performing the linking. If the contact is already linked to a SN contact the communication device can notify the user and await an entry by the user as to whether the user would like to replace the previously existing link with the current link thereby removing the existing link from the contact and linking the contact to the SN contact currently indicated.

As such the embodiments described herein enable selection of SN contacts and creation of links between the SN contact and an existing contact stored on or accessible by the communication device .

Upon batch or manual linking the contacts and SM information the two types of information can be integrated and displayed in the triptych UI for a designated contact as described in and in U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 643 726 filed Dec. 21 2009 titled SYSTEMS APPARATUS METHODS AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIA FOR FACILITATING INTEGRATED MESSAGING CONTACTS AND SOCIAL MEDIA FOR A SELECTED ENTITY which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The communication device can also include a SM component . The SM component can work in conjunction with the SM management component in some embodiments. In other embodiments the communication device need not include a separate SM component and the one or more functions of the SM component can be included in the functionality of the SM management component .

As such in various embodiments the SM component and or the SM management component can be configured to control the receipt aggregation generation output and or filtering of SM information at the communication device . By way of example but not limitation SM information can include but is not limited to information associated with or output from SM feeds blog information chat information text messaging information instant messaging information and the like. The SM information can be displayed in any number of arrangements including but not limited to the subject matter of the SM feed the SNS from which the social media feed is provided and or the chronological order of the SM feeds. In some embodiments the SM information can include comments posted or a number of comments posted in association with one or more social media feeds for the individual. In some embodiments one or more comments can be shown on the UI with the one or more feeds. SM applications can include applications that provide SM feeds news feeds and wall postings from FACEBOOK activity updates e.g. tweets from TWITTER or other information from SNSs such as MYSPACE sites of interest and the like.

In various embodiments as described herein and with reference to any number of different applications including but not limited to a messaging application a contacts application and or a SM application where an entity person or individual is discussed the entity person or individual can be a legal or natural entity person or individual. Similarly in various embodiments as described herein and with reference to any number of different applications including but not limited to a messaging application a contacts application and or a SM application where an entity or group is discussed herein the entity or group can include one or more legal or natural entities persons or individuals. By way of example but not limitation an entity or group could be an organization a business entity a group of humans and or a group including a legal and a natural person or entity.

The communication device can also include an application integration component AIC not shown . In some embodiments the AIC can include software and or hardware configured to integrate one or more applications at an individual level or at a group level. Integrating one or more applications at an individual level can include retrieving and or providing information specific to an individual. Integrating one or more applications at a group level can include retrieving and or providing information specific to a group or individuals of or members of the group. For example the AIC can provide messaging contacts and or social media information about a specific individual or for a specific group or for specific members of a group.

In these embodiments the AIC can enable the communication device to be individual targeted or group targeted in provisioning of contact messaging and or SM information without requiring a user of the communication device to enter individual applications for each of the contact messaging and or SM information.

As such while the messaging component contacts component and the SM component can allow the user of the communication device to view messaging contacts and SM information about one or more individuals or groups on a single display region of the UI when the AIC integrates the messaging contacts and or SM application the AIC can do such integration at an individual or group level. As such upon integration the messaging contacts and or SM information can be targeted towards a single individual and or a single group. The targeted information can be information that displays details specific to or about the individual and or group. Such targeted information can be displayed by UI.

The communication device can also include a messaging component configured to create transmit and or receive messages SM information and or initiate or receive calls. The messages can include but are not limited to SMS messages MMS messages instant messages email messages or the like. The calls can include but are not limited to telephone calls received from a PSTN VoIP calls video and the like.

The communication device can also include a processor configured to execute computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the functions described herein and the communication device can include the memory for storing the computer executable instructions and or information for performing the operations described herein. The communication device can also include the UI configured to provide the displays of information from the communication device as described herein. The communication device can also include an I O component to receive information to and output information from the communication device .

The communication device can include a memory and data store component . The memory and or data store component can store information and or settings and or computer executable instructions for performing one or more functions described herein for the communication device . In various embodiments as described below with reference to method of for example the data store component can store information including but not limited to contacts information SM information information indicative of whether or not a contact or SN contact is linked or unlinked SM information settings for performing batch linking e.g. a maximum number of SN contacts that can be linked during a single batch linking process and the like.

In various embodiments the data store component can store data structures e.g. user data application data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes neighbor cell list information relating to securing the communication device and information associated therewith displaying information in the UI display screen generating or displaying an overlay display region generating or processing notifications and associated notification related information network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms and so on. In an aspect the processor can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store component in order to store and retrieve information e.g. neighbor cell list information relating to securing the communication device and information associated therewith displaying information in the UI display screen generating or displaying an overlay display region generating or processing notifications and associated notification related information frequency offsets desired algorithms etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to SM management component UI component and or other operational aspects or components of the communication device .

One or more databases or data store components can be included in or accessible by system although not shown. The databases can be store information including but not limited to information about user of the communication device static information e.g. unique identification for the SNSs authentication and state information for the SNSs linking information between the contacts for the communication device and SN contacts each linked SM card each unlinked SM card unique contact identification for the linked contact SNS ID of a linked SN contact SNS user ID signed into the SN user ID for a linked SN contact username for a linked SN contact avatar URL for a linked SN contact primary key to retrieve feed items for a specific SN and user unique ID for each SNS SNS login e.g. email for the user that is signed in URL for the avatar for the SN user that is signed in a flag to indicate if batch linking was successfully completed after adding a SN a flag to indicate if avatar photos for all batch linked SN contacts were successfully downloaded after adding a SN timestamp the user last viewed the SN feed on the communication device display text for a feed item thumbnails for photo album feed items author information for individual feed items photo albums and or each photo in the photo album. The databases can also store SM information and contacts information.

While the embodiments described herein are described with reference to a combination of two or more components in various embodiments one or more of the functions or structure or part thereof associated with the two or more components of the communication devices can be performed or provided in the SM management component respectively. Additionally steps associated with various methods described herein that can be described with reference to different components or applications can be performed by a single component or application. Finally multiple steps can be combined and performed in a single step single steps can be performed as multiple steps and steps described as being performed in sequence or parallel can be performed partly or completely in parallel or sequence respectively.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the disclosed subject matter can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices can include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to read only memory ROM random access memory RAM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communication media can embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules and or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or modulated data signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above can also be included within the scope of communication media. In some embodiments communication media are capable of subsequently propagating through electrically conductive media e.g. such as a system bus microprocessor data port and the like and or non electrically conductive media e.g. in the form of radio frequency microwave frequency optical frequency and similar electromagnetic frequency modulated data signals .

In accordance with various aspects the computing environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors such a single core processor a multi core processor or any other suitable arrangement of processors. The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory can include ROM random access memory RAM high speed RAM such as static RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM flash memory and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the computer can include a hard disk drive upon which program instructions data and the like can be retained. Moreover removable data storage can be associated with the computer . Hard disk drives removable media computer readable storage media etc. can be communicatively coupled to the processing unit by way of the system bus .

The system memory can retain a number of program modules such as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. All or portions of an operating system applications modules and or data can be for instance cached in RAM retained upon a hard disk drive or any other suitable location. A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices such as a keyboard pointing and clicking mechanism pressure sensitive screen microphone joystick stylus pen etc. A monitor or other type of interface can also be connected to the system bus .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers phones or other computing devices such as workstations server computers routers personal computers portable computers microprocessor based entertainment appliances peer devices or other common network nodes etc. The computer can connect to other devices networks by way of antenna port network interface adaptor wireless access point modem and or the like.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least WiFi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

WiFi allows connection to the Internet from a desired location e.g. couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work etc. without wires. WiFi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. mobile phones computers etc. to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. WiFi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A WiFi network can be used to connect communication devices e.g. mobile phones computers etc. to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . WiFi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The embedded client communicates with an application APP that provides services and or information to an end user. One example of the application can be navigation software that provides near real time traffic information that is received via the embedded client to the end user. The navigation software can provide road conditions suggest alternate routes etc. based at least in part on the location of the MS . Those of ordinary skill in the art understand that there are many different methods and systems of locating an MS .

Alternatively the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH technologies. For example a BLUETOOTH SIM Access Profile can be provided in an automobile e.g. device that communicates with the SIM in the MS to enable the automobile s communications system to pull information from the MS . The BLUETOOTH communication system in the vehicle becomes an embedded phone that employs an antenna associated with the automobile. The result is improved reception of calls made in the vehicle. As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize an automobile is one example of the device . There can be an endless number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS. Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR contains information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations and security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . In embodiments the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. The MS can operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS also supports simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles can receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time. A class B MS can attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However a class B MS does not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is a class B MS can only use one of the two services at a given time. A class C MS can attach for only one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time. Simultaneous attachment and operation of GPRS services and GSM services is not possible with a class C MS.

A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM network a MS can receive pages from a circuit switched domain e.g. voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS can suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM network a MS cannot receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS is receiving data and is not listening to a paging channel. In a NOM network a MS can monitor pages for a circuit switched network while received data and vice versa.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function CSCF of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator e.g. address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSS are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS .

The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISDN User Part ISUP Bearer Independent Call Control BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between Adaptive Multi Rate AMR and Pulse code modulation PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with other IP multimedia networks .

In some embodiments the IP networks described herein include networks communicatively coupled to SNSs. As such the networks disclosed herein can also include such IP networks and one or more SNSs.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. UE AP core network security component UI overlay component etc. as described with regard to a particular system or methodology can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methodologies disclosed herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. For example information relevant to operation of various components described in the disclosed subject matter and that can be stored in a memory can comprise but is not limited to comprising subscriber information cell configuration e.g. devices served by an AP or service policies and specifications privacy policies and so forth. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM programmable ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM phase change memory PCM flash memory or nonvolatile RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface module and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components and can be as simple as a command line or as complex as an Integrated Development Environment IDE . Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

Furthermore the embodiments can or can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer apparatus or article of manufacture to implement the functionality disclosed herein. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program or computer program product accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier computer readable media or computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip optical disks e.g. compact disk CD DVD Blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and or flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can carry computer readable electronic data e.g. the data transmitted and received via email and or to access the Internet or a network such as a LAN . As known to those of ordinary skill in the art modifications can be made to the above embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is merely intended to present examples of embodiments. Further as used herein the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the inclusive permutations e.g. X employs A X employs B X employs A and B . In addition the articles a and an as used herein should be construed to mean one or more unless as specified otherwise or clear from context the articles are directed to only a singular form.

As used herein the terms infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system apparatus method environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. By way of examples but not limitation inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states. The inference can be probabilistic e.g. the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events . Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

What has been described above includes embodiments of claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter. However one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of such subject matter are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

