---

title: Radio selection in a multi-radio device
abstract: Techniques for supporting communication by a wireless device having a set of radios and supporting a set of applications are described. In an aspect, radio selection may be performed based on interference information and additional information to obtain good performance. In one design, a plurality of radios available for use on the wireless device may be identified. Interference information indicative of interference between the plurality of radios may be obtained, e.g., from an interference database or a converted interference database. Additional information used for radio selection may also be obtained and may include information for communication profiles, communication preferences, application requirements, radio capabilities, etc. At least one radio may be selected for use for communication from among the plurality of radios based on the interference information and the additional information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08379551&OS=08379551&RS=08379551
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08379551
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100623
---
The present application claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 234 950 entitled COEXISTENCE ASSISTED SYSTEM SELECTION FOR MULTI RADIO OPERATION filed Aug. 18 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to techniques for supporting communication by a wireless communication device.

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication content such as voice video packet data messaging broadcast etc. These wireless networks may be multiple access networks capable of supporting multiple users by sharing the available network resources. Examples of such multiple access networks include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks Time Division Multiple Access TDMA networks Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA networks Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA networks and Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA networks.

A wireless communication device may include a number of radios to support communication with different wireless communication networks. The wireless device may also support a number of applications which may have different requirements. It may be desirable to support communication for active applications on the wireless device such that good performance can be achieved.

Techniques for supporting communication by a wireless device are described herein. The wireless device may include a set of radios that can support radio communication. Any number of radios and any one of the radios may be available at any given moment. The wireless device may also support a set of applications. Any number of applications and any one of the applications may be active at any given moment.

In an aspect radio selection may be performed based on interference information and additional information to obtain good performance. In one design a plurality of radios available for use on the wireless device may be identified e.g. by a connection manager within the wireless device. Interference information indicative of interference between the plurality of radios may be obtained. Additional information used for radio selection may also be obtained and may comprise information for communication profiles communication preferences application requirements radio capabilities etc. At least one radio may be selected for use for communication from among the plurality of radios based on the interference information and the additional information.

In one design an interference database may store information on interference conditions for the set of radios on the wireless device. The interference database may be converted to a converted interference database which may have a form that may be more readily or easily used for radio selection. The conversion may be performed when needed e.g. when radio selection is performed or periodically at a predetermined rate and or when interference conditions for the set of radios meet predefined criteria. The interference information may be obtained based on the converted interference database.

Cellular networks and may each be a CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA or some other network. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology or air interface such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA WCDMA and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. IS 2000 is also referred to as CDMA 1X and IS 856 is also referred to as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO . A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS etc. An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A are new releases of UMTS that use E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE A and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Cellular network may include a number of base stations that can support bi directional communication for wireless devices within their coverage. Similarly cellular network may include a number of base stations that can support bi directional communication for wireless devices within their coverage.

WLANs and may each implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi Hiperlan etc. WLAN may include one or more access points that can support bi directional communication. Similarly WLAN may include one or more access points that can support bi directional communication. WPAN may implement a radio technology such as Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 etc. WPAN may support bi directional communication for various devices such as wireless device a headset a computer a mouse etc.

Broadcast network may be a television TV broadcast network a frequency modulation FM broadcast network a digital broadcast network etc. A digital broadcast network may implement a radio technology such as MediaFLO Digital Video Broadcasting for Handhelds DVB H Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting for Terrestrial Television Broadcasting ISDB T Advanced Television Systems Committee Mobile Handheld ATSC M H etc. Broadcast network may include one or more broadcast stations that can support one way communication.

Satellite positioning system may be the United States Global Positioning System GPS the European Galileo system the Russian GLONASS system the Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS over Japan the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS over India the Beidou system over China etc. Satellite positioning system may include a number of satellites that transmit signals used for positioning.

Wireless device may be stationary or mobile and may also be referred to as a user equipment UE a mobile station a mobile equipment a terminal an access terminal a subscriber unit a station etc. Wireless device may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem a handheld device a laptop computer a cordless phone a wireless local loop WLL station a smart phone a netbook a smartbook a broadcast receiver etc. Wireless device may communicate two way with cellular networks and or WLANs and or devices within WPAN etc. Wireless device may also receive signals from broadcast network satellite positioning system etc. In general wireless device may communicate with any number of wireless networks and systems at any given moment.

In the design shown in radio subsystem includes a connection manager CnM a coexistence manager CxM a processing core a CnM database a CxM database and R radios through where R may be any value. Radio subsystem may be a modem chip a modem chipset a wireless data card etc. The R radios may be for 3GPP2 cellular networks e.g. CDMA 1X EVDO etc. 3GPP cellular networks e.g. GSM GPRS EDGE WCDMA UMTS LTE etc. WLANs WiMAX networks GPS Bluetooth broadcast networks Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID etc.

Connection manager may perform various functions to support communication for active applications via available radios. Within connection manager a CnM API may facilitate communication between connection manager and coexistence manager and applications as described below. A system policy manager may manage policies associated with the radios activate and de activate radios in response to events and manage handoffs between wireless networks. The policies may be used to determine which radio s to use for any given application. System policy manager may operate based on network operator rules which may be provided via a preferred roaming list PRL in 3GPP2 a list of preferred public land mobile networks PLMNs in 3GPP etc. A system resource manager may interface with system policy manager to perform resource management such as conflict resolution power management link quality of service QoS admission control etc. A radio interface manager may manage call change phone settings register de register supplementary services and notify applications regarding call status phone state status and service status. Radio interface manager may also manage service continuity using Mobile Internet Protocol MIP neighbor channel measurements better system detection pre authentication and security key exchange and other functional units for voice and data services. Radio interface manager may also support peer to peer communication between wireless device and other wireless devices. A CnM controller may be responsible for the overall control of connection manager . CnM controller may communicate with applications via CnM APIs to determine which applications are active obtain the requirements of the active applications and provide information on the available or selected radios. CnM controller may also coordinate the operation of other managers and controllers within connection manager e.g. through messages exchanged via a common bus .

Coexistence manager may interface with radios and may control the operation of the radios. Coexistence manager may receive inputs from active radios and may control the operation of the active radios to mitigate interference between these radios and achieve good performance for as many radios as possible. Within coexistence manager a CxM controller may be responsible for the overall control of coexistence manager . A look up table LUT may be associated with and interface with CxM database to retrieve pertinent parts of the database based on the current operating scenario. A hardware accelerator HWA may provide efficient processing of certain functions and may use a direct memory access DMA module to directly access a memory store.

Processor core may perform processing for the units within radio subsystem . Within processing core a central processing unit CPU may perform processing as requested by connection manager and coexistence manager . CPU may also perform processing for data being transmitted or received via radios . The processing for each radio may be dependent on the radio technology supported by that radio and may include encoding decoding modulation demodulation encryption decryption etc. Memory may store program code and data for connection manager and coexistence manager . A DMA fabric controller may support data transfer with local or external system memory or other subsystems. A bus controller may coordinate communication via data bus .

In one design processing core may perform processing for connection manager and coexistence manager e.g. for functions related to radio selection system selection and handoff between radios. CPU may be an embedded processor located within radio subsystem . CPU and associated memory can provide a single and centralized environment to host CnM and CxM functions. This may enable connection manager to provide real time management of all active radios in a localized environment. This may also enable connection manager to provide a scalable infrastructure to support any number of radios. CPU may be a low power processor with lower required performance than conventional CPUs in order to provide power savings in executing CxM and CnM functions. Furthermore CPU may provide an always on environment so that connection manager and coexistence manager can be functional when needed. This always on functionality may be assured while simultaneously enabling CPU to sleep when appropriate in order to reduce power consumption.

CxM database may store an interference database which may comprise information on performance of different combinations of radios in different operating scenarios. The interference database may be in the form of a color chart or some other format. The operation of radios may be controlled based on the interference database to obtain acceptable performance for the radios.

CnM database may store various types of information that may be used to select radios for applications. For example CnM database may store i a profile database of profiles that may be used to obtain connectivity ii a network database of information for different wireless networks e.g. a PRL a preferred PLMN list etc. iii a policy database of information used to select radios to provide connectivity for wireless device iv a converted interference database of information used to select radios for applications based on the current operating scenario and or v other databases of other information for wireless device .

In one design profiles may be used to provide connectivity for wireless device . A profile may contain preferences for specific actions that wireless device should perform to obtain connectivity. For example a profile may identify preferences for certain radios over other radios preferences for a particular radio under certain conditions etc. Different profiles may be defined by different entities such as a user a network operator an original equipment manufacturer OEM or wireless device manufacturer etc. The profiles may allow for conformance to the requirements of the different entities.

A number of profiles may be defined. In one design one or more of the following profiles may be defined 

A user profile may store preferences for connectivity defined by the user based on various considerations such as cost privacy battery usage etc. The user defined preferences may be used to select radios to provide connectivity for applications. For example the user profile may select a home WLAN when the user is at home may select a company WLAN when at work and may switch off WLAN in the car to save battery power.

An operator profile may store preferences for connectivity defined by a network operator. The network operator may prefer wireless device to use some radios over other radios when several radios are available within wireless device . For example the network operator may prefer to route traffic data via a preferred network of the operator or to offload traffic data when an access point is available e.g. in a WLAN of the network operator. The operator preferences may be defined based on a PRL for 3GPP2 networks a preferred PLMN list for 3GPP networks and or a list of preferred wireless networks.

An OEM profile may store preferences for connectivity defined by an OEM or manufacturer of wireless device . The OEM profile may be defined based on capabilities of wireless device which may be dependent on which specific radios are included in wireless device the available resources in wireless device etc. The available resources may be given by radio capabilities processing capabilities memory capacity battery power etc. The OEM profile may store rules preferences based on the available resources. Different decisions may be made based on all of the rules in the OEM profile.

An applications profile may store preferences for connectivity for applications on wireless device . An application may have certain requirements e.g. for QoS and each radio may have certain capabilities. The preferences may be based on the requirements of the applications the capabilities of the radios and or other factors. The preferences may be used to select the proper radios to provide connectivity for the applications.

A learned profile may store preferences for connectivity determined based on past activities or behavior of wireless device . Patterns and behaviors of wireless device may be gathered and used to create a new profile or to update an existing profile. The learned profile may also be established by local conditions such as the location of wireless device .

Five types of profiles have been described above. Fewer different and or additional profiles may also be defined and used to provide connectivity. A profile may be static and defined once semi static and changed once in a while or dynamic and updated periodically or asynchronously. A profile may be updated by the user other entities such as wireless device via an internal learning entity another user via a wired or wireless connection the operator network a service server etc. A profile may be loaded into wireless device automatically without user involvement or may require user approval for loading.

In an aspect connection manager and coexistence manager may cooperate to select radios for active applications such that good performance can be achieved. In one design connection manager may serve as a control entity for coexistence manager and may control the operation of coexistence manager to select radios and perform handoff between radios. In one design coexistence manager may be made aware of both single radio and multiple radio scenarios and may select one or more radios for the scenario under consideration. For example coexistence manager may be informed of a scenario in which multiple radios are part of the same communication thread e.g. cellular plus Bluetooth as part of a voice call. Coexistence manager may then select appropriate radios for the communication thread and may ensure proper concurrent operation of the selected radios.

Connection manager may establish rules parameters used to select radios. For example the rules may relate to priorities of radios resolutions between radios in case of conflict due to interference etc. The rules may be defined based on the profiles and preferences for communication requirements of the active applications coexistence state of different combinations of radios etc. The profiles and preferences may be stored in CnM database and may be retrieved as needed. The requirements of applications may relate to QoS air interface etc. An application may have certain QoS requirements which may be supported by certain radio technologies. For example a Videoshare application may have certain requirements that can be satisfied by EVDO. If a user leaves an EVDO network and enters a WLAN then specific action may be taken for the Videoshare application up to and including disabling the application.

In one scenario a single application may be active and may be assigned to and supported by a specific radio. In another scenario multiple applications may be active concurrently and may have different requirements e.g. for QoS and preferred radios. In this scenario the available radios may be prioritized based on the requirements of the active applications. QoS may be related to radio coexistence since QoS of a particular radio may decrease when interference between radios increases. For both scenarios connection manager may select one or more appropriate radios such that the requirements of one or more active applications can be satisfied.

Connection manager may set the priorities of radios based on the radio selection information and the interference information step . Connection manager may then select one or more radios for application based on the priorities of the radios and the available information step . Connection manager may communicate with coexistence manager to configure the selected radio s to obtain the desired performance step . Coexistence manager may periodically monitor interference conditions for the selected radio s and may report back to connection manager whenever the interference conditions change by predetermined amount step . Application may be connected to the selected radio s step .

As an example application may be a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application that may request for the best system to connect in step . Connection manager may determine that LTE at 2.5 GHz or CDMA 1X at 800 MHz can support the VoIP application in step . VoIP over LTE may be preferred by connection manager . However WLAN at 2.4 GHz may be active at the moment and the interference information from coexistence manager in step may indicate that LTE at 2.5 GHz is heavily interfered by WLAN at 2.4 GHz. Connection manager may then select CDMA 1X at 800 GHz for the VoIP application in step in order to avoid interference and provide better user experience. Alternatively connection manager may attempt to mitigate interference from WLAN at 2.4 GHz if possible and may then select LTE at 2.5 GHz for the VoIP application. In either case the most suitable radio may be selected for the VoIP application based on the radio selection information for the VoIP application and the interference information.

At a later time a second application may become active and may send a connection request to connection manager . The steps described above for application may be repeated for application . However the interference information obtained from coexistence manager may be dependent on radio s selected for other active applications as well as radios that can be used for application . One or more radio s may be selected for application from among the available radios based on the radio selection information for application and the interference information. Application may be connected to its selected radio s .

In another aspect one or more interference databases may be used by connection manager and coexistence manager to select radios for active applications. In one design coexistence manager may generate an interference database e.g. a color chart for a given multi radio platform which may be defined by all radios supported by wireless device . The interference database may be used to select radios and to reduce interference between active radios operating concurrently. In one design the interference database may be updated frequently e.g. every millisecond or less based on the current interference conditions. Connection manager may be a client entity for the interference database which may be used to determine which radio s to select at a given time.

In one design the interference database may be converted to a converted interference database which may be more suitable for use for radio selection for initial connection and or handoff. Radios are typically selected in a semi static manner and changes may be made relatively infrequently e.g. on the order of minutes or hours instead of milliseconds . The conversion may be performed e.g. by CPU within processing core in various manners. In one design the conversion may be implemented with a moving average filter of a suitable time constant e.g. approximately one second . This design may provide a more accurate indication of interference conditions observed by the radios. In one design the interference database may be converted from one format e.g. with decibel dB values to another format e.g. with color coded indicators or throughput values and or other information . This design may simplify the use of the interference information for radio selection.

In one design the conversion may be performed periodically at a predetermined rate which may be set by connection manager or negotiated between connection manager and coexistence manager . In another design a callback or alert mechanism may be used to allow coexistence manager to provide requested actions to connection manager . For example coexistence manager may alert connection manager when interference conditions between two radios X and Y meet predefined criteria.

In the design shown in color chart includes six cells for each band combination covering a specific band for a transmitter radio and a specific band for a receiver radio. For a given band combination three cells in the left column provide performance for a sensitivity scenario Sen and three cells in the right column provide performance for a nominal scenario Nom . The two cells in the top row indicate the percentage of channel combinations with acceptable performance designated by green color the two cells in the middle row indicate the percentage of channel combinations with marginal performance designated by yellow color and the two cells in the bottom row indicate the percentage of channel combinations with unacceptable performance designated by red color . For example in a block covering a Bluetooth transmitter in the 2.4 GHz band and an LTE receiver in the 2.6 GHz band 47 percent of all frequency channel combinations have acceptable performance for the sensitivity scenario 10 percent of all frequency channel combinations have marginal performance and 43 percent of all frequency channel combinations have unacceptable performance. The information in color chart may be obtained by i determining the performance e.g. acceptable marginal or unacceptable for each frequency channel combination for a given scenario e.g. sensitivity or nominal and ii determining the percentage of frequency channels for each performance level. In general any number of performance levels may be defined and color chart may provide the percentage of channel combinations for each performance level.

In another design a color chart may include a number of cells for a number of operating states for different transmitter and receiver radios. A radio may have one or more configurable parameters that may be adjusted to mitigate interference from the radio and or to improve the performance of the radio. A configurable parameter may be for a physical component within the radio such as an amplifier a filter an antenna an antenna array etc. A configurable parameter may also be for an operational parameter such as a transmit power level a frequency channel a traffic channel a scheduled period etc. A received power level may also be a configurable parameter if it can be varied e.g. by selecting different antennas and or more antennas. Each configurable parameter may be set to one of multiple possible settings values applicable for that parameter. The radio may have an operating state which may be defined by a particular setting for each configurable parameter. A configurable parameter may also be referred to as a knob a configurable parameter setting may also be referred to as a knob setting and an operating state may also be referred to as a knob state .

The color chart may include a set of columns for each frequency channel on which a transmitter radio can operate. Each column set may include a number of columns for different operating states of the transmitter radio. The color chart may also include a set of rows for each frequency channel on which a receiver radio can operate. Each row set may include a number of rows for different operating states of the receiver radio. A cell may be defined for each unique combination of operating states of the transmitter and receiver radios. Cell i j may correspond to operating state i for the transmitter radio and operating state j for the receiver radio. Cell i j may be filled with the performance level e.g. acceptable marginal or unacceptable for the receiver radio with the transmitter radio in operating state i and the receiver radio in operating state j. The operating state of the transmitter radio and or the operating state of the receiver radio may be varied as needed to obtain the desired performance.

Two exemplary color charts that may be used for the interference database are described above. Information regarding interference between radios may also be captured and presented in a color chart or an interference database in other manners e.g. quantized in other ways presented using other formats or structures etc.

In one design the converted interference database may be provided in a numeric form or a coded form. The numeric form may be provided in units of dB and may indicate the amount of interference e.g. 5 dB for interference desense . The coded form may be provided by different indicators e.g. green yellow and red indicators . The indicators may be defined based on an interference metric e.g. in accordance with certain profile settings. For example a green indicator may indicate acceptable performance or that a corresponding radio combination is not impacted by radio interference. A yellow indicator may indicate marginal performance within the operating parameters of connection manager in its profile database. A red indicator may indicate unacceptable performance or severe radio interference. In this case connection manager may select an alternative radio if possible or take other actions such as notifying the user.

Connection manager may select M of the N available radios to provide connectivity for the K active applications where M 1. Connection manager may then map the K active applications to the M selected radios based on the operating rules. In the example shown in a first active application may be mapped to a first selected radio a second active application may be mapped to a second selected radio and a third active application may be mapped to the second selected radio and a third selected radio based on the operating rules. Each active application may communicate with any entity to obtain the desired communication service. The endpoints for the applications are shown in the cloud which may be the Internet.

The active applications may change. Furthermore one or more selected radios may no longer be available e.g. due to mobility and or other radios may become available or may be more preferred. Coexistence manager may update the interference database and the converted interference database due to changes in the available radios and the radio environment. Connection manager may update the selected radios due to changes in the active applications the interference information the available radios the applicable profiles the device operating state the available resources and or other factors.

In one design radio selection may be performed as follows. An operating state of each active radio may be sampled and stored at a given time instance. This information may be used to look up one or more values in the interference database which may return a coexistence metric or color e.g. an amount of desense in dB for a receiver radio. A decision making process may be initiated and knobs of radios may be varied in order to improve the coexistence metric. These steps may be repeated iteratively until a desired coexistence metric is obtained.

In one design that may be more hardware centric some or all of the steps described above may be performed in hardware e.g. by a programmable state machine or a hardware accelerator rather than in software. In the hardware centric design look up table in may store a database that may be a smaller version of the larger interference database in CxM database . Look up table may be implemented on a small memory that may be available to only the affected radios. Look up table may be accessed by a state machine via configurable parameters knobs using a suitable addressing scheme and may provide coexistence metric s . The state machine may vary the knob settings of radios and may access look up table iteratively until the desired result is obtained. DMA module may provide data paths to local and or external memory to facilitate the above operation.

In one design that may be more software centric a software based module may programmatically vary knob settings execute table lookups and iteratively drive to the desired result.

In yet another aspect connection manager may communicate with other entities via APIs. In one design an API may be defined to support communication between connection manager and applications and other entities above connection manager . This API may allow the other entities to access information available to connection manager and or coexistence manager . In one design an API may be defined to support communication between connection manager and coexistence manager . This API may enable easy access to information maintained by coexistence manager .

For example connection manager may request and or receive converted interference database parameters for the interference database and or other information via the API. The API between connection manager and coexistence manager may be defined in a flexible manner based on the operation of connection manager . Some API calls may be for an as required mode and may allow connection manager to request for information and receive it immediately from coexistence manager . Some API calls may be for a on change mode and may allow connection manager to receive information from coexistence manager when triggered by certain conditions e.g. a specified change. The on change mode may be referred to as a callback function or a restricted callback where restricted may refer to specific conditions for callback.

In one design a set of API calls may be defined to configure policies profiles e.g. as shown in Table 1. An application or connection manager may use the API calls in this set to retrieve or update the profiles in CnM database . For example an API call may be originated to obtain an applications to radios ordered list conveying the preferred mapping of applications to radios.

In one design a set of API calls may be defined for actions related to connectivity e.g. as shown in Table 2. Connection manager may use the API calls in this set to establish application sessions using one or more radio connections. For example connection manager may retrieve interference information for different radio combinations set the priorities of radios select and configure the selected radios establish or release radio connections etc.

In one design a set of API calls may be defined for configuration of radios e.g. as shown in Table 3. Connection manager may use the API calls in this set to retrieve or update the configuration of radios e.g. for bandwidth latency QoS etc.

In one design a set of API calls may be defined to obtain connection status and support callback notification e.g. as shown in Table 4. Connection manager may use the API calls in this set to register for callback notifications on status of radios e.g. to be notified when a radio degrades below a particular level.

Some exemplary API calls that may be used for communication with connection manager and coexistence manager have been described above. Other API calls may also be defined for communication with connection manager and coexistence manager e.g. to support additional functionalities.

The additional information may comprise information for at least one communication profile e.g. for applications a network operator a user etc. or at least one communication preference or requirements of at least one application or capabilities of the plurality of radios or cost or available battery power on the wireless device or some other information or a combination thereof. In one design of block at least one requirement of at least one active application may be obtained and used to select the at least one radio. The at least one requirement may comprise at least one QoS requirement e.g. delay requirements at least one throughput requirement some other requirements or a combination thereof. In another design QoS capabilities of the plurality of radios may be obtained and used to determine the priorities of the radios. The at least one radio may be selected based further on the priorities of the plurality of radios. In general one or more rules may be determined based on the interference information and the additional information and may be used to select the at least one radio.

In one design the interference information may be obtained based on an interference database storing information on interference conditions for a set of radios. The information on interference conditions for the set of radios may be determined empirically or measured by the wireless device or downloaded from an external source or a combination thereof. In one design the interference database may be updated periodically e.g. at a rate of every second or less to reflect current interference conditions for the available radios.

In one design the interference database may be converted to a converted interference database and the interference information may be obtained based on the converted interference database. The interference database may store information in a first form. The converted interference database may store information in a second form which may be different from the first form. In general each interference database may include numeric form indicators e.g. dB values throughput values etc. or coded form indicators e.g. green yellow and red or some other indicators or combination thereof. The second form may be more readily used for radio selection. The conversion may be based on a moving average filter and or some other function of the first form to obtain the second form. The conversion may be performed when needed e.g. when radio selection is performed or periodically at a predetermined rate and or when interference conditions for the set of radios meet predefined criteria.

The interference information may be used to select radios and or to control the operation of the radios to obtain good performance. In one design a radio for which the interference information indicates acceptable interference impact between the radio and remaining radios may be selected for use. A radio for which the interference information indicates unacceptable interference impact between the radio and at least one other radio may not be selected. Alternatively the operation of one or more radios may be altered e.g. by changing frequency transmit power level etc. to mitigate interference between radios.

In one design a first entity e.g. a connection manager may obtain the interference information from a second entity e.g. a coexistence manager and may select the at least one radio. The first entity may send a request for interference information to the second entity. The second entity may immediately send the interference information in response to the request. Additionally or alternatively the second entity may send the interference information when changes in interference conditions meet predefined criteria. The first and second entities may also interact in other manners to perform radio selection.

In one design the first and second entities may communicate via API to obtain the interference information or to control parameters of the interference database and or for other purposes. In one design the first entity may communicate with at least one entity above the first entity via API obtain at least some of the additional information used for radio selection. The API for each case may allow different entities to retrieve information from each other and or to control the operation of another entity.

In one design processing for the first and second entities may be performed by an embedded dedicated processor e.g. CPU in on the wireless device. The steps in may thus be performed by the dedicated processor. In other designs the steps in may be performed by one or more processors which may be located anywhere on the wireless device.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Headings are included herein for reference and to aid in locating certain sections. These headings are not intended to limit the scope of the concepts described therein under and these concepts may have applicability in other sections throughout the entire specification.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

