---

title: Techniques to provide integrated voice service management
abstract: Techniques to provide integrated voice service management are described. An apparatus may comprise a mobile computing device having a voice service manager operative to receive control directives from one or more application programs, and manage one or more service features provided by multiple voice service platforms based on the received control directives, with at least one of the multiple voice service platforms comprising a voice over packet voice service platform. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437339&OS=08437339&RS=08437339
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08437339
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones have become highly capable communication devices in recent years. In addition to the wide array of processing capabilities such as digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. email with a desktop computer and so forth mobile computing devices also typically include wireless communications capabilities to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile email access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Voice service for a mobile computing device is typically provided by a host cellular radiotelephone system. For instance a mobile computing device may connect to another wired or wireless communication device over a wireless voice channel provided by a cellular radiotelephone system. In the former case the voice signals may partially traverse a wired voice channel provided by the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . However recent innovations in Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP or Voice Over Packet VOP services allow voice communications over both wireless and wired data networks. As such a mobile computing device may have access to multiple voice service platforms over both voice and data channels. However manually managing multiple voice service platforms may be tedious and burdensome task for a user. It is with respect to these and other reasons that techniques to improve management of voice services for a mobile computing device are needed.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques to provide integrated and integrated voice service management for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone for example. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques to provide integrated voice service management to control various service features provided by multiple voice service platforms including voice service features voicemail service features message service features among others. This may enhance behavior and performance for various hardware and or software components of a mobile computing device such as power conservation voice quality costs and so forth. This may also enhance user convenience by automatically selecting and establishing voice and data connections to one or more voice service platforms based on a set of decision parameters rules and or preferences.

A mobile computing device typically comprises different types of radios usually having at least one radio for voice service features and another radio for data communications. For instance when implemented as a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE device a mobile computing device may include a first radio designed to use a first set of radio frequencies for voice service features e.g. 850 900 1800 1900 MHz and a second set of radio frequencies for data communications e.g. 2100 MHz . Other exemplary radios may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 and 802.16 enabled devices for data communications.

As a result of the implementation of multiple radios in a single device combined with advances in cost structures and deployment of VOP technologies a mobile computing device may now implement or access many different types of VOP voice services using both circuit switching and packet switching technologies. This creates a use scenario where multiple voice services may be accessed by a single mobile computing device thereby providing alternate communications paths for voice communications such as a mobile telephone call. However manually controlling access to services provided by multiple voice service platforms may be tedious time consuming and inefficient for a user. For instance each service may have its own phone number screen name and or security credentials. Keeping track of all of these details can be difficult making it cumbersome to select a particular voice service when a user subscribes to more than one. Furthermore a user is forced to choose a particular application and or voice service platform each time the user desires to place a phone call. This requires learning how to use multiple applications and keeping track of which services are available for a given network to which they are connected. In addition each voice service platform typically requires a standalone application to be downloaded and implemented by a mobile computing device. These standalone applications are not integrated with each other and are not integrated with an existing operating system or other system and application programs already implemented for a given mobile computing device. As a result each time a user switches to a different voice service platform the user must use different modalities input devices and user interfaces thereby leading to an inconsistent user experience.

To solve these and other problems enhanced voice service management techniques may be implemented to integrate and manage different types of voice services on behalf of a user or device automating some or all of the service features provided by or associated with each of the different voice service platforms. Implementation and operational details for each voice service platform may be integrated with standard application programs e.g. a phone dialer for a phone application already implemented for a given mobile computing device thereby providing a familiar consistent and convenient user interface for a user. When a user places a call the enhanced voice service management techniques will automatically select an appropriate voice service platform to use based on such factors as a current connected network and its calling services a region where the called party is located need to present a particular phone number or screen name to the called party calling services available to the called party and so forth. If the enhanced voice service management techniques needs assistance with a decision or the user wants more manual control a user interface may present available services to a user along with information to assist the user in making decisions such as features and costs of placing a call using each service. When receiving voicemail messages the enhanced voice service management techniques adjust the features and data available in ach voicemail message such that it can be presented in a common user interface e.g. visual voicemail .

The various enhanced voice service management techniques provide several advantages over conventional techniques. The enhanced voice service management techniques are superior to conventional techniques because they manage details of optimizing a voice calling experience allowing users to focus on content for their call rather than burdening them with technical details about various voice services. It also allows them to use features integrated into an existing phone application and or operating system. For instance enhanced voice service management techniques reduces or eliminates the need for a user to manually manage different login accounts contact information messaging channels security credentials and so forth. This also reduces or eliminates the need for a user to access and launch separate standalone programs for each voice service platform. The enhanced voice service management techniques may also result in increases in device performance such as power conservation voice quality memory utilization application integration and responsiveness software upgrades processor loads operating system efficiency software stack management legacy implementations and so forth.

In various embodiments an enhanced voice service manager may generally implement techniques to provide integrated voice service management to control various service features of voice service platforms including voice service features voicemail service features message service features among others. In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may implement a voice service manager operative to receive control directives from one or more application programs and manage one or more service features provided by multiple voice service platforms based on the received control directives with at least one of the multiple voice service platforms comprising a voice over packet VOP voice service. VOP voice services may sometimes be referred to as cloud services or web services as they are typically supported by a network entity. Examples of VOP voice services may include web based voice services such as Google Voice and Skype among others. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements nodes or modules in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements nodes or modules in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. It should also be understood that the use of the term control to refer to data and or signals throughout the application can refer to data flowing in any direction as control and or status data or signals.

In some embodiments one or more interfaces may employ various techniques to exchange information between the elements of the mobile computing device . For example an interface may activate and or detect activated signal lines. Such signal lines may be dedicated to particular signals. Alternatively an interface may generate data messages to be transmitted across various connections. Exemplary connections may include a parallel interface a serial interface a bus interface and or a data network.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as the Palm Pre Palm Pixi and Palm Treo line of smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor a communications processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging email web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store a voice service manager in the form of executable program instructions code or data. Additionally or alternatively the memory may also store one or more application programs and or a user interface in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to adaptively control one or more operational parameters for the mobile computing device such as operation and or communication parameters of the radio module . Although the voice service manager the application programs and or the user interface are described as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the voice service manager the application programs and or the user interface may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device such as a radio or communications processor and accompanying memory implemented by the radio module . Further although the voice service manager the application programs and the user interface are depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that some or all of these elements may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The application programs are generally designed to allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more message applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication. The illustrated embodiment shown in illustrates a phone application a contact application and a message application . It may be appreciated however that the mobile computing device may have other application programs as desired for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The user interface may comprise any user interface or graphic user interface GUI suitable for use with the mobile computing device . The user interface may comprise a stand alone application or part of another application such as an operating system. The user interface may be arranged to receive information from the voice service manager and or the application program and generate a user interface message for display on a digital display of the mobile computing device . The user interface message may also contain various user interface elements such as radio buttons or menu choices to receive user commands via a suitable input device e.g. a touch screen thumb board keypad trackball scroll wheel and so forth .

The radio module may comprise one or more radios also referred to as wireless transceivers each having various radio elements including a radio processor one or more transceivers amplifiers filters switches and so forth. The radio module may communicate with remote devices across different types of wireless links utilizing various wireless wide area network WWAN communications techniques. For example the radio module may communicate across wireless links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth. The radio module or additional radio modules may also communicate across data networking links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples.

In some cases the radio module may additionally or alternatively communicate across various non cellular communications links such as a wireless local area network WLAN . The radio module may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems or wireless personal area networks WPAN such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 v2.1 v3.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and any revisions progeny and variants and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

It may be appreciated that the radio module may utilize different communications elements e.g. radio processors transceivers etc. to implement different communications techniques. Furthermore the radio module may support multiple communications techniques by implementing multiple sets of corresponding radio equipment. For example the radio module may support GSM communications using the radio IEEE 802.xx e.g. 802.11 or 802.16 communications using the radio Bluetooth communications using the radio not shown and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The radio module may have a radio manager arranged to control some or all of the operations for the radio module . For instance the radio manager may cause one or more radios implemented by the radio module to periodically or continuously scan wireless shared media such as one or more portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum. The radio module may implement a scanning algorithm to perform various scanning operations for radio energy. Radio energy may refer to RF energy used by a radio or wireless transceiver for communicating information rather than spurious energy received from various electronic devices such as a microwave monitor television and so forth. For example the radio module and or the radio manager may measure a received radio signal strength received signal strength RSS or received signal strength indication RSSI from nearby wireless resources collectively referred to herein as RSSI . An RSSI is typically a measurement of the power present in a received radio signal in arbitrary units. The RSSI may provide an indication of how much information may be communicated between devices. Typically a lower RSSI implies lower information rates or quality while a higher RSSI implies higher information rates or quality.

The scanning operations may include scanning for radio energy of a given RSSI in the appropriate bands or sub bands of the RF spectrum allocated to the one or more transceivers or radios implemented by the radio module . For example the radio module may scan for various radio signals received from various wireless resources . The wireless resources may utilize a radio module implementing the same or similar communication techniques as implemented for the radio module . The radio module may perform the scanning operations using a scan list to scan various sets of frequencies. The radio module may perform scanning operations for any number of reasons such as establishing managing or terminating a voice communication session or a data communication session performing hand off operations when the mobile computing device is moving between wireless resources e.g. switching communication channels for the same wireless resource e.g. due to bandwidth or quality issues and so forth.

The radio manager may use the information collected during scanning operations to measure or estimate available bandwidth for the wireless communication channel based on one or more communication parameters. In general digital bandwidth network bandwidth or just bandwidth is a measure of available or consumed data communication resources expressed in bits per second bit s or multiples of it e.g. kbit s Mbit s etc . Bandwidth may refer to bandwidth capacity or available bandwidth in bit s which typically means the net bit rate channel capacity or the maximum throughput of a logical or physical communication path in a digital communication system. The radio manager may collect or measure various characteristics of an RF channel to estimate an available bandwidth for the RF channel. This measurement may also include previous samples such as previously consumed bandwidth corresponding to an average data rate of successful data transfer through a communication path sometimes referred to as throughput or goodput. The radio manager may use prospective or historical information about the RF channel to generate an available bandwidth parameter for one or more radios of the radio module .

It is worthy to note that although the radio manager is shown implemented as part of the radio module in the depicted embodiment it may be appreciated that the radio manager may be implemented in other parts of the mobile computing device such as the processor and memory for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The power module may be arranged to provide power for the mobile computing device . In one embodiment the power module may comprise a power supply or power supply unit and the power manager . The power supply may be arranged to provide electrical power to the various elements of the mobile computing device and include a power distribution system as well as primary and or secondary sources of energy. The primary source may include AC line voltage converted to a well regulated lower voltage DC for electronic devices e.g. using a transformer or power converter . The secondary source may include a portable power source such as a battery that provides lower voltage DC as well. The battery may comprise rechargeable and or non rechargeable types of batteries.

The power manager may manage various operations for the power supply and or the mobile computing device such as increasing or decreasing an amount of power provided to a given set of elements for the mobile computing device or placing a given set of elements in various power consumption modes. The power manager may also be arranged to measure an amount of remaining power capacity available from the power supply and generate an available power parameter. The available power parameter may represent for example a discharge rate having a unit of amperes A milliampere mA ampere hour Ah milliampere hour mAh or milliampere second mAs or some other measurable power unit. In one embodiment the available power parameter may vary as a function of radio signal conditions of a given RF operating environment. For example better RF conditions typically consume less transmit power and therefore a radio from the radio module may transmit at a lower power level. As a result x mA of a battery is able to last longer. By way of contrast under worse RF conditions the same x mA of battery may last for a shorter period of time since the radio has to transmit at higher power level. In one embodiment for example the power manager may exchange information with the radio manager to factor in radio signal conditions when determining an available power parameter for the power supply of the power module .

The wireless resources may comprise any wireless device fixed or mobile utilizing a radio module implementing the same or similar communication techniques as implemented for the radio module . Examples of wireless resources may include without limitation a wireless access point for a WLAN such as an 802.11 or 802.16 system a base station or node B for a WWAN such as a cellular radiotelephone system a wireless gateway for an enterprise network a peer device such as another mobile computing device a Bluetooth device for a WPAN and so forth.

In general operation the radio module may receive radio signals from one or more wireless resources such as a wireless access point or base station. In one embodiment for example the radio manager may be operative to collect one or more samples for the one or more wireless resources based on the received radio signals. The sample may be some measurable characteristic of the one or more wireless resources such as a RSSI value and or SNR value derived from the received radio signals of the one or more wireless resources a number of wireless resources derived from the received radio signals a communication protocol used by one or more wireless resources an application program used by one or more wireless resources a parameter or control directive received from one or more wireless resources and so forth. Other measurable characteristics for the wireless resources may be collected as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

By virtue of the various radios implemented by the radio module some of which are capable of providing voice services over dedicated voice channels as well as VOP services over data channels the mobile computing device may be arranged to support various service features offered by different voice service platforms . The voice service manager may generally implement techniques to provide integrated voice service management to control various service features of voice service platforms including one or more voice service features voicemail service features message service features and so forth. The voice service manager may be arranged to manage the various different types of service features on behalf of a user or device automating some or all of the service features provided by or associated with each of the different voice service platforms . The various application programs may be communicatively coupled to the voice service manager and may access the various service features of the various voice service platforms through the voice service manager or vice versa. The user interface may be communicatively coupled to the application programs and the voice service manager to provide custom GUI views to a user and receive user input for enhanced voice service management.

Voice service platforms may be communicatively coupled to one or more electronic devices . Electronic devices may comprise any end point device capable of communicating voice and data information with the mobile computing device . Examples of electronic devices may comprise any of those given for the mobile computing device and or the wireless resources further including user equipment UE such as a telephone. In one embodiment for example the mobile computing device and one or more of the electronic devices may communicate voice and data information for any of the service features provided by the voice service platforms . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In particular illustrates an exemplary voice service management architecture suitable for managing various service features for the mobile computing device . As shown in the voice service manager may be communicatively coupled to each of the application programs and the user interface to exchange information with each other over one or more communications buses and associated interfaces. In various embodiments the voice service manager may be operative to communicate one or more control directives with the various application programs and manage one or more service features provided by multiple voice service platforms based on the received control directives with at least one of the multiple voice service platforms comprising a voice over packet VOP voice service. For instance the voice manager may manage or control different voice service platforms accessible via one or more radios of the radio module on behalf of the mobile computing device in general and the application programs in particular.

The voice service platforms may each comprise or be implemented as any equipment or devices including hardware and or software implementing transmission technologies for delivery of voice service features over a network including circuit switched packet switched networks and or a combination of both.

In one embodiment for example one or more of the voice service platforms may comprise a communications platform e.g. a switching center maintained by a cellular radiotelephone system provider offering conventional voice channels and or data channels and may be referred to herein as a carrier voice service platform . In this case the mobile computing device may form a communication channel with the carrier voice service platform by communicating radio signals with one or more wireless resources . The wireless resource may comprise for example a cellular network infrastructure component such as a base station or Node B and in some cases may include co located data networking equipment e.g. GPRS EDGE EVDO HSDPA and or HSUPA infrastructure equipment . The carrier voice service platform may further include a switching center gateway or bridge to establish a communication channel with an electronic device via a network. The network may comprise a circuit switched network with dedicated voice channels such as the PSTN or a packet switched network such as the Internet. It may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may form a data connection with the wireless resource via cellular data network equipment e.g. GPRS EDGE EVDO HSDPA and or HSUPA infrastructure equipment to offer VOP services via a cellular radiotelephone system platform.

In one embodiment for example one or more of the voice service platforms may comprise a communications platform offered by a network service provider e.g. an Internet Service Provider or Web Service Provider offering conventional voice channels and or data channels and may be referred to herein as a VOP voice service platform . In this case the mobile computing device may form a communication channel with the carrier voice service platform by communicating radio signals with one or more wireless resources . The wireless resource may comprise for example a wireless access point for an IEEE 802.11 or IEEE 802.16 network. The VOP voice service platform may further include a switching center gateway or bridge to establish a communication channel with an electronic device via a network. The network may comprise a circuit switched network with dedicated voice channels such as the PSTN or a packet switched network such as the Internet. In the former case equipment would be needed to convert between circuit switched signals and packet switched signals and vice versa.

The VOP voice service platform represents a particular subset of service features and may refer to any equipment or devices including hardware and or software implementing transmission technologies for delivery of voice service features over a packet switched network such as Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP IP telephony Internet telephony Voice Over Broadband VoBB broadband telephony broadband phone and so forth. Examples of VOP voice services may include web based voice services such as Google Voice and Skype among others. A web based voice service typically provides a unique telephone number chosen by a user from available numbers in selected area codes. Inbound calls to the selected number are forwarded to other phone numbers of the user which may be configured to ring selectively or simultaneously when the selected number receives a call. The user may answer and receive the call on any of the ringing phones. Outbound calls may be placed to domestic and international destinations by dialing the selected number or from a web based application. The embodiments are not limited to web based voice services and may also operate with proprietary VOP voice services such as Cisco Unified Communications IP Telephony voice services for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It is worthy to note that in some embodiments the carrier voice service platform or the VOP voice service platform may be discussed with reference to specific service features e.g. voice service features voicemail service features message service features etc. however the embodiments are not limited to these particular examples. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Each of the voice service platforms including the carrier voice service platform and the VOP voice service platform may offer one or more service features . For instance the VOP voice service platform may include a VOP voice service feature a voicemail service feature and a message service feature . It may be appreciated that other voice service platforms including other VOP voice service platforms may have the same or different service features to those discussed for voice service platform . The service features may each comprise or be implemented as any service options associated with a given voice service platform . Examples of service features for a voice service platform may include without limitation voice service features call history call set up call tear down call handling call management administrative services conference calling call forwarding call switching call screening call blocking voice transcription or speech to text STT text transcription or text to speech TTS voicemail visual voicemail message service features video conferencing services multimedia collaboration sessions and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the voice service manager and the phone application may interoperate to manage access and use of any of the voice service platforms and associated service features . The phone application may interoperate with the user interface to implement and manage telephony services for the mobile computing device such as initiating outgoing telephone calls receiving incoming telephone calls establishing call conferences call forwarding call hold audio levels alerts ringtones speed dialing cellular telephone services VOP services Push to Talk PTT services and so forth. In one embodiment the phone application may send one or more control directives to the voice service manager to initiate voice service features or voicemail service features provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms 

In various embodiments the voice service manager and the contact application may interoperate to manage access and use of any of the voice service platforms and associated service features . The contact application may interoperate with the user interface to implement and manage contact information for the mobile computing device . The contact information may include personal information for a contact one or more contact identifiers address information photos and other information found in a conventional personal information manager PIM . In one embodiment the contact application may send one or more control directives to the voice service manager to initiate voice service features or voicemail service features provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms 

In various embodiments the voice service manager and the message application may interoperate to manage access and use of any of the voice service platforms and associated service features . In one embodiment for example the message application may send one or more control directives to the voice service manager to initiate message service features associated with one of the multiple voice service platforms . The mobile computing device may comprise or implement one or more message applications arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each of the message applications may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. The message applications may comprise without limitation a facsimile application a video message application an instant messaging IM application a chat application an email application a short message service SMS application a multimedia message service MMS application a social network system SNS application and so forth. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the message applications may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in addition to message applications which are consistent with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the voice service manager may be operative to receive one or more control directives from the various application programs and manage one or more service features provided by multiple voice service platforms based on the received control directives . For instance the voice service manager may receive a control directive to initiate one or more service features such as a voice service feature a voicemail service feature or a message service feature provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms . The particular voice service platform and or associated service feature may be determined in part by the received control directive itself.

In various embodiments a control directive may include a contact identifier. A contact identifier may comprise any identifier capable of identifying a user or a device such as a telephone number an email address a network address an Internet Protocol IP address an IP version 4 IPv4 address an IP version 6 IPv6 address a universal resource locator URL a domain name a hardware address e.g. a media access controller address VoIP or VOP display objects instant messaging IM addresses Skype accounts Google accounts photo display objects location information login information authentication information authorization information password personal identification number PIN globally unique identifier GUID and so forth. The contact identifier may vary in accordance with the type of communication technique used to communicate information. For example a contact identifier may comprise a telephone number when the type of communication technique is telephone call. In another example the contact identifier may comprise an IP address when the type of communication technique is a VoIP telephone call or file transfer protocol FTP request. In yet another example the contact identifier may comprise an email address when the type of communication technique is an email or IM message. It may be appreciated that the types of contact identifiers and communication techniques may vary as desired for a given implementation and the embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the voice service manager may be arranged to receive a control directive having a unique contact identifier for one of the multiple voice service platforms . A unique contact identifier is a single contact identifier e.g. a telephone number or email address that maps to a single voice service platform and or associated service feature . In other words a unique contact identifier has a one to one correspondence with a voice service platform and or service feature . In this case the voice service manager may give priority to using the specific voice service platform and or associated service feature corresponding to the unique contact identifier before attempting to use any other voice service platforms and or associated service feature . Additionally or alternatively the voice service manager may exclusively use the specific voice service platform and or associated service feature corresponding to the unique contact identifier without attempting to use any other voice service platforms and or associated service feature 

In one embodiment for example the voice service manager may be arranged to receive a control directive having a shared contact identifier. A shared contact identifier may represent or be associated with multiple contact identifiers with each contact identifier associated with a specific voice service platform and or associated service feature . In other words a shared contact identifier has a one to many correspondence with a voice service platform and or service feature . In this case the voice service manager may use a selection algorithm and set of rules or user preferences to select a particular voice service platform and or associated service feature from among all of the available voice service platforms and or associated service feature 

A user typically has multiple entry points to initiate a particular service feature provided by one or more of the voice service platforms such as a voice communication e.g. a telephone call . For instance the voice service manager may receive a control directive from the phone application to initiate the voice service feature provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms . Additionally or alternatively the voice service manager may receive a control directive from the contact application to initiate a voice service feature provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms . The voice service manager may extract a contact identifier from either of the control directives select a particular voice service platform based on the extracted contact identifier and send one or more control directives to the radio module to initiate a call connection with or through the appropriate wireless resource 

In various embodiments the voice service manager and the phone application and or the contact application may interoperate to manage access and use of any of the voice service platforms and associated service features . In one embodiment the voice service manager may receive one or both control directives to initiate voice service features provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms . The voice service manager may automatically or under user direction select one of the voice service features offered by the multiple voice service platforms . The voice service manager may then establish a voice communication session with another device e.g. wireless resource electronic device etc. over a wireless communications channel using the selected voice service platform 

The voice service manager may automatically select one of the voice service features offered by the multiple voice service platforms . When a user attempts to place a call the phone application will interface with the voice service manager to find an optimal calling service e.g. voice service feature of a given voice service platform to reach the called party. If a user has chosen to automatically use the optimal voice calling service the voice service manager will return connection information for placing a call to the phone application or the radio module . If a user desires to manually select a voice calling service the voice service manager may return via user interface information helpful in deciding which voice calling service to use such as a list of which voice service platforms are available costs associated with voice service feature of each voice service platforms reliability indicators quality indicators feature indicators and so forth. Once a user selects a given voice service platform the phone application will query the voice service manager for connection information needed to place a call using the selected service. The phone application and or the voice service manager may then attempt to complete a call using the selected service. A history of user selections may be maintained and used to order or prioritize a list of which voice service platforms are available when future calls are made.

Further operations for the voice service manager the phone application and the contact application may be described using one or more GUIs provided by the user interface via one or more control directives examples of which are provided in .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in for example a user may launch the phone application and begin typing in some form of a contact identifier using an input device e.g. touchscreen keyboard or thumbboard . For instance a GUI view displays letters for the contact identifier of Patricia C in the display object of the GUI view . As the letters for the contact identifier are entered into the mobile computing device an addressing widget for the phone application and or the contact application begins searching for any contact records matching the contact identifier. In this example a contact record for Patricia Campanella as indicated by a display object is found with two display objects having labels for two different contact identifiers. The display object displays a contact identifier comprising a telephone number in a conventional International Telecommunication Union ITU E.164 standard format. The display object displays metadata for the display object which in this case is a word WORK indicating that the contact identifier shown by the display object is a work telephone number for Patricia Campanella. The display object displays a contact identifier comprising a VOP contact identifier for a particular voice service platform which in this case is a Skype voice service platform . As shown the display object displays pcompanella in the form of a Skype Identifier and a label SKYPE is indicated by a display object .

If a user selects to call the contact identifier shown by display object the VOP contact identifier is treated the same as any other phone number type e.g. work mobile by the phone application and associated widgets. For instance a call log widget an active call widget and addressing widget for the phone application all use the correct label for the VOP contact identifier which in this case is SKYPE. As with a conventional phone number anywhere in the user interface dialog where the VOP contact identifier is referenced should have the appropriate contact identifier shown by the display object .

As shown in GUI view a user may select the contact identifier shown by the display object to initiate a communication session for a VOP telephone call using a voice service feature of the VOP voice service platform . Since this is a unique contact identifier for the voice service feature of the VOP voice service platform the voice service manager bypasses a voice service selection algorithm and attempts to establish the communication session using the voice service feature of the VOP voice service platform .

As shown in a GUI view once the call is completed the call log widget may illustrate details about the completed telephone call in the form of a call record as indicated by display object . The call record may include information indicating among other things that the call was established using the VOP voice service platform .

In some cases the GUI view may not list different contact identifiers for a given contact record but may simply display a single contact identifier indicating a name for a call record with the call record having multiple associated contact identifiers e.g. hidden or shown . For instance the GUI view may be modified to display only the display object for Patricia Campanella without the contact identifiers of display objects . In this case the display object for Patricia Campanella represents a shared contact identifier. A user may select the display object to initiate a telephone call without identifying a particular voice service platform thereby leaving details about selecting and completing the telephone call using a particular voice service platform to the voice service manager .

In one embodiment for example the voice service manager may receive the shared contact identifier represented by the display object and initiate a voice service selection algorithm to select a particular voice service platform from the multiple voice service platforms . The voice service manager may first discover and identify any contact identifiers associated with the shared contact identifier. This may be accomplished using the addressing widget. Continuing with our previous example the shared contact identifier for Patricia Campanella includes two different contact identifiers shown by the display objects and representing two different voice service platforms . The voice service manager then selects one of the voice service platforms to establish a voice or data connection over a wireless communications channel via radio signals with one or more wireless resources 

In various embodiments the voice service manager may select a particular voice service platform from the multiple voice service platforms in accordance with one or more communication parameters and selection rules. Selection rules may comprise logic for selecting a voice service platform based on one or more communication parameters. Some examples of communication parameters may include without limitation a list of available voice services a transmission quality parameter a reliability parameter a communication protocol a device capability a voice service feature cost value a power parameter user preference a location a calling region and so forth. Other examples of communication parameters may include without limitation a network scanning threshold parameter a radio frequency channel parameter an access point parameter a rate selection parameter a frame size parameter an aggregation size parameter a packet retry limit parameter a protocol parameter a radio parameter modulation and coding scheme MCS acknowledgement parameter media access control MAC layer parameter physical PHY layer parameter and any other communication parameters affecting operations for a radio implemented by the mobile computing device . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

A particular set of selection rules implemented for the voice service manager may vary as desired for a given set of design considerations and performance parameters. The selection rules may include default rules established by a manufacturer selectable rules from a voice service platform user preferences and so forth.

One example of a selection rule may comprise selecting a particular voice service platform based on current or available connections provided by one or more radios of the radio module . The voice service manager may query the radio module e.g. via the radio manager to retrieve a list of available voice service platforms within transmission range of the radios implemented for the radio module . For instance assume the radio module includes a cellular radio an EVDO radio and a WiFi radio . The voice service manager may query the radio module for RSSI measurements for each radio . An RSSI is typically a measurement of the power present in a received radio signal in arbitrary units. The RSSI may provide an indication of how much information may be communicated between devices. Typically a lower RSSI implies lower information rates or quality while a higher RSSI implies higher information rates or quality. The RSSI measurements may be made by the radio manager for example. The voice service manager may compare and evaluate the RSSI measurements for each of the radios identify one of the radios or as currently providing a highest quality level and select a voice service platform accessible via the identified radio or .

Another example of a selection rule may comprise selecting a voice service platform based on particular device capabilities for the mobile computing device and or a receiving device e.g. electronic device . For instance the voice service manager may attempt to determine whether the mobile computing device and the receiving device utilize a common radio from the radio module . A common radio may ensure compatibility of communication protocols which reduces a number of intermediate nodes needed to complete a call connection e.g. access points gateways protocol converters etc. thereby decreasing latency and increasing quality. A common radio may also ensure a match in connection quality and speeds. In another example the voice service manager may attempt to determine whether the mobile computing device and the receiving device utilize a same or similar voice coder decoder codec modulation and coding scheme MCS or any other communication parameters affecting operations for a radio implemented by the mobile computing device and the receiving device.

Another example of a selection rule may comprise selecting a voice service platform based on a particular set of voice services or attributes implemented for the mobile computing device and or a receiving device e.g. electronic device . For instance the voice service manager may attempt to determine whether the mobile computing device and the receiving device utilize a common voice service platform . A common voice service platform may reduce a number of intermediate nodes needed to complete a call connection e.g. access points gateways protocol converters etc. thereby decreasing latency and increasing quality. A common voice service platform may also ensure common service features are available to both the mobile computing device and the receiving device e.g. an electronic device . In those cases where a common voice service platform is not available the voice service manager may compare voice service features available between non common voice service platforms and select a voice service platform for each of the mobile computing device and the receiving device e.g. an electronic device providing a highest matching set of features or matched priority features.

Other examples for selection rules may include selecting a voice service platform based on lowest cost factoring in a region for a called party e.g. local long distance or international selecting a voice service platform based on a current or future location for the mobile computing device e.g. using a global positioning satellite GPS triangulation or other location technique and selecting a voice service platform based on a set of user preferences or attributes manually set by a user. For instance a user may prefer to always use a lowest cost provider a most reliable provider a highest QoS provider and so forth. It may be appreciated that these are merely a few examples of selection rules and communication parameters and any number of selection rules and communication parameters may be implemented as desired for a given set of voice service platforms 

Once the voice service manager selects a particular voice service platform the voice service manager may send a control directive to the phone application and or the radio module to establish a voice or data connection over a wireless communications channel using the selected voice service platform and follows conventional set up and tear down operations for establishing the voice or data connection.

In various embodiments the voice service manager may establish a voice or data connection over a wireless communications channel using the selected voice service platform using a corresponding software application associated with a selected voice service platform . In some cases a given voice service platform may need a separate software application or widget to launch the corresponding voice service platform . In such cases the voice service manager may be arranged to launch the corresponding software application which in turn will prompt a user to manually enter login information and or security credentials to access the voice service platform . This provides a benefit of compatibility with legacy devices and voice service platforms at a cost of manual operations required by a user.

In various embodiments the voice service manager may establish a voice or data connection over a wireless communications channel using the selected voice service platform using a corresponding application program interface API associated with a selected voice service platform . In this case an API may be called by the voice service manager to access a selected voice service platform and the voice service manager may automatically pass login information and or security credentials for a user to the selected voice service platform . This provides a benefit of automation e.g. reduced or eliminated user intervention at a cost of implementing the APIs with legacy devices.

Similar to a user dialing a contact or a phone number from an addressing widget for the phone application a user can also directly dial a VOP contact identifier e.g. user name for a VOP voice service platform . For example a GUI view illustrates a user entering the characters tre into an input device with the characters displayed by a display object . A display object displays the numerical equivalents to the letters tre as . A display object displays a VOP contact identifier tre having a SKYPE display object .

The GUI view illustrates that a user can also dial Voicemail to access any voicemail service features for available voice service platforms . In the illustrated embodiment shown in the GUI view a display object displays a label Voicemail which has an associated display object displaying 408 555 1012. The telephone number 408 555 1012 is a telephone number for accessing SKYPE VOICEMAIL as indicated by a display object as well as a display object having the label SKYPE. In the case of multiple VOP voice service platforms implemented by the mobile computing device additional display objects may be used for displaying access numbers for voicemail service features for each of the implemented VOP voice service platforms . An access number for a particular voicemail service feature of a given VOP voice service platform may be optionally programmed into a set voicemail button a call list button or a speed dial number. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As with other aspects of the phone application preferences for the various voice service features for a VOP voice service platform may be set via the user interface . For instance the GUI views illustrate display objects for setting preferences for the Skype VOP voice service platform including international dialing contact identifiers and United States dialing prefixes among other preferences. The GUI view illustrates display objects displaying preference options for Always Ask Carrier and Skype with a display object illustrating an icon for a check mark indicating a specific carrier number is a default for international calls.

The GUI view illustrates a use scenario when a user initiates an international call. The GUI view illustrates a scenario where the user taps to dial an international call and prior to dialing prompts the user to select which voice service platform to use via display objects and showing respective labels Carrier 510 987 6543 Skype jkodama and Cancel. When a user selects the display object to make an international call to Patricia Campanella a display object displays a label for Skype during the call to indicate the carrier for the international call.

The GUI view illustrates a use scenario for a user to manage credit balances associated with a given VOP voice service platform such as the VOP voice service platform . The GUI view illustrates a dial pad for the phone application with menu items associated with various settings for the phone application . When a user selects a display object labeled Preferences Accounts the GUI view appears with various display objects and associated labels including a groupbox display object with a label Accounts. Whenever a Skype account has been created the groupbox display object shows a display object for the VOP voice service platform . The display object shows an icon for Skype a label Skype and a Skype contact identifier e.g. an email address and or user name . Tapping on the display object opens an accounts page as illustrated in .

The GUI view represents an account page for a Skype account associated with the voice service feature of the VOP voice service platform . The GUI view illustrates a display object indicating a SKYPE CREDIT and a display object indicating an amount of 11.32 which is labeled BALANCE by a display object . The GUI view also illustrates a display object with a label Add Credit to provide a user a capability of adding credit to the VOP voice service platform . Other display objects labeled respectively Sign In and Remove Account may be used to edit login settings or remove the account from this screen. Tapping the display object to Add Credit will launch a Skype browser page that will allow the user to add credit to his her account.

The GUI views indicate a no credit or low credit scenario for the user. For instance the GUI view shows a display object indicating No Skype Credit and Tap to add credit. The GUI view shows a display object indicating Skype Credit Running Low and Tap to add credit. Such banner and dashboard notifications appear when Skype credit is running low or has run out. These notifications may be limited such as displaying only once per power cycle for example.

In addition to the voice service manager and or the user interface providing various GUI views integrating voice service management features with the phone application the voice service manager and or the user interface may provide various GUI views integrating voice service management features with the contact application .

The GUI view illustrates examples of integrating various service features for a VOP voice service platform into a unified contact record. The GUI view illustrates various display objects for contact information contact identifiers and any other information suitable for a contact record for a given contact such as Patricia Campanella for example. Contact information for any of the service features of the voice service platforms particularly for VOP services may be incorporated into a contact record similar to other contact identifiers e.g. a cellular carrier . Examples of contact information for VOP voice services may include without limitation user data such as login information and security credentials for online VOP services. Other examples may include VOP service providers presence information context information pictures and so forth. Such contact information may be added or integrated for a contact record of a given contact in a manner similar to other traditional types of contact information e.g. work telephone number mobile telephone number address etc. . Fields for a given service feature of a given VOP voice service platform may be added to an existing contact record as needed.

As shown the GUI view includes display objects for a contact identifier 415 592 0892 and label WORK display objects for a contact identifier 510 123 4578 and label MOBILE and display objects for a contact identifier pcampanella and label SKYPE. The GUI view also illustrates various display objects for contact identifiers associated with certain voice service platforms and presence indicators for each of the voice service platforms . As shown the GUI view includes display objects for a contact identifier patricia.campanella and an IM service feature for a voice service platform labeled AIM and display objects for a contact identifier pcampanella and an IM service feature for the VOP voice service platform labeled SKYPE. The GUI view also includes display objects with presence icons that change color or shape to indicate whether Patricia Campanella is online or offline for each of the voice service platforms .

The GUI view includes information similar to display objects of the GUI view . In addition the GUI view includes different views of VOP voice service platforms available for Patricia Campanella including display objects with contact identifiers photos and logos for Google Voice and Skype.

The GUI view provides another example that contact information for various service features for any VOP voice service platforms can be readily integrated with conventional contact information. For instance when a user types Patricia Campanella into an input device contact identifiers for any VOP voice service platforms are listed as conventional contact identifiers.

The GUI view provides an example of adding a contact record with VOP contact information from within the contact application . As with contact information from the carrier voice service platform contact information for the VOP voice service platform may be added in a similar manner. For instance a user may tap a New Contact command menu button and then select Skype from the list of account types.

The GUI views and provide examples of using an address widget to search for contact records including VOP contact information from a VOP directory e.g. Skype directory within the contact application . In some cases the VOP contact information in the VOP directory may be retrieved from a remote device such as web server for example. The GUI view shows a home view for the contact application with a display object for entering a contact identifier e.g. name identifier email address etc. for a universal search. The GUI view shows a display object where a first name Jane has been entered by an input device for the mobile computing device . A user then taps the search to execute. The GUI view shows results for the search including display objects with two contact identifiers Jane Doe and Jane Eyre for the VOP voice service platform that match the first name Jane. Tapping one of the display objects will show that person s contact information. The GUI view shows display objects with two contact identifiers 415 592 0892 and pcampanella the latter comprising a VOP contact identifier.

In various embodiments the voice service manager and the phone application and or the contact application may interoperate to manage access and use of any of the voice service platforms and associated service features . In one embodiment the voice service manager may receive one or both control directives to initiate voicemail service features provided by one of the multiple voice service platforms . The control directives may contain a unique contact identifier or a shared contact identifier.

In the case of a unique contact identifier the voice service manager selects the voicemail service feature indicated by the unique contact identifier. For instance the voice service manager may receive the control directive from the contact application with a unique contact identifier for a specific voicemail service feature for the VOP voice service platform e.g. Skype Voicemail . In this case the voice service manager selects the voicemail service feature for the VOP voice service platform and connects with the specific voicemail system provided by the VOP voice service platform .

In the case of a shared contact identifier the voice service manager may select a voicemail service feature from one or more of the multiple voice service platforms . For instance assume that a user wants to check all voicemail service features for all voice service platforms using a single command. The voice service manager may receive the control directive from the contact application with a shared contact identifier for two or more voicemail service features corresponding to two or more voice service platforms . In this case a voicemail service selection algorithm similar to the voice service selection algorithm may be executed by the voice service manager .

Upon execution of the voicemail service selection algorithm the voice service manager may first discover and identify any contact identifiers associated with the shared contact identifier. This may be accomplished using the addressing widget. The voice service manager may then select one or more of voicemail service features of the voice service platforms corresponding to the discovered contact identifiers in accordance with one or more communication parameters and selection rules. Similar to the voice service selection rules the voicemail selection rules may comprise logic for selecting a voicemail service feature of a corresponding voice service platform based on one or more communication parameters. For instance the communication parameter may be some measure of network connectivity such as RSSI measurements from the radio manager of the radio module .

Once selected the voice service manager may then attempt to automatically establish a voicemail communication session with another device e.g. with or through a wireless resource over a wireless communications channel for each of the selected voicemail service features of the voice service platforms . The voice service manager may accomplish this by automatically providing login information and security credentials needed for each voicemail service feature of the voice service platforms in accordance with corresponding login and authentication operations. Each voicemail service feature may be accessed in sequence or in parallel. The latter case may be based on a given voice service platform available radios of the radio module radio co existence factors power requirements and other operational parameters for the mobile computing device .

For each of the selected voicemail service features of the voice service platforms a user may retrieve and manage voicemails for the selected voicemail service feature per conventional techniques. For example a user may retrieve voicemail messages listen to each voicemail message in temporal sequence skip voicemail messages store voicemail messages forward voicemail messages delete voicemail messages and so forth.

Additionally or alternatively the voice service manager may automatically retrieve and store voicemails from the VOP voice service platform on the mobile computing device . For instance this may be accomplished using the message application . In some cases the voicemails may be stored in a native audio format. In such cases the voicemails may be presented by as visual voicemail. Visual voicemail is the technique of adding a visual aspect to phone voicemail such as allowing users to view a list of audio voicemail entries or even read transcripts of these voicemail as text. These voicemails are converted to text by use of advanced speech recognition software or SST system such as Dragon powered by Nuance Communications Inc. Burlington Mass. When voicemail messages may be converted from audio files to another form of media such as text sequences generated by a STT system the text versions of the converted voicemail messages may be managed by the message application as any other text message such as an email message IM message SMS message MMS message and so forth.

When voicemail messages arrive from a given voice service platform the voice service manager translates a list of available voicemail parameters to those supported by the mobile computing device or as determined by an operating system user parameters default parameters or the user interface . Examples of voicemail parameters may include without limitation extra data associated with voice mail messages recording parameters transcription parameters priority parameters presentation or style parameters size of file attachments and so forth. Examples of extra data associated with voice mail messages may include contact name phone number recordings transcriptions priorities callback number file attachments and so forth. In one embodiment the voice service manager may translate voicemail parameters to a desired user interface presentation style as determined by an operating system user parameters default parameters or the user interface . For example if a particular voice service platform provides 5 levels of priority but the user interface only supports 3 levels of priority presentation of priority levels will be translated to those supported by the mobile computing device . It may be appreciated that any number of voicemail parameters and translation techniques may be used as desired for a given implementation and the embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the voice service manager may be operative to receive a control directive to initiate message service features associated with one of the multiple voice service platforms select a message service feature associated with one of the multiple voice service platforms and establish a message session for the selected message service . This may be accomplished using one or more GUIs provided by the user interface via one or more control directives examples of which are provided in .

The GUI view provides an example of a display object labeled Conversations for listing conversations and a display object labeled Buddies for listing friends or contacts. As shown the GUI view illustrates activation of the display object to provide a buddy list including display objects and having respective labels Patricia Campanella Mike Woods and Jane Doe. A display object labeled New Msg can be activated to begin communicating messages with a receiving device using one of the available message modalities or transports provided by the message application .

Further the GUI view may include presence information using display objects and . In computer and telecommunications networks presence information is a status indicator that conveys ability and willingness of a potential communication partner such as a user to communicate. A user s client provides presence information presence state via a network connection to a presence service which is stored in what constitutes a personal availability record called a presentity and can be made available for distribution to other users called watchers to convey his her availability for communication. Presence information has wide application in many communication services and is one of the innovations driving the popularity of instant messaging or recent implementations of VOP clients. For instance when display objects and or are green then a user of the mobile computing device is available to communicate. When orange the user may be unavailable.

The GUI views allow a user to change presence information for a user of the mobile computing device . As shown by the GUI view tapping a presence button may bring up various options shown by a display object . Tapping one of the displayed options will change one or more message transports to a desired presence state.

The GUI views allow a user to create and edit custom messages associated with a current presence state e.g. Working on a paper . The GUI views may comprise display objects similar to the GUI view . A custom message for a user of the mobile computing device may be changed by tapping the text area next to a presence icon provided by a display object . The text area turns into a text field into which the user can type information. Once the custom message is finished the custom message appears in place of the previous text as indicated by a display object shown by the GUI view . Tapping the text area may also bring up other presence information options such as adding location information or time information to displayed presence information among other types of information as shown by a display object of the GUI view .

The GUI view provides an example of a display object labeled Conversations for listing conversations and a display object labeled Buddies for listing friends or contacts. As shown the GUI view illustrates activation of the display object to provide a conversation list including display objects and having respective labels Patricia Campanella Patricia Mike Jane and Taylor Williams. The conversation list shows both group conversations and single person conversations. Further the GUI view may include presence information using display objects and each including a status indicator and custom message that conveys ability and willingness of a potential communication partner such as a user to communicate. A display object labeled New Msg can be activated to begin communicating messages with a receiving device using one of the available message modalities or transports provided by the message application .

The GUI view provides an example of display objects which can be used to start a single or group chat. A user can start a chat with a single person by typing contact information into a text box of the display object and selecting a person from a list of contacts provided by the address widget. A user can start a chat with multiple individuals by adding additional recipients. When using a same voice service platform adding buddies to the group chat may be accomplished using the address widget and a compose view. When using a different voice service platform adding buddies to the group chat may be accomplished using the address widget and a compose view or separate views.

The GUI view shows an example of a group chat. A display object provides a header indicating parties in the group chat and a VOP voice service platform labeled SKYPE. If all the names do not fit that may be truncated. Tapping the display object shows the GUI view .

The GUI view shows an example of display objects indicating parties in a group chat. As shown the GUI view includes display objects having respective contact information Patricia Campanella and Mike Woods. Tapping any of the display objects opens a contact record associated with the contact information shown by the display objects .

The GUI view shows an example of a display object for a chat view application menu. The chat view application menu while in a chat should be global across all transports. Tapping a display object labeled Invite Buddy To This Chat from the chat view application menu will show a picker similar to a contact picker showing all of the user s buddies. Tapping a display object labeled Leave Chat should bring the user back to the conversations view. The chat should not be deleted from the list but the user should stop receiving messages. Tapping the conversation again would allow the user to enter the chat.

The GUI view shows an example of a display object indicating that someone has joined the group chat. As shown the display object may display a system message Jane Doe has joined the chat and add that person in the display object displaying the header.

The GUI view shows an example of a display object with an options menu to add a buddy when the buddy tab is activated. As shown the options menu may include Add Buddy Show Offline Buddies Preferences Accounts and Help. 

The GUI view shows an example of a display object that appears when the Add Buddy menu option is tapped. A dialog box allows the user to add a buddy to any of the services that has a user name or other login credentials. The default value is the message service feature that comes first in alphabetical order. There is also a text field that allows the user to enter the buddy name. The Done button should be disabled until a buddy name has been typed into the text field. Once this occurs the Done button is enabled and when tapped the buddy should be added to the contacts database and sent through the appropriate synergy operations to link to existing contact records for the contact application .

Various GUIs may be used to set up and modify accounts associated with the service features provided by the voice service platforms . This may be accomplished using one or more GUIs provided by the user interface via one or more control directives examples of which are provided in .

The GUI views illustrate a first launch GUI with a display object labeled Add An Account which may be used to add a service feature provided by a voice service platform from one or more of the application programs . The first launch GUI provides a mechanism for each voice service platform to register itself and enumerate its attributes. Examples of attributes may include its name regions to which calls can be placed cost of placing a call networks one which service features are available number of conference call participants extra data associated with voice mail messages and so forth. Examples of extra data associated with voice mail messages may include contact name phone number recording transcription priority callback number file attachments and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown the phone application has a first launch scene with an explicit account set up page when the phone application is first launched. Additionally or alternatively the contact application and or the message application may have a first launch scene with an explicit account set up page when the corresponding application is first launched. When a VOP voice service platform is set up and a display object labeled Done is activated corresponding accounts are automatically set up for the phone application the contact application and the message application . The new contact information may be displayed by a display object as shown by the GUI view .

New accounts for one or more service features provided by one or more voice service platforms may be set up from any of the application programs . For instance the GUI views illustrate setting up a new VOP voice service platform for Google Voice from the phone application . Setting up an account for one of the application programs automatically sets up accounts for the other application programs which in this case would include the contact application and the message application .

The GUI view provides an example of adding security credentials for a VOP voice service platform . As shown a display object provides a text field for adding a user name and a display object provides a text field for adding a password. Initial sign in may be accomplished using a display object labeled Sign In. In one embodiment sign in operations are launched manually during account set up but are automatic for subsequent operations.

The GUI views illustrate a first launch GUI with a display object labeled Add An Account which may be used to add a service feature provided by a voice service platform from one or more of the application programs . As shown the contact application may have a first launch scene with an explicit account set up page when the contact application is first launched. When a VOP voice service platform is set up and a display object labeled Done is activated corresponding accounts are automatically set up for the phone application and the message application . The new contact information may be displayed by a display object as shown by the GUI view .

Similar to the GUI view new accounts for one or more service features provided by one or more voice service platforms may be set up from any of the application programs . For instance the GUI views illustrate setting up a new VOP voice service platform for Skype from the contact application . Setting up an account for one of the application programs automatically sets up accounts for the other application programs which in this case would include the phone application and the message application .

The GUI view provides an example of adding security credentials for a VOP voice service platform . As shown a display object provides a text field for adding a user name and a display object provides a text field for adding a password. Initial sign in may be accomplished using a display object labeled Sign In. In one embodiment sign in operations are launched manually during account set up but are automatic for subsequent operations.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow and or a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic flow and or logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic flow and or logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic flow and or logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic flow and or logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element e.g. a logic device a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the the logic flow may receive control directives from one or more application programs at block . In one embodiment for example the voice service manager may receive control directives from one or more application programs . The application programs may also receive control directives from each other or another component of the mobile computing device . Additionally or alternatively the voice service manager may receive user control directives directly from a user via the user interface . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The logic flow may manage one or more service features of multiple voice service platforms for a mobile computing device based on the received control directives with at least one of the multiple voice service platforms comprising a voice over packet voice service platform at block . In one embodiment for example the voice service manager may manage one or more service features provided by multiple voice service platforms for the mobile computing device based on the received control directives with at least one of the multiple voice service platforms comprising a VOP voice service platform . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors or number of processor cores in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display . The keypad may also comprise a thumbboard.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive or touch screen color e.g. 216 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive or touch screen LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrating motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrating motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrating motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port SDIO bus PCI USB an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability global position system GPS capability and or integrated 802.11x e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11a 802.11n etc. WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply. The power supply may be representative of a power supply for the power module described with reference to for example.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. The radio processor may be representative of a radio processor for the radio module described with reference to for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or radios such as wireless transceivers of mobile computing device arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas such as antenna of mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm WebOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation message applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Message applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of message applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an email application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include the voice service manager and the application program in some embodiments as described with reference to for example.

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more message applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more message applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

