---

title: Content placeholder markers
abstract: Content placeholder markers may be provided. A request to insert a placeholder marker may be received during output of a content asset to a device. If memory storage is available to record the content asset, the asset may be recorded. Otherwise, the placeholder marker may be stored and/or used to resume playback of the content asset from another source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08381253&OS=08381253&RS=08381253
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08381253
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
Content placeholder markers are an electronically implemented process for storing a time location within a content stream. In some situations users may wish to mark a particular time point within a content stream such as a television broadcast. In conventional systems this mark may comprise a pause request resulting in a recording device beginning to record the content stream beginning from the time the user issued the request. This may be impossible if the device being used to process the content stream such as a cable box does not have a memory storage for recording the stream or is not configured to record the content stream.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for inserting content placeholder markers. A request to insert a placeholder marker may be received during output of a content asset to a device. If memory storage is available to record the content asset the asset may be recorded. Otherwise the placeholder marker may be stored and or used to resume playback of the content asset from another source.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the invention s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for a method of providing content placeholder markers. Placeholder markers may allow the replication of a content recorders memory buffer on a non recording capable device such as a set top box. It may also be used to store placeholder markers associated with content for future access such as for On Demand type content. Placeholder markers may allow a user to access a digital video recorder DVR feature of being able to pause live TV and may allow users to insert placeholder markers in live video for future access to on demand content. The DVR buffer may be extended into a device such as a set top box without the need to utilize a tuner or hard drive located on a DVR. Placeholder markers may also be used trigger the automated recording of DVR assets.

Content placeholder markers may be available to be placed automatically or manually by a customer s action. This feature may insert a pause marker set in a future on demand asset or in a currently available on demand asset. Some content providers may provide access to an on demand version of a content asset immediately and or shortly after a live version of the content asset begins transmission. For example a new episode of a television program may be available in an on demand asset version a few minutes after the episode begins to air and or shortly after the episode concludes. An example of such a service may comprise the MYPRIMETIME On Demand service offered by COX COMMUNICATIONS INC. of Atlanta Ga. Content placeholder markers may also be used for time shifted dynamic ad replacement and ad overlays during playback of the content from local storage on non DVR set top boxes or from an on demand asset. For example resumption of playback of a content asset may be overlaid with a sponsorship message such as This playback experience brought to you by . 

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention content placeholder markers may be provided. The introduction and development of these placeholder markers may grant users additional flexibility in viewing content such as audio streams and or television programs. The placeholder markers may grant non DVR users the ability to time shift live television and may remove the dependency of a DVR hard drive for pausing fast forwarding and rewinding live TV. The placeholder markers may also enable the ability for users who have a local DVR to pause live content without a hard drive DVR buffer e.g. at a non DVR set top box or without needing to use the host DVR s hard drive.

Users may access the placeholder markers through selection of an identified key on a remote control. An onscreen application may indicate how much time has elapsed since the creation of the placeholder marker and how much time is left as eligible space to be paused if using local storage. The determination on length of available pause may depend on whether the customer has paused standard definition SD or high definition HD content. Should a user pause a content stream and run out of space a recording may be set up on a DVR such as a user s DVR in another room. The user of the set top box may be notified that a recording has been established and the user may be able to start the recording from the beginning of the content asset and or the original placeholder request via an onscreen application. If the content is available as an on demand asset a placeholder indicator may be associated with the on demand asset at a time point where the customer has created the placeholder marker. Should the user resume playback of the asset and pause again the last placeholder marker may remain indicated in the on demand asset. The user may be able to access the on demand asset beginning from the placeholder marker without the need to start at the beginning of the asset.

Content source may comprise for example an outside content provider sources such as a satellite link to a television broadcast network and or prepared content recordings such as video on demand content. On demand content platform may be operative to index available on demand content assets and process requests from first user premises and or second user premises for on demand content. Transport network may comprise a content provider s internal network such as a local area network LAN . Billing platform may be operative to store information associated with customers of content provider such as payment and provisioning information. Access network may comprise a private network such as a cable television distribution network e.g. a hybrid fiber coax network or a cellular data network and or a public network such as a metropolitan WiMAX network and or the Internet. STB second STB and or DVR may be operative to request content and receive and decode the associated content stream from content provider .

Computing device may be implemented using a personal computer a network computer a mainframe or other similar microcomputer based workstation. The processor may comprise any computer operating environment such as hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable sender electronic devices minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The processor may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices. Furthermore the processor may comprise a mobile terminal such as a smart phone a cellular telephone a cellular telephone utilizing wireless application protocol WAP personal digital assistant PDA intelligent pager portable computer a hand held computer a conventional telephone a wireless fidelity Wi Fi access point or a facsimile machine. The aforementioned systems and devices are examples and the processor may comprise other systems or devices.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may create a placeholder marker. For example STB may receive a user request via a remote control device to pause output of the content stream. In response STB may create a placeholder marker associating the user with the content stream and identifying a time within the content stream at which the pause request was received. This content placeholder marker may be stored on a local memory storage of STB relayed to another device within first user premises such as DVR and or transmitted to content provider for storage such as on billing platform and or on demand content platform .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether local storage is available for recording the content stream. For example STB may be coupled to an internal and or external hard drive a USB key drive and or an internal and or external flash memory storage device. If so method may advance to stage where computing device may record the content stream to the local storage beginning from the time at which the content placeholder marker creation request was received. Consistent with embodiments of the invention if prior portions of the content stream were buffered in memory the prior portions may also be included in the recording.

If no local storage is determined to be available at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether any remote storage is available. For example STB may determine whether another recording device such as DVR is locally coupled i.e. within first user premises . Consistent with embodiments of the invention content provider may offer user associated storage space located outside of first user premises such as at a facility e.g. a headend associated with distributing content. This storage may be considered by computing device when determining whether any remote storage is available. If remote storage is determined to be available method may advance to stage and record the content to the remote storage as similarly described above.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may notify a user that the content is available for viewing. For example STB may display an indication on display device A during and or after recording of the content stream that the content has been recorded and is available for playback. The displayed indication may comprise for example a time when the content may become available if the content is not currently available for viewing.

If the user requests playback of the content method may advance to stage where computing device may play the content stream. For example STB may resume playback of the content stream beginning from the earliest recorded point and or from the time when the request to create the placeholder marker was received. After completion of playback method may then end at stage .

If at stage computing device determines that no remote storage is available method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the content is available as an on demand asset. For example STB may query content provider to determine whether on demand content platform has the content available as an on demand asset and or is scheduled to have the content available as an on demand asset. In some embodiments a first run content stream may not be made available until after completion of the first run broadcast. Content provider may treat this situation as having the content asset scheduled for availability as an on demand asset.

Video on Demand VOD or Audio Video on Demand AVOD are systems that may allow users to select and watch listen to video or audio content on demand. Television VOD systems may stream content through a set top box e.g. STB allowing viewing in real time and or download it to a device such as computing device DVR and or a portable media player for viewing at any time. Cable and telco based television providers e.g. content provider may offer both VOD streaming such as pay per view whereby a user buys or selects a movie or television program and it begins to play on the television set almost instantaneously and or downloading to a DVR rented from the provider for viewing in the future. Download and streaming video on demand systems may provide the user with a large subset of VCR functionality including pause fast forward fast rewind slow forward slow rewind jump to previous future frame etc.

If at stage computing device determines that the content is and or will be available as an on demand asset method may advance to stage where computing device may associate the placeholder marker with the on demand content asset. For example STB may store the placeholder marker on a local storage on storage associated with DVR and or on storage provided by content provider . The placeholder marker may include an identifier of the on demand content asset that may be used to request the on demand asset from content provider at stage and or stage for requesting and or retrieving the on demand asset for playback at stage . Method may end at stage after completing playback of the on demand asset at stage .

If computing device determines that the content is not available as an on demand asset at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may store the placeholder marker for later use. For example STB may store the placeholder marker on a local storage on storage associated with DVR and or on storage provided by content provider . Consistent with embodiments of the invention the placeholder maker may be associated with an account and may be accessed from other display devices. For example a user may create a placeholder marker while viewing the content on display device A and may user the placeholder marker to resume viewing the content on display device B .

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may periodically determine whether the placeholder marker has been deleted. For example a user may delete the placeholder marker from an on screen list using a remote control associated with STB . Consistent with embodiments of the invention placeholder markers may be configured to expire and be deleted by computing device after a certain length of time e.g. 30 60 and or 90 days . If the placeholder marker is determined not to have been deleted method may return to stage and determine whether the content has become available as an on demand asset. Otherwise method may end at stage .

CATV system may comprise a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across access network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via head end and a client side customer via client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as television set . CATV systems may provide a variety of services across access network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data may be provided to television set via set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to CATV system may likewise be provided by STB . As illustrated in STB may comprise a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism may receive input from server side processes via access network and from customers via input devices such as a remote control device and a keyboard . Remote control device and keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . STB may also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner may be provided for processing video and data to and from STB and head end .

STB may also include an operating system for directing the functions of STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications. For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on television operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of STB for example to output the news flash to television at the direction of client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client application and operating system that allow client application to communicate with operating system through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer may be included on the server side of CATV system for facilitating communication between server side application server and client side STB . A middleware layer of server side application server and middleware layer of client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example of data formatting data passed between the client side and the server side may be formatted according to any other suitable formatting language or standard.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . STB may pass digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via communication transport . According to an embodiment bidirectional communication may be accomplished between the STB and the television . For example high definition multimedia interface HDMI ports on the STB and television allow for bidirectional data communications between the devices. STB may receive video and data from the server side of CATV system via access network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. STB may transmit data from the client side of CATV system to the server side of CATV system via access network via one data uplink. The video data downlink may comprise an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of CATV system through access network to set top box for use by STB and for distribution to television set . The in band signaling space may operate at a variety of frequencies. According to one embodiment the in band signaling space may operate at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 1000 megahertz may be divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between access network and set top box may comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between client side set top box and server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from server side application server through access network to client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Data passed between CATV system backend components such as head end and CATV system front end components such as STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over access network .

Referring still to head end of the CATV system may be positioned on the server side of CATV system and may include hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through access network to client side STB for presentation to customers via television . As described above a number of services may be provided by CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

Application server may comprise a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from client side set top box via access network . As described above with reference to set top box application server may comprise middleware layer for processing and preparing data from head end of CATV system for receipt and use by client side set top box . For example application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from one and or more of a plurality of third party services via network for transmitting to a customer through access network and set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by application server via network . When application server receives the downloaded weather report middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by set top box . Data obtained and managed by middleware layer of application server may be formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and may be passed to set top box through access network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by client application in concert with middleware layer as described above. A variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by application server via distributed computing environments such as network for provision to customers via access network and set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server may obtain customer profile data from services provider data services which may comprise an implementation of profile server for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

A plurality of provider data services may include a number of services operated by the services provider of CATV system that may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between application server and data services . Web services system may serve as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . When application server requires customer profile data from one or more of data services for preparation or update of a customer profile application server passes a data query to web services system . Web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. Web services system may serve as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and application server . That is application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. Web services system may be operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to application server for ultimate processing via middleware layer as described above.

An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a content placeholder. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to output a content asset to an output device receive a user request to insert at least one content placeholder marker determine whether a memory storage is available to record the content asset and if so record the content asset. If the memory storage is not available the processing unit may be operative to store the content placeholder on a local storage and or on a memory storage associated with another system. For example the content placeholder may be stored on billing platform . The content asset may comprise for example an audio asset output to a speaker and or a video asset output to a display device. The content asset may be a first run content stream e.g. a new episode of a television series or a pre recorded asset such as an on demand movie. The content placeholder may comprise a user identifier an asset identifier associated with the content asset and a time associated with a time within the outputting of the content asset at which the user request was received e.g. when the user paused the output of the content asset . Recording of the asset may begin at the time the request to create the placeholder was received and or begin at the beginning of the content asset.

If the memory storage is not available to record the content asset the processing unit may be operative to determine whether the content asset is available as an on demand asset from the content provider and if so request the on demand asset from the content provider. The processing unit may be operative to output the on demand asset beginning from the time at which the request to pause output of the content asset was received and or the beginning of the on demand asset.

Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for creating a content placeholder marker. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to display a video content stream on a display device receive a request from a user to create a placeholder marker associated with a time within the video content stream and determine whether a memory storage is available for recording the video content stream. If so the processing unit may be operative to record the video content stream to the memory storage. Otherwise the processing unit may determine whether the video content stream is available as an on demand asset and if so create a stored placeholder marker associated with the user and the on demand asset. The processing unit may be further operative to display a notification to the user that the video content stream is available as the on demand asset receive a request from the user to begin displaying the video content stream and display the video content stream on the display device beginning from the stored placeholder marker.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a content placeholder. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to display a video content stream on a display device insert a placeholder mark in the video content stream determine whether the memory storage comprises a sufficient amount of free space to record the video content stream and if so record the video content stream. Otherwise the processing unit may be further operative to determine whether a recording device is locally coupled to the system and instruct the recording device to record the video content stream. If no recording device is locally coupled to the system the processing unit may determine whether a provider of the video content stream offers the video content stream in an on demand format and transmit the placeholder marker to the content provider for associated with the video content stream in the on demand format. The processing unit may be operative to insert the placeholder marker in response to receiving a pause request from a user and or in response to detecting that the display device is no longer displaying the video content e.g. the user has changed channels changed video sources and or turned off the display device . The processing unit may be further operative to display a notification to the user that the video content stream is available in the on demand format receive a request from the user to resume display of the video content stream request the video content stream from the provider in the on demand format retrieve the placeholder marker transmitted to the provider and associated with the video content stream and display the video content stream on the display device beginning from the placeholder marker. The processing unit may also be operative to in response to determining that the provider of the video content stream does not offer the video content stream in the on demand format store the placeholder marker in the memory storage and periodically determine whether the video content stream has become available from the provider in the on demand format.

As described herein methods and systems are provided for creating and storing content placeholders used to record and retrieve content streams. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

