---

title: Flow-based enhancement of specificity for label-free biochemical assays
abstract: A label-free biochemical assay, in which label-free interrogation of a target-receptor layer is performed while the target-receptor layer is subjected to a relatively strong flow of an analyte-containing fluid. The volumetric flow rate for the assay is selected based on calibration data corresponding to the target substance, which advantageously results in fewer and/or smaller false-positive signals corresponding to non-target substances compared to those produced with the fluid being stationary. In various embodiments, the label-free interrogation method can be electro-mechanical and/or optical.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599612&OS=09599612&RS=09599612
owner: Drexel University
number: 09599612
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 155 560 filed Feb. 26 2009 and entitled Label Free Flow Enhanced Specific Detection of Using a Piezoelectric Microcantilever Sensor which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to bio analytical systems and more specifically but not exclusively to flow based enhancement of specificity for label free biochemical assays.

This section introduces aspects that may help facilitate a better understanding of the invention s . Accordingly the statements of this section are to be read in this light and are not to be understood as admissions about what is in the prior art or what is not in the prior art.

An assay is a procedure in molecular biology that is used to test for and or measure the activity of a drug or a biochemical in an organism or a biological sample. Various types of biochemical assays such as immunoassays DNA hybridization assays and receptor based assays are widely used to detect trace quantities of specific target substances contained in the sample. For example an immunoassay uses specific binding of an antibody to its antigen to measure the concentration of a target substance in a biological liquid. Either the antigen or the antibody can serve as the target substance. Other types of assays similarly use other types of specific binding.

A representative biochemical assay employs a solid substrate whose surface is coated with receptors having a relatively high specific binding affinity to a desired target substance. When a liquid sample containing the target substance is applied to the surface the high specific binding affinity causes the receptors to capture the target substance. A common approach to detecting the captured target substance is to chemically attach to it a label that can be used to generate an observable signal. For example a label can include a radioactive isotope an enzyme a fluorescent molecule and or a magnetic particle. The label can be attached to the captured target substance using any suitable means such as covalent or electrostatic bonding and high affinity molecular recognition of an exposed part of the target substance. The attached label is then detected using an appropriate detection means corresponding to the type of the label thereby providing a measure of the concentration of the target substance in the sample.

One problem with biochemical assays in general is the presence of false positive signals. For example in the above described label based biochemical assays false positives might originate from non specific binding of labels to the surface of the solid substrate. Further complications arise when the sample contains several similar or related substances with the target substance being only one of them. Due to the similarity to the target substance the related non target substances might bind non or semi specifically to the target receptors and then similarly bind the labels thereby causing a corresponding false positive signal.

Disclosed herein are various embodiments of a label free biochemical assay in which label free interrogation of a target receptor layer is performed while the target receptor layer is subjected to a relatively strong flow of an analyte containing fluid. The volumetric flow rate for the assay is selected based on calibration data corresponding to the target substance which advantageously results in fewer and or smaller false positive signals corresponding to non target substances compared to those produced with the fluid being stationary. In a representative embodiment the label free interrogation method can be electro mechanical and or optical.

According to one embodiment provided is a method of analyzing an analyte having the step of exposing a target receptor layer to a fluid. The target receptor layer comprises a plurality of target receptors adapted to bind a target substance. The fluid comprises the analyte. The method further has the step of performing label free interrogation of the target receptor layer for a presence of the target substance bound thereto while subjecting the target receptor layer to a flow of the fluid.

According to another embodiment provided is a bio analytical system comprising means for exposing a target receptor layer to an analyte containing fluid. The target receptor layer comprises a plurality of target receptors adapted to bind a target substance. The fluid comprises the analyte. The system further comprises means for performing label free interrogation of the target receptor layer for a presence of the target substance bound thereto while subjecting the target receptor layer to a flow of the analyte containing fluid.

Referring to bio analytical system has an analyte delivery subsystem that has a pump coupled to flow cell and configured to pump an analyte containing fluid through the flow cell. In the embodiment shown in analyte delivery subsystem is depicted as having a closed loop configuration. More specifically an output port of pump is connected via a tube to an input port of flow cell and an input port of the pump is connected via a tube to an output port of the flow cell. This connection between pump and flow cell creates a circulation loop that enables the pump to continuously circulate the same analyte containing fluid through the flow cell. Analyte delivery subsystem might include several valves and or fluid containers not explicitly shown in for filling the circulation loop with a carrier fluid and or injecting an analyte into the circulation loop as known in the art. The closed loop configuration of analyte delivery subsystem shown in might be advantageous for detecting very low concentrations of target substances because sensor is continuously re exposed to the target substance thereby facilitating its more efficient binding to the corresponding target receptors of the sensor.

Alternatively analyte delivery subsystem might have an open loop configuration. An open loop configuration can be produced from the closed loop configuration of e.g. by replacing tube with two tubes. One of these tubes is used to connect input port of pump to a supply container not explicitly shown in while the other tube is used to connect output port of flow cell to a waste container also not explicitly shown in . The open loop configuration of analyte delivery subsystem might be advantageous when a relatively large analyte solution volume is available for analysis because the continuous flow of fresh analyte solution helps to attain and maintain a relatively high fill factor for the target receptor layer of sensor .

Bio analytical system further has a user interface that enables the user to make inputs and retrieve analyze and interpret the measurement results. User interface is operatively coupled to a controller that controls the operation of i pump and ii an impedance analyzer . For example based on user inputs and or a configuration file user interface can send commands to controller thereby causing the controller to i set a selected volumetric flow rate for pump ii configure impedance analyzer to execute a selected measurement routine as might be appropriate for the particular type of sensor deployed in flow cell and iii send back to the user interface a report on the current status of the measurement.

In one embodiment impedance analyzer can be replaced by any suitable electrical unit that has an oscillator and a detector capable of measuring the phase shift between the input and output voltages signals . User interface can be a laptop or desktop computer.

Referring to cantilever sensor is coupled to impedance analyzer via wire leads that enable both electromechanical excitation of the sensor and electrical readout of the sensor s response to the excitation. Cantilever sensor comprises a planar piezoelectric layer attached to a planar non piezoelectric structure . A clamp encapsulates the rear ends of layer and structure as indicated in . One function of clamp is to provide structural support for layer and structure which by themselves might be relatively thin and delicate. Another function of clamp is to protect and insulate the electrical connections between the electrodes attached to piezoelectric layer and wire leads . In the embodiment shown in non piezoelectric structure protrudes past a distal edge of piezoelectric layer . In an alternative embodiment layer and structure might have an equal length so that edge of layer is aligned with the corresponding edge of structure .

Distal end of structure is a thin flexible plate that is coated with a target receptor layer on one or more sides as shown in . Target receptor layer has a plurality of target receptors that are designed to have a relatively high specific binding affinity to a target substance of interest. As used herein the term target receptor refers to a chemical host that can recognize e.g. stereo specifically a corresponding target substance and bind it as a guest via specific bonding and or interactions between their complementary portions. The specific bonding and interactions might include but are not limited to hydrogen bonding metal coordination hydrophobic forces van der Waals forces pi pi interactions and other electrostatic and or electromagnetic interactions. Exemplary target receptor target substance pairs are protein ligand antigen antibody DNA protein sugar lectin RNA ribosome RNA aptamer and protein aptamer. Synthetic supramolecular systems that exhibit molecular recognition can also serve as target receptors.

In various alternative embodiments of cantilever sensor one or more of the following modifications can be made to the structure shown in . Non piezoelectric structure may be completely absent or be shorter than piezoelectric layer . The distal end of cantilever sensor may be encapsulated by an electrical insulating layer and target receptor layer may be deposited over the electrical insulating layer. There may be an intermediate layer such as a chromium gold layer between target receptor layer and the insulating layer. Target receptor layer may be deposited on both piezoelectric layer and non piezoelectric structure .

It is to be noted that the term target receptor should be construed in a broader sense than the term receptor as the latter term is used in conventional biochemistry. More specifically in biochemistry the term receptor usually refers to a protein molecule that is embedded e.g. in a membrane or a cytoplasm of a cell. A molecule that binds to such a receptor is referred to as a ligand and may be a peptide a neurotransmitter a hormone a pharmaceutical drug a toxin or a pathogen. While protein receptors can certainly be adapted for use as target receptors in target receptor layer a target receptor of that layer is not necessarily a protein. Rather as already indicated above any suitable chemical host can be used as a target receptor in target receptor layer .

Various surface functionalization methods can be used to form target receptor layer . For example in one embodiment distal end of structure can be functionalized using immobilization of glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane GOPTS . GOPTS is a bi functional linker that contains a trimethoxysilane group and a glycidoxy epoxide moiety. The trimethoxysilane group readily binds to glass or metallic oxide surfaces while leaving the glycidoxy epoxide moiety available for covalent binding to primary amines of an appropriately selected antibody. In another embodiment distal end of structure can be functionalized by i depositing a layer of a noble metal e.g. gold over structure or an encapsulating insulating layer if present ii treating the deposited metal layer with MPA mercaptopropionic acid to carboxylate its surface and iii covalently binding an appropriately selected antibody to the carboxylic acid group to immobilize the antibody on the carboxylated surface. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other known surface functionalization methods can similarly be used to form target receptor layer .

Layer structure the encapsulating insulating layer if present and layer are parts of a cantilever resonator that can be induced to vibrate by configuring impedance analyzer to apply an appropriate ac drive signal to piezoelectric layer . The geometry and other relevant properties of layer structure the encapsulating insulating layer if present and layer determine the resonance frequencies of the cantilever resonator which can be measured e.g. by sweeping the frequency of the ac drive signal over an appropriate frequency range and measuring the relative phase of the induced mechanical oscillation. Since the bound target substance changes the properties of target receptor layer the binding event manifests itself as a shift of a resonance frequency which is detected by impedance analyzer and quantified and interpreted using user interface . Due to the intrinsically high sensitivity of the resonance frequency to binding induced changes in target receptor layer cantilever sensor does not require the use of labels and is generally operated to implement label free assays. In effect bio analytical system performs label free electromechanical interrogation of target receptor layer for a presence of the corresponding target substance bound thereto.

Suitable cantilever resonators that can be used in various embodiments of cantilever sensor are disclosed e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 458 265 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. A phase shift detector that can be used as impedance analyzer is disclosed e.g. in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0007330 which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Referring to cantilever sensor is positioned with respect to flow cell so that target receptor layer is at least partially submerged in the fluid that flows through the cell from input port to output port . Flow cell might or might not have a cover top wall . If flow cell does not have a cover then precautions are taken to maintain an appropriate fluid level in the cell as indicated in .

In a representative embodiment the dimensions of flow cell i.e. length l depth d and width w are selected so that a laminar flow regime can be implemented. As known in the art laminar flows occur for Reynolds numbers smaller than about 2000. In one embodiment depth d of flow cell is at least as large as width w and pump is configured to provide a flow rate that results in a Reynolds number between about 0.1 and about 100.

A laminar flow typically has a parabolic velocity profile across the flow channel. This means that the flow velocity in flow cell is close to zero near each of sidewalls and near the bottom of the cell. The flow velocity profile has a maximum in the middle portion of flow cell and is characterized by a very small velocity gradient in the transverse direction near the center of the cell. In a representative configuration cantilever sensor is inserted into flow cell so that i the larger facets of structure are parallel to and equidistant from sidewalls and ii the distance between distal end and the bottom of the flow cell is at least d 2. In general it might be advantageous to position cantilever sensor so that target receptor layer is separated from the nearest sidewall by a distance that is at least w 4. It might also be advantageous to position cantilever sensor so that target receptor layer is separated from the cover and or bottom of flow cell by a distance that is at least d 4.

Target receptor layer represents an exemplary embodiment of target receptor layer see and comprises a plurality of target receptors attached to a metal film . Target receptors are designed to recognize and specifically bind a target substance which can be e.g. a protein molecule a pathogen or a toxin. The analyte containing fluid to which target receptor layer is exposed has two substances dissolved or suspended in it. One of these substances is target substance . The other substance is a non target substance that can interfere with the detection of target substance by semi specifically binding to target receptors as indicated in .

Bio analytical system exploits the difference between the binding strengths of the specifically bound target substance and the semi specifically bound non target substance to enhance the specificity of detection of the target substance. More specifically by appropriately selecting a volumetric flow rate for flow cell bio analytical system subjects target receptor layer to a hydrodynamic drag force that is large enough to cause a release of most if not all of non target substance from target receptors and yet small enough so that it does not cause a release of much if not any of target substance from the target receptors. Target receptors that become vacant due to the release of non target substance become available for binding target substance as indicated in . As a result the true positive signal originating from the specifically bound target substance is increased and the false positive signal originating from the semi specifically bound non target substance is significantly reduced thereby improving the specificity of detection for the target substance.

It should be noted that bio analytical system operates to exert a hydrodynamic drag force directly onto the receptor bound substance e.g. semi specifically bound non target substance without any assistance from a label which is not used in the system and is typically absent . Another distinction from the prior art is that the hydrodynamic drag force is used in bio analytical system to remove from the target receptor layer a non target substance that has bound non specifically or semi specifically to the target receptors. In contrast International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2005 005951 discloses flow assisted removal of labels bound to the surface of the substrate not removal of the non target substance bound to the target receptors . Conceptual differences between a label and a non target substance can be articulated for example as follows. A label is generally an artificially or synthetically produced entity that is deliberately added to the sample in the corresponding bio analytical system with the purpose of binding to a particular receptor bound target substance and making said target substance detectable by the specific detection means employed in the system. A non target substance is usually originally present in the analyte and is sufficiently similar or related to the target substance so as to be able to bind to the target receptors thereby blocking the target substance from binding to the target receptors.

To achieve best results in the detection of each particular target substance bio analytical system is calibrated to determine optimal operating parameters. During a calibration procedure corresponding to a particular target substance cantilever sensor is exposed to one or more known concentrations of that target substance and a response of the sensor is measured for a variety of flow rates. Then similar measurements are performed for each of the non target substances that are deemed likely to be present in actual analytes. The collected data are compared and analyzed e.g. to identify an optimal flow rate or a range of flow rates at which cantilever sensor yields acceptable ratios between the true positive signal corresponding to the target substance and the false positive signals corresponding to the likely non target substances. During normal operation the calibration data are invoked to operate cantilever sensor in an optimal flow regime thereby achieving enhanced specificity and high statistical sensitivity in the detection of the target substance.

The data of correspond to an embodiment of cantilever sensor that was constructed by bonding using electrically insulating epoxy a 2 mm wide and 150 m thick gold coated glass wafer to a 2 mm wide and 127 m thick PZT piezoelectric transducer wafer. Prior to the bonding a 10 nm thick chromium bonding layer was deposited by e beam evaporation over the gold coated glass wafer. The PZT wafer and the gold coated glass wafer were attached to one another so that distal end of the gold coated glass wafer extended by about 1.7 mm past edge of the PZT wafer also see . After wire leads and clamp were attached to the rear end of the bonded wafers the resulting cantilever had a 0.5 mm long bonded PZT glass portion and a 1.7 mm long gold coated glass tip.

For anti BA functionalization of the tip the gold coated glass tip was first cleaned with a diluted 1 40 in water piranha solution at 20 C. for 2 min. The cleaned tip was then incubated in 2 mM 3 mercaptopropionic acid MPA for 2 hours to form an MPA monolayer on the gold surface. The carboxyl group of the MPA was then activated in a solution of 2 mM N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide and 5 mM N hydroxysuccinimide in water to allow covalent bonding of the primary amines on the anti BA antibody to the MPA on the gold surface of the cantilever tip which resulted in the formation of a target receptor layer that was structurally similar to target receptor layer .

Flow cell had no cover. The flow cell also had a semi circular bottom portion with a radius of 4 mm and the following overall dimensions l 75 mm w 8 mm d 9 mm also see . The tip of the anti BA functionalized cantilever was positioned in the center of flow cell and submerged into the fluid by about 1 mm. The nominal volumetric flow rates were set at 0 1.3 4.6 10 and 14 ml min.

To characterize the responses of the anti BA functionalized cantilever sensor the tip of the cantilever was exposed for a period of 30 minutes to a suspension of spores and the frequency shift versus time was recorded. The measurement was performed at each of the above indicated volumetric flow rates for each of the substances of interest i.e. BA BT BC and BS . The spore concentration was about 20 000 spores ml. It is known that for many conventional assays such as ELISA Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay this spore concentration is too low for reliable detection of the spores. In contrast the anti BA functionalized cantilever sensor advantageously exhibits resonance frequency shifts that can be detected accurately and reliably see e.g. .

To quantify flow based enhancement of specificity the data shown in were used to calculate a selectivity ratio which was defined as a ratio of the resonance frequency shift for the BA suspension and the resonance frequency shift for a BX suspension where X T C or S with both shifts detected at the end of a 30 min exposure to the corresponding spore suspension. The calculated selectivity ratios are graphically shown in . The data of show that at relatively low flow rates e.g. around 1.3 ml min the selectivity ratios are not as good as those obtained with the stationary analyte. However the selectivity ratios markedly increase for flow rates between about 10 ml min and about 15 ml min to significantly exceed the corresponding stationary selectivity ratios. For example the selectivity ratios for BA BT BA BS and BA BC substance pairs advantageously increased from about 4.2 3.5 and 6 respectively at a zero flow rate to about 68 35 and 24 respectively at about 15 ml min.

Based on the data shown in a range of flow rates between about ml min and about 15 ml min is designated as an optimal flow rate range for this particular configuration of bio analytical system . For subsequent operation of bio analytical system in this configuration the user is therefore prompted to select a flow rate from this optimal range. As a result cantilever sensor can advantageously be operated in an optimal regime to provide enhanced specificity and high statistical sensitivity in the detection of BA.

Although various embodiments of the invention have been described above in reference to cantilever based bio analytical system flow based enhancement of specificity can similarly be achieved in other bio analytical systems. Two representative bio analytical systems that implement label free biochemical assays and lend themselves to flow based enhancement of specificity are described in this subsection. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other label free biochemical assays can also be implemented to achieve flow based enhancement of specificity using various embodiments of the invention s described in this specification.

The term SPR refers to a phenomenon that can occur at a surface of a thin metal film e.g. a gold film having a thickness of about 40 nm. At a small range of angles near the critical angle of reflection for the metal film a portion of the incident light is transformed into surface plasmons SPs . SPs also often referred to as surface plasmon polaritons are surface bound waves that can propagate e.g. along a metal dielectric interface or along a metal vacuum interface. SPs can be qualitatively viewed as a combination of electromagnetic waves and associated charge waves. The electromagnetic waves propagate along the interface due to their interaction with free surface charges of the metal. The interaction also causes the surface charges to oscillate in resonance with the electromagnetic wave. The combined physical entity created via this resonant interaction i.e. an entity including a charge wave and an electromagnetic wave is an SP. The value of the incident angle at which SPs are generated in the most efficient manner is very sensitive to the refractive index of the dielectric at the metal dielectric interface due to the effects of surface induced enhancement of the SP s evanescent electric field. A detailed description of pertinent physical properties of SPs can be found e.g. in an article by W. L. Barnes et al. entitled Surface Plasmon Subwavelength Optics published in Nature 14 Aug. 2003 v. 424 pp. 824 830 the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Bio analytical system has a flow cell appropriately connected to a pump not explicitly shown in . In one embodiment flow cell can be connected to the pump in a manner similar to that indicated in for flow cell . One wall of flow cell is formed by a side of a prism . The surface of side facing the flow channel of flow cell has a target receptor layer that is similar to target receptor layer . More specifically target receptor layer comprises a plurality of target receptors attached to a metal film . Target receptors are designed to bind a target substance as indicated in .

Bio analytical system further has a light source configured to illuminate the back surface of side through the body of prism . The light that is reflected from side is detected by a detector array to determine an incidence angle at which SPs are generated most efficiently in target receptor layer hereafter termed the critical SP angle. The critical SP angle manifests itself through the diminished intensity of the corresponding specularly reflected beam. When target receptor layer is exposed to an analyte that can bind to target receptors the binding event can be observed as a change of the critical SP angle e.g. from angle to angle as indicated in . This change is measured using detector array and the measurement result is used to determine the amount of target substance bound to target receptor layer .

When the analyte contains one or more non target substances that can bind to target receptors of target receptor layer e.g. in a manner similar to that illustrated in the change of the critical SP angle might contain a false positive component corresponding to a bound non target substance. However similar to bio analytical system bio analytical system exploits the difference between the binding strengths of target substance and a non target substance to enhance the specificity of detection for the target substance. More specifically by appropriately selecting a volumetric flow rate through flow cell bio analytical system dislodges at least some of the bound non target substance from target receptor layer thereby reducing the corresponding false positive component. Calibration procedures similar to those described above in reference to can be used to advantageously configure bio analytical system for optimal detection of various target substances.

Referring to cantilever sensor differs in several aspects from cantilever sensor . One aspect is that cantilever sensor is designed to be interrogated optically and as such does not require electrical connections and does not have a piezoelectric transducer. A laser and an optical detector e.g. a charge coupled device CCD are used in bio analytical system to optically interrogate cantilever sensor as further described below. Another aspect is that a cantilever portion of cantilever sensor has a target receptor layer only on one side as opposed of having it on at least two sides for comparison see target receptor layer shown in .

Prior to being exposed to a target substance cantilever portion is substantially flat as indicated in . However when target substance binds to target receptor layer it changes mechanical characteristics of the target receptor layer. This change produces a stress gradient between target receptor layer and cantilever portion which causes the target receptor layer and the cantilever portion to deform as indicated in . The extent of this deformation is measured optically as known in the art using laser and optical detector . For example the following characteristics of the deformed cantilever portion can be used to quantify the deformation 1 displacement of an edge with respect to the edge s reference position shown in 2 deflection angle e.g. measured near edge and 3 the curvature profile along the longitudinal direction which is orthogonal to edge . In effect the flat configuration of cantilever portion shown in serves as a reference state with respect to which the deformation is measured. The measurement results are then used to determine the amount of target substance bound to target receptor layer .

When the analyte to which cantilever sensor is exposed contains one or more non target substances that can bind to target receptor layer e.g. in a manner similar to that illustrated in the deformation of cantilever portion might contain a false positive component corresponding to a bound non target substance. However by appropriately selecting a volumetric flow rate through flow cell bio analytical system dislodges at least some of the bound non target substance from target receptor layer thereby reducing the corresponding false positive component. Calibration procedures similar to those described above in reference to can be used to advantageously configure bio analytical system for optimal detection of various target substances.

Additional label free biochemical assays that could benefit from various embodiments of the present invention might be based on quartz crystal microbalance QCM and fiber optic biosensing FOBS technologies. The QCM technology has certain similarities with the above described cantilever technology. The FOBS technology has some similarities with the above described SPR technology. In particular the FOBS technology relies on the evanescent field which is present outside of the fiber core to sense changes in the refractive index at the functionalized external surface of the fiber.

While this invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. For example while bio analytical system has been described above as having a single cantilever sensor the system can be modified to have two or more arrayed cantilever sensors with at least some of the sensors being functionalized for different target substances and or reference measurements. Various modifications of the described embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention which are apparent to persons skilled in the art to which the invention pertains are deemed to lie within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the following claims. In particular the scope of the invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the description and figures herein. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Unless explicitly stated otherwise each numerical value and range should be interpreted as being approximate as if the word about or approximately preceded the value of the value or range.

It will be further understood that various changes in the details materials and arrangements of the parts which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of this invention may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention as expressed in the following claims.

Although the elements in the following method claims if any are recited in a particular sequence with corresponding labeling unless the claim recitations otherwise imply a particular sequence for implementing some or all of those elements those elements are not necessarily intended to be limited to being implemented in that particular sequence.

Reference herein to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiments. The same applies to the term implementation. 

Throughout the detailed description the drawings which are not to scale are illustrative only and are used in order to explain rather than limit the invention. The use of terms such as height length width top bottom is strictly to facilitate the description of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to a specific orientation. For example height does not imply only a vertical rise limitation but is used to identify one of the three dimensions of a three dimensional structure as shown in the figures. Such height would be vertical where the electrodes are horizontal but would be horizontal where the electrodes are vertical and so on. Similarly while all figures show the different layers as horizontal layers such orientation is for descriptive purpose only and not to be construed as a limitation.

Also for purposes of this description the terms couple coupling coupled connect connecting or connected refer to any manner known in the art or later developed in which energy is allowed to be transferred between two or more elements and the interposition of one or more additional elements is contemplated although not required. Conversely the terms directly coupled directly connected etc. imply the absence of such additional elements.

