---

title: Direct FM/PM modulation
abstract: Representative implementations of direct FM/PM modulation and systems are disclosed describing frequency modulation or phase modulation of information onto a carrier signal using a divider that is remote from the carrier signal generation path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554159&OS=08554159&RS=08554159
owner: Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
number: 08554159
owner_city: Neubiberg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100409
---
A conventional wireless transmitter implementing a system based on frequency modulation FM or phase modulation PM such as a mobile telephone FM radio Bluetooth transmitter and the like generally requires a complex architecture to fulfill system performance requirements. Known architectures may be sensitive to design non idealities are characterized by high current consumption and design complexity and in some implementations limited with respect to achievable data rates. Commonly a trade off between current consumption chip size and or architecture complexity may be made independent of the implemented standard e.g. GSM UTMS FM PM Bluetooth etc. . However any increase in the consumption of power circuit area or complexity is usually not desirable especially in implementations integrated into smaller new technology devices including high frequency implementations.

Representative implementations of frequency modulation FM or phase modulation PM devices methods and systems are disclosed describing FM PM modulation of a carrier signal. Modulation includes modifying a periodic carrier signal based on data or other information voice audio video etc. such that the modified carrier signal varies in frequency FM or in phase PM with respect to the information. FM PM modulation is disclosed using a divider that is remote from the carrier signal generation path. For example the divider is not part of the carrier signal generation circuit s . Consequently effects of load pulling or power supply pushing may not be transferred onto the modulated signal since the divider is remote from the signal generation path. However the divider receives and modulates the carrier signal.

A representative environment for implementing direct FM PM modulation is shown in . An illustrative overview of direct FM PM modulation is described with reference to showing an example direct FM PM modulator including two basic elements a divider and a control circuit. In the example shown the divider receives a carrier signal from a remote element and also receives a control signal from the control circuit. The control signal is output from the control circuit based on information received at the control circuit. The divider modulates the information onto the carrier signal using the control signal and outputs a modulated signal.

In an alternate implementation of a direct FM PM modulator as shown in and described with reference to a feedback loop may be used to provide timing to the control circuit. A feedback loop feeds the modulated signal output from the divider into the control circuit. The control circuit thereby operates at the frequency of the modulated signal. Additionally or alternately a feedback loop may be used to provide timing to the divider. The feedback loop described as part of an implementation shown in and described with reference to feeds the modulated signal output from the divider back into an input of the divider. The divider thereby operates at the frequency of the modulated signal.

An example communication system implementing a direct FM PM modulator is illustrated in . The communication system is described as having multiple stages including a signal generation stage a modulation stage and a transmission stage the transmission stage including a driver element for transmitting the modulated signal output from the divider.

Methods of performing direct FM PM modulation are also disclosed. The methods are illustrated in flow diagrams shown in .

An example electronic device implementing direct FM PM modulation is discussed with reference to . The example electronic device includes a RF signal generation stage a modulation stage and a transmission stage as well as supporting stages.

Implementations are explained in more detail below using a plurality of examples. Although various implementations and examples are discussed here and below further implementations and examples may be possible by combining the features and elements of individual implementations and examples.

In the representative environment the communication device is a hand held device such as an MP3 Moving Picture Exerts Group Layer 3 player a personal data assistant PDA a global positioning system GPS unit mobile telephone smartphone or other similar hand held device and the other devices may include for example a computer A another hand held device B a compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD player C a signal processor D e.g. radio navigational unit television etc. and a mobile phone E. In alternative implementations the devices may include any other suitable devices and it is understood that any of the plurality of devices may be equipped with direct FM PM modulator s that operate in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure.

As further shown in the communication device includes one or more processors and one or more communication components e.g. transceivers transmitters receivers etc. coupled to a system memory by a system bus . In the implementation shown in the direct FM PM modulator is included as an element within the communication component of the communication device . In alternative implementations however the direct FM PM modulator may be integrated with any other suitable portion of the device or may be a separate individual component of the device .

The system bus of the communication device represents any of the several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The communication component may be configured to operatively communicate with one or more external networks such as a cellular telephone network a satellite network an information network e.g. Internet intranet cellular network cable network fiber optic network LAN WAN etc. an infrared or radio wave communication network or any other suitable network.

The system memory may include computer readable media configured to store data and or program modules for implementing the techniques disclosed herein that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by the processor . For example the system memory may also store a basic input output system BIOS an operating system one or more application programs and program data that can be accessed by the processor for performing various tasks desired by a user of the communication device .

Moreover the computer readable media included in the system memory can be any available media that can be accessed by the device including computer readable storage media and communication media. Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium including paper punch cards and the like which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the communication device .

Similarly communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Generally program modules executed on the device may include routines programs objects components data structures email applications and or web browsers etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as a native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environments. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations.

Although the representative environment is shown as in as a communication network this implementation is meant to serve only as a non limiting example of a suitable environment for use of the direct FM PM modulator in accordance with the present disclosure. Similarly the device is simply one non limiting example of a suitable device that may include direct FM PM modulators in accordance with the present disclosure.

In an example implementation a direct FM PM modulator comprises a divider and a control circuit . The divider is electrically coupled to the control circuit and receives a control signal Sat an input to the divider . The divider for example a multi modulus divider modulates information onto a radio frequency RF carrier signal Sbased on the control signal Sreceived from the control circuit . In alternate implementations a direct FM PM modulator may comprise alternate or additional elements configured to perform the functions of direct FM PM modulation as disclosed herein.

In one implementation as shown in information e.g. communication information data to be modulated onto the carrier signal and or transmit and or receive channel information is received at an input of the control circuit . The information may be any type of information desired to be communicated via a modulated carrier signal. For example the information may be voice communications analog or digital signals audio or video signals programs data instructions sequences and the like. The information may be received by control circuit from one or more input sources e.g. microphone camera signal processor analog to digital converter server data source and the like .

In an alternate implementation the information may be received by an interpolator before being received by the control circuit . For example the interpolator may output the information to the control circuit . Additionally in an implementation the interpolator may hold a data value from an information stream until a next data value is received. In that way the control circuit consistently has a data value to use in its process including between samples or data points of the information. In alternate implementations the interpolator may be a first second third or n order interpolator based on the implementation. In one implementation the interpolator is a zero order interpolator with no additional device acting as an interpolator the function of which being inherent in the information circuit path. In other implementations additional or alternate elements or devices may perform an interpolation function in the information circuit path. For example in one implementation one or more flip flops may be employed in the information circuit path to perform an interpolation function i.e. holding a present data value until a next value is received .

A control signal Sis output from the control circuit based on the information received at the input of the control circuit . In one example the control signal Scomprises channel information data information and a divider value. The divider value is determined by the control circuit and may be based on an instantaneous frequency of the information received by the control circuit . For example the divider value may reflect information about the modulating and channel data including for example the frequency of that data. In one example implementation the information may be received at the control circuit at about 25 MHz. In alternate implementations the information may be received at higher or lower frequencies.

The divider value determined by the control circuit may be retained for use by the divider e.g. by using flip flops memory devices etc. until the control circuit determines a new divider value. In one example the control circuit determines new divider values at the frequency of the information received by the control circuit . In other implementations as discussed below the control circuit may determine new divider values at other intervals.

The control circuit may be comprised of one or more elements or devices configured to output the control signal S. In one implementation the control circuit comprises a sigma delta modulator. The sigma delta modulator generates the divider value for the divider based on the modulating and channel data received by the sigma delta modulator. In alternate implementations the control circuit may be comprised of other elements or devices configured to output a control signal as described above.

Alternate implementations of a direct FM PM modulator may include feedback loops as shown with the dashed line in . The feedback loops may feed an output of the divider to various elements of the direct FM PM modulator such as the divider the control circuit and the interpolator . In alternate implementations the feedback loops may feed the divider output signal S or a separate output signal a feedback signal from the divider to the various elements of the direct FM PM modulator . For instance the separate output signal feedback signal may be generated by various parts or stages of the divider . Example alternate implementations having feedback loops are described below with reference to .

In an implementation the divider may also be electrically coupled to a carrier signal generation source . The divider receives a RF carrier signal Sfrom the carrier signal generation source . The carrier signal generation source may be a signal generation circuit e.g. a phase locked loop PLL voltage controlled oscillator VCO crystal oscillator etc. which can generate a RF signal suitable as a carrier signal. In some implementations the carrier signal may be about 6 GHz. In other implementations the carrier signal may be higher or lower based on the implementation.

Accordingly in one example the carrier signal generation source can generate a RF signal of a fixed frequency that is stable over temperature and voltage as well as process tolerances. If a PLL is used as a carrier signal generation source both integer N and fractional N PLL types may be used as long as the noise performance requirements of the system are met for the particular implementation i.e. voice versus data . In one example a PLL is tuned to a desired frequency and it is kept in a locked state generating a fixed preprogrammed frequency the generated carrier signal being received by the divider at a carrier frequency F.

In one implementation the divider is remote from the carrier signal generation source . For example the divider is not part of the carrier signal generation source circuit s and is not a part of the carrier signal generation path. For instance if a PLL is used as a carrier signal generation source the divider is not part of the PLL loop. Accordingly if other carrier signal generation sources are used the divider is not part of the carrier signal generation path for the other sources. Consequently effects of load pulling or power supply pushing may not be transferred onto the modulated signal since the divider is remote from the signal generation loop of the PLL.

In an implementation the divider modulates the channel and data information received from the control circuit onto the carrier signal Sreceived from the carrier signal generation source . For example the divider may divide the carrier signal Swith the divider value as part of modulating the information onto the carrier signal S. This division may be performed to generate a desired channel frequency based on the implementation of the modulator . For example the desired channel frequency may be about 100 MHz in one implementation based on an FM radio implementation. In other implementations the desired channel frequency may be higher or lower based on other implementations.

Accordingly a modulated signal at a frequency based on the frequency of the carrier signal divided by the divider value is created. The modulated signal is referred to in as the divider output signal S and may be output by the divider containing channel and data information. In alternate implementations the modulated signal divider output signal S may be a frequency modulated FM signal or a phase modulated PM signal. In one implementation the modulated signal divider output signal S may be used to control a transmitter stage of a communication device.

In one implementation the divider is a noise shaping divider. The divider may be configured to provide noise shaping based on the control signal received from the control circuit . For example the divider may be configured to provide noise shaping by transferring at least a portion of noise located within a predetermined range of the modulated signal frequency the frequency of the divider output signal S to a preset frequency. The noise may be transferred to a frequency e.g. a higher frequency out of band frequency etc. where it may be filtered for example by a front end filter antenna characteristics or other frequency selective components. In other implementations the transferred noise may be reduced if not eliminated using other techniques. In one example implementation having a carrier signal frequency of 100 MHz the divider may be configured to transfer at least a portion of the noise present within the modulation bandwidth for instance 125 kHz to a preset frequency of about 120 to 200 MHz 20 100 MHz offset from the carrier frequency of 100 MHz . Thus the example implementation may include an antenna having a 5 MHz bandwidth effectively filtering off the transferred noise. Alternate implementations may operate at other frequencies while applying the noise shaping or noise transferring principles discussed.

In general the example direct FM PM modulator operates as described with respect to the example direct FM PM modulator . However the direct FM PM modulator comprises the addition of at least one feedback loop. In one implementation the direct FM PM modulator comprises a feedback loop configured to feed the modulated signal divider output signal S into the control circuit providing timing to the control circuit and triggering the control circuit to generate a divider value.

In one example implementation information i.e. communication information generally including modulating data with channel information is received by the control circuit at a sampling frequency Fs. shows a signal diagram illustrating the information at a frequency F and having a period of T where T 1 F. As discussed above the control circuit determines an instantaneous divider value shown in as N based on the information received by the control circuit . The divider value Nis output from the control circuit and received by the divider . The control circuit calculates a new divider value when the divider has finished a division of the carrier frequency Fwith the previous divider value.

The divider divides the carrier frequency Fby the divider value Nto determine a frequency for the divider output signal S. This frequency is shown in the signal diagram as F and has a corresponding period of T. As described above the divider outputs a divider output signal S at the modulated signal frequency F. In one example implementation the divider output signal Sis fed back from the output of the divider into the control circuit . Thus the frequency F and corresponding period T generates a trigger signal for the control circuit via the feedback loop.

In one implementation the control circuit determines a divider value Nwhen a trigger signal is present in the feedback loop as described above. illustrates an example of data flow from the control circuit to the divider based on the feedback loop providing timing to the control circuit . The information shown as data points D D D . . . Dk is received by the control circuit at frequency F but is output from the control circuit and received by the divider at frequency Fdue to the feedback loop providing timing to the control circuit . If the time shown as T from the beginning of a period Tto the reception of a new data point D D D . . . Dk by the control circuit at frequency F is less than or equal to the period T then the new data point is sent to the divider from the control circuit . Otherwise the previous data point is repeatedly sent to the divider from the control circuit . Accordingly the divider may be working with the same data point as long as the divider is able to do a full division before a new data point arrives from the control circuit .

For example as shown in data point D is sent from the control circuit to the divider at the start of times T Tand T. New data point D arrives at the control circuit during the time period T where Tis less than T. Thus data point D is sent from the control circuit to the divider at the beginning of time period T.

In this implementation the instantaneous frequency at the divider output represents not only the frequency of the modulated signal but also represents the clocking frequency for the control circuit . Thus the control circuit operates at the instantaneous frequency Fof the divider output signal S. With the control circuit operating at a higher clocking frequency the divider may be more effective at noise shaping since the divider will be receiving information data points at a higher frequency from the control circuit .

In an alternate implementation the control circuit may receive a timing signal from one of the previous stages of the modulator instead of from the output of the divider . For example a timing signal may be fed to the control circuit from another signal source e.g. PLL crystal oscillator etc. or from a signal processing circuit upstream of the control circuit as shown in and discussed below . This may allow the control circuit to run on a lower frequency with decreased current consumption. However some increased noise at the divider output signal Smay result due to a lower control circuit frequency.

Alternately or additionally the direct FM PM modulator may comprise a feedback loop from the output of the divider back into the divider as shown in and described with respect to an example direct FM PM modulator below.

In general the example direct FM PM modulator operates as described with respect to the example direct FM PM modulator . However in one implementation the direct FM PM modulator comprises the addition of a feedback loop configured to feed the modulated signal divider output signal S back into the divider providing timing to the divider .

In one example implementation information is received by the control circuit at a sampling frequency Fs. The sampling frequency Fmay be a product of signal processing elements configured to output the information to the control circuit as discussed above. shows a signal diagram illustrating the information at a frequency F and having a period of T where T 1 F. As discussed above the control circuit determines an instantaneous divider value shown in as N N N . . . Nn based on the information received by the control circuit . The divider value Nn is output from the control circuit to the divider .

The divider value Nn is received by the divider which divides the carrier frequency Fby the divider value Nn to determine a frequency for the divider output signal S. As described above the divider outputs a divider output signal S at the modulated signal frequency F. In one example implementation the divider output signal Sis fed from the output of the divider back into the divider .

As discussed with regard to the exemplary direct FM PM modulator the control circuit determines a divider value Nn based on the instantaneous frequency of the information received by the control circuit . This is illustrated in the signal diagram of . As is shown the information at frequency F shown as data points D D D . . . Dk is received by the divider at frequency Fif there is no feedback loop triggering the control circuit . Accordingly the divider receives a new divider value Nn at the frequency that the control circuit receives the information. Thus the control circuit is working according to its data input and at the data input frequency F.

However since the divider output signal Sis fed back into the divider the divider is working at the instantaneous frequency of the modulated signal the divider output signal S which enables synchronization of the divider input with a clocking frequency of the modulated signal. Thus the divider may sample the output of the control circuit at the frequency of the modulated signal.

In this implementation the divider uses a new divider value Nn when it has closed the division with the previous divider value Nn.

In one example a signal generation stage is configured to generate a radio frequency RF carrier signal. For example the signal generation stage may comprise a carrier signal generation source as described above. The RF carrier signal may be output from the signal generation stage and received by the modulation stage .

In one implementation the modulation stage is electrically coupled to the signal generation stage . In addition the modulation stage is also remote from the signal generation stage . For example the modulation stage is not part of the signal generation stage circuit s and is not a part of the signal generation stage signal paths. However the modulation stage receives the RF carrier signal output from the signal generation stage .

In one implementation the modulation stage includes a divider element and a control element . The divider element and the control element operate in a similar manner as the divider and the control circuit described above. For example in one implementation the control element receives communication information at an input of the control element . The control element outputs a control signal based on the communication information and outputs an instantaneous divider value based on an instantaneous frequency of the communication information.

In one implementation the divider element is located outside of the signal generation stage . Similar to the description above the divider element modulates the communication information onto the RF carrier signal based on the control signal output by the control element . The divider element also receives the instantaneous divider value and divides the frequency of the RF carrier signal with the instantaneous divider value to produce a modulated signal frequency. The divider element outputs the modulated signal at the modulated signal frequency.

In one implementation the divider element provides noise shaping as described above with respect to the divider . For example the noise shaping may be based on the control signal received by the divider element . In one example the divider element shapes the noise by transferring at least a portion of the noise located within a predetermined range of the modulated signal frequency to a preset frequency. For instance the divider element may transfer close in noise noise within a predetermined range of the modulated signal frequency to a much higher frequency where the noise may be filtered off the signal.

In one alternate implementation the modulation stage may include a feedback loop to feed the modulated signal from the output of the divider element into the control element . In one example the modulated signal provides timing for the control element and triggers the control element to generate the instantaneous divider value.

Additionally or alternatively the modulation stage may include a feedback loop to feed the modulated signal from the output of the divider element back into the divider element to provide timing for the divider element . In other implementations other feedback loops may be used for example to provide timing or the like. Some example feedback loops are shown in dashed lines in . For example in alternate implementations a feedback loop as illustrated in may feed another signal a feedback signal from an output of the divider element to a part of the modulation stage where the feedback signal is not the modulated signal for instance it may be a signal from another stage or portion of the divider element .

In alternate implementations the modulation stage may include an interpolator as described above with reference to . In one implementation the interpolator may be a zero order interpolator as described above.

In one implementation the transmission stage is electrically coupled to the modulation stage . In one example the transmission stage includes a driver element TX output stage on and an antenna not shown . The driver element outputs the modulated signal to the antenna for transmission of the modulated signal. Thus the driver element may include one or more amplifiers filters or similar elements configured to output the modulated signal to the antenna for transmission of the modulated signal. For example in one implementation the driver element may include a tuneable frequency and a tuneable output signal level controllable via digital tuning algorithms based on on chip measurements. In other implementations the driver element may include other tuning control and signal level techniques and methods.

In alternate implementations the transmission stage may also include elements or devices to improve efficiency performance and the like. These elements or devices may be included on a common chip or may be remotely located. For example the transmission stage may include a matching network to match the impedance of the transmission stage to the antenna to optimize transmission power output. Further in some implementations the transmission stage may include controls coupled to the driver element and the matching network . In alternate implementations the controls may be configured to control one or more of amplitude biasing resonant frequency and impedance matching. The transmission stage can be either single ended or differential depending on the type of antenna used in alternate implementations.

At block an analog or digital carrier signal is received at a divider such as the divider of and . The carrier signal may be output by a carrier signal generation source e.g. analog signal generator voltage controlled oscillator VCO phase locked loop PLL crystal oscillator digital clock source etc. . In one implementation the divider is remote from the carrier signal generation source and remote from the carrier signal generation path. For example the divider is not part of the carrier signal generation circuit s and is not a part of the carrier signal generation path s .

At block a control signal is received at the divider. In one implementation the control signal is received from a sigma delta modulator and the control signal is based on communication information received by the sigma delta modulator. The communication information may include voice signals or data signals and or a combination of the two. In the case of a voice signal the source of the signal may be a microphone. If the communication information is a data signal then the signal may include audio and or video signals or the like. In one implementation the control signal additionally or alternatively includes a divider value. The divider value may be based on the communication information e.g. the frequency of the communication information .

At block the communication information is modulated onto the analog or digital carrier signal based on the divider value to produce a modulated signal. The frequency of the modulated signal is the carrier signal frequency divided by the divider value. In one implementation the modulation is performed by a divider for example a multi modulus divider. In alternate implementations the communication information is modulated onto the analog or digital carrier signal using frequency modulation or phase modulation.

At block the modulated signal is output from the modulating element. For example the modulated signal may be output from the divider. Thus in alternate implementations the modulated signal may be a frequency modulated FM signal or a phase modulated PM signal. In one implementation the modulated signal is output to a transmitter driver to provide control to the transmitter driver. For example in one implementation the transmitter driver may transmit the modulated signal via an antenna.

In one implementation the modulated signal output from the divider is fed back into the divider to provide timing. For example the modulated signal may provide timing for the divider synchronizing the operation of the divider with that of other elements or stages. For example the input of the divider may be synchronized to elements coupled to the output of the divider. In another implementation the modulated signal may be additionally or alternately fed into a control circuit to provide timing for the control circuit and to trigger the control circuit to generate a divider value. Thus the control circuit may operate at the frequency of the modulated signal including potentially generating a divider value at that frequency.

At block of method shown in an instantaneous divider value is generated from the communication information described above with reference to block . In one implementation the instantaneous divider value is generated by a sigma delta modulator and output to the divider. Further the instantaneous divider value may be based on the frequency of the communication information.

At block the divider divides the instantaneous divider value into the analog or digital carrier signal as part of modulating the communication information onto the carrier signal to produce the modulated signal frequency. In one implementation for example the divider may divide the instantaneous divider value into the carrier signal to generate a desired channel frequency for the modulated signal for transmission of the modulated signal.

At block noise located within a predetermined range of the modulated signal frequency is transferred to a preset frequency. For example noise that is close in to the frequency of the modulated signal may be transferred to another frequency that is out of band with the transmitted frequency. Thus the noise may not be transmitted with the modulated signal. In another example the noise may be transferred to a high frequency and filtered off using a front end filter antenna characteristics or other frequency selective components. In alternate implementations the amount of noise that is transferred may be based on the frequency of operation of the sigma delta modulator. For example more noise may be transferred with a higher frequency of operation than with a lower frequency of operation.

The electronic device can further include one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving radio frequency RF signals including transmitting the modulated signal as described above. The antennas may be configured to receive different radio frequencies in different bands. The antenna can include smart antennas fractal antennas microstrip antennas and so on.

The electronic device may include a RF signal generation stage that can generate a RF carrier signal suitable for modulation. The RF signal generation stage may include a VCO to generate a stable carrier wave which may include a PLL for a fixed frequency that is stable over temperature voltage as well as process tolerances. In other implementations the RF signal generation stage may include other types of signal generation elements or devices.

A carrier signal generated by the RF signal generation stage may be modulated by the modulation stage . In one implementation the modulation stage may include a divider and a control circuit as described above. In an implementation the modulation stage may be remote from the RF signal generation stage . For example the modulation stage may not be a part of the RF signal generation stage or the RF signal generation path.

The output of the modulation stage may include a modulated signal. Further the modulation stage may provide noise shaping to the modulated signal transferring some if not all noise to a preset frequency e.g. a higher frequency to be filtered away from the modulated signal.

Demodulators can be included in the electronic device in order to demodulate a signal received via the antenna and strip off the carrier frequency to obtain a baseband signal representing the information carried on the received signal.

A transmission stage may be included in the electronic device to transmit the modulated signal. Amplifiers and filters may also be present within the transmission stage to amplify the modulated signal and minimize the noise and distortion of the modulated signal in the useful band. The amplifiers can be power amplifiers audio video amplifiers and so on. The filters in the electronic device can include pre filters noise shapers digital filters analog filters and so on. The electronic device also may include a battery or power supply to provide power to the electronic device .

Although the implementations of the disclosure have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the implementations are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as representative forms of implementing the invention.

