---

title: Health and life sciences medicaid high performance capability assessment
abstract: A high-performance capability assessment model helps a Medicaid program meet the challenges of the health market. As a result, the Medicaid program can achieve the clarity, consistency, and well-defined execution of core processes that reduce inefficiencies and waste that result from unnecessary process complexity and exceptions. In addition, the high-performance capability assessment model helps the Medicaid program to identify specific areas in which improvements may be made, to understand how to make said improvements, and to establish levels of capability along the way to reaching an ultimate capability goal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08355926&OS=08355926&RS=08355926
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08355926
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100208
---
This disclosure concerns a system and method for identifying the performance of an organization on a scale of mastery across representative capabilities of the organization s industry. In particular this disclosure relates to an efficient and cost effective way to assess the performance level of key capability areas within the processes of a Medicaid program.

Modern Medicaid programs operate in an increasingly challenging environment. To survive Medicaid programs must adapt to this environment and execute in a clear consistent and efficient manner. Furthermore the competitive nature regulatory requirements low profit margins and competitive challenges of Medicaid programs greatly increase the complexity and difficulty of surviving on a day to day basis.

Despite the need for Medicaid programs to meet the challenges of the health related market it is still often the case that the programs lack clarity consistency and well defined execution of its core processes. These shortcomings severely constrain the programs and lead directly to inefficiencies and waste due to unnecessary complexity process exceptions and customer dissatisfaction. At the same time it can be very difficult to identify specific processes to which improvements may be made either because the program management itself does not have the expertise to identify the processes or because the complexities of the programs frustrate attempts to clearly delineate the processes to be improved.

Even if the Medicaid programs on their own could identify one of the many processes that it needs to improve the business or management would not necessarily know how to improve the process or be able to identify a concrete and measurable improvement goal. Another difficulty exists in determining whether there are any intermediate goals that should be reached along the way. As Medicaid programs struggle to meet the demands of the modern economic and health landscape they fail to identify opportunities for maximizing efficiency category expansion multi channel execution customer satisfaction and to reach other important goals.

Therefore a need exists for an efficient and effective system and method to assess the performance level of key assessment areas within the processes of a Medicaid program.

A high performance capability assessment HPCA model helps a Medicaid program meet the challenges of the market segment by defining a scale of performance mastery along which the current practices of the program may be located. The HPCA model accelerates the discovery of process and performance gaps within program operations. In addition the HPCA model also helps the program to identify specific areas in which improvements may be made how to make the improvements and how to establish performance measures during the course of attempting to achieve an ultimate goal. As a result the programs can achieve the clarity consistency and well defined execution of core processes that maximize the operating budget for optimum outcomes.

The HPCA model includes a key factor dimension and a performance mastery scale dimension. The performance mastery scale dimension defines multiple mastery levels. The performance mastery levels form a scale of increasing organizational performance. The scale includes a Basic mastery level a Competitive mastery level and a Market Leading mastery level along a horizontal axis. Each performance mastery level includes criteria specific to a corresponding key assessment area. Each key assessment area identifies some aspect of a capability of a Medicaid program.

A capability can be defined as a bundle of closely integrated skills knowledge technologies and cumulative learning that is exercised through a set of processes and that collectively represents an program s ability to create value by producing outcomes and results. Capability areas do not represent a delineation of organizational responsibilities because the outcomes of a capability may be the result of a number of cross functional teams. Capabilities of a business may be grouped into areas and or platforms including platforms and sub platforms depending on the organizational structure of the business.

For example the HPCA model groups the capabilities of the Medicaid program into nine main areas or platforms which may also be thought of as program areas namely a program management platform a care management platform a contractor management platform a program integrity management platform a business relationship management platform a provider management platform a member management platform an operations management platform and an enterprise platform. Each platform may include multiple sub platforms. For example the program integrity management platform may include three sub platforms namely an identify candidate case sub platform a manage case sub platform and a payment integrity sub platform.

Some of the platforms and sub platforms may include additional or further levels while others may not and may also include capabilities at their lowest level. Examples of capabilities within the program quality management sub platform include for example a manage business performance capability and a manage quality risk and performance capability.

The key factor dimension establishes a set of key assessment areas in which to analyze the capabilities of a business. Key assessment areas include performance capability criteria. Performance capability criteria populate the performance capability assessment model. The performance capability criteria may be specific to any one of many different business capabilities. Any number of performance capability assessment models and performance capability criteria may be defined and stored in a capability detail pool for subsequent retrieval and application to a business under examination. Accordingly the HPCA model provides a flexible and adaptive scale of performance capability against which business practices may be compared to ascertain where the capabilities of a program under examination fall along the scale.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. All such additional systems methods features and advantages are included within this description are within the scope of the invention and are protected by the following claims.

The HPCA model establishes a multidimensional Medicaid program performance reference set that includes multiple key assessment performance levels further described below in reference Tables 1 3. The performance levels establish a scale of increasing effectiveness in delivery of each capability. The key assessment performance reference tables include a Basic delivery level a Competitive delivery level and a Market Leading delivery level. The performance levels establish a scale of mastery along which current program practices may be located and identified with respect to any platform and capability within a platform according to an analysis of performance capability criteria PCC . The capability under evaluation may be assigned the performance level based on a delivery effectiveness position along the scale of mastery .

The Basic delivery level specifies Basic performance assessment criteria the Competitive delivery level specifies Competitive performance assessment criteria and the Market Leading delivery level specifies Market Leading performance assessment criteria. The HPCA model receives input data that specifies a Medicaid program platform e.g. a Medicaid program area and a Medicaid program key assessment area for analysis. The HPCA model searches the multidimensional Medicaid program performance reference set for a matching key assessment performance reference table that matches the Medicaid program platform and corresponding program capability within the platform and the Medicaid program key assessment area and retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table. The HPCA model initiates analysis of the matching key assessment performance reference table to obtain a resultant performance assessment level for the Medicaid program key assessment area.

For the capability under evaluation may be assigned a level of mastery based on the program s position along the scale of mastery e.g. the Basic Competitive or Market Leading delivery level . Performance criteria corresponding to the basic competitive and market leading performance levels populate the HPCA model . The performance criteria capture characteristics and or other features of the delivery of a capability at a particular performance level. Examples below illustrate performance criteria that provide analysis and benchmarking for Medicaid programs. The HPCA model performance criteria provide a tool for determining where a platform and capability under examination fall along the scale of mastery .

For example business consultants and business process engineers may interview a business or receive data about the business to determine measure or otherwise ascertain the characteristics criteria and other features of a particular capability implemented within the program. The consultants and engineers may compare the characteristics of the business to the performance criteria in the HPCA model and arrive at an assessment level for the capability under examination. In doing so for example the consultants and engineers may identify where the capability under examination falls in terms of the performance level for each key assessment area of a capability and determine an overall position on the scale of mastery for the capability under examination. Performance criteria may populate the HPCA model in whole or in part. Multiple high performance capability assessments may be collected and stored with the performance criteria for future retrieval and possible modification in a capability detail pool discussed below.

The tables provided in the appendix immediately following the abstract which form part of this disclosure provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance criteria for some of the capabilities within the respective sub platforms. Each capability may include one or more key assessment areas. Each key assessment area may include one or more additional key assessment areas. In other words a business capability may include sub capabilities and therefore key assessment areas corresponding to the multiple sub capabilities. The tables in the appendix show specific criteria used to analyze each capability.

One dimension of each table may establish the Basic performance level specifying Basic performance assessment criteria the Competitive performance level specifying Competitive performance assessment criteria and the Market Leading performance level specifying Market Leading performance assessment criteria. Another dimension of each table may specify one or more key assessment areas KAAs several of which are labeled and . As noted above performance criteria e.g. the PCC populate each key assessment performance reference table to provide benchmark criteria for Basic Competitive and Market Leading characteristics.

The reference set represents the HPCA model . Consistent with the HPCA model the reference set may organize multiple reference tables into a hierarchical structure defining discrete changes in granularity. In one implementation the hierarchical structure includes reference tables high level platforms platforms sub platforms and models. labels three sub platforms and . The reference set may further organize the platforms two of which are labeled and . Platforms aggregate into the HPCA model and corresponding reference set . Additional different or fewer levels of granularity may be defined in the HPCA model .

The reference set may dynamically populate the reference tables with the most up to date performance criteria for example upon retrieval and presentation by a business analysis consultant. The performance criteria may be retrieved from a performance capability criteria database or other information source.

In one implementation the capability performance database stores performance criteria. As will be described in more detail below the system may populate performance capability assessment models with performance capability criteria suited to any particular platform or sub platform e.g. a program quality management sub platform and business capability at one or more capability levels across one or more key assessment areas. The performance measured database may store the determined measured or otherwise ascertained characteristics criteria and other measured data of a particular key assessment area as representative practice data . The representative practice data may be obtained through interviews with business consultants and industrial engineers through online questionnaires through manual or automated analysis of business data e.g. year end operating reports or by other means. The capability detail pool database stores the capability detail pool which includes pre defined performance capability assessment models . The assessment results database stores determined capability levels for specific capabilities that have been analyzed.

The system facilitates the review modification creation and application of performance capability assessment models. In that role performance capability assessment model manipulation logic manipulation logic within the system creates retrieves and stores capability assessment data in the memory . The manipulation logic may establish capability assessment data in the memory including a capability assessment data structure with multiple capability levels CL organized along a scale of mastery dimension multiple key assessment areas KAA organized along a key factor dimension and performance criteria PCC that populate the performance capability assessment model . The manipulation logic may vary widely in implementation and as one example may include data storage logic that saves data in memory and user interface logic that accepts capability level specifications key assessment area specifications and performance capability criteria inputs to create new performance capability assessment models to modify existing performance capability assessment models to delete performance capability assessment models or to retrieve performance capability assessment models for review.

In one implementation the manipulation logic establishes the capability assessment data structure to include a multidimensional Medicaid program performance reference set that includes multiple key assessment performance reference tables in which the key assessment performance reference tables include a Basic capability performance level a Competitive capability performance level and a Market Leading capability performance level.

The capability assessment data may also include a capability position specifier . The capability position specifier may record the capability level along the scale of mastery as determined for any particular capability. Thus the system may store the performance level in the assessment results database or elsewhere for future retrieval and review.

In one implementation the data population logic may be a data population program executed by the processor that populates template performance capability assessment models. For example the data population logic may include input logic that accepts input specifying a capability of interest that indicates a particular performance capability assessment model. The data population logic may include query logic that executes database queries and prompts a user for input to obtain the corresponding performance capability criteria for the capability of interest.

In another implementation for example the query logic may receive an input specifying a Medicaid program area and a Medicaid program key assessment area with the Medicaid program area for analysis. The query logic searches the multidimensional Medicaid program performance reference set for a matching key assessment performance reference table that matches the Medicaid program area and the Medicaid program key assessment area and retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table.

The data population logic may further include storage logic that adds the retrieved performance capability criteria to the template performance capability assessment model. The data population logic produces populated performance capability assessment structures that may be stored in the capability detail pool database .

In addition to the analysis process described above the system may provide an automated analysis of representative practice data that identifies relevant performance capability criteria and determines the position on the scale of mastery of each key assessment area corresponding to the performance capability criteria for the representative practice data . As one example the system may implement capability assessment logic that includes comparison and or matching logic that analyzes the representative practice data with respect to performance capability criteria to locate key assessment areas for which the system can determine capability levels to obtain a resultant performance level for each key assessment area.

Furthermore the capability assessment logic may determine an overall position on the scale of mastery as the capability position specifier for a capability under examination given the knowledge of where the key assessment areas corresponding to the capability under examination fall in each capability level. Thus for example the capability assessment logic may determine an overall capability level for a capability corresponding to the capability level for the majority of the key assessment areas or it may apply a weighted analysis technique to give more emphasis to some key assessment areas than others in determining the overall position on the scale of mastery for a capability. As another example the capability assessment logic may implement an expert system e.g. based on a neural network trained on prior determinations that analyzes the determined characteristics with respect to the performance capability criteria and ascertains where the capability under examination falls along the scale of mastery for each of the key assessment areas or overall on the scale of mastery.

In another example the system searches the multidimensional Medicaid program performance reference set in the capability detail pool for a matching key assessment performance reference table based on the input data that specifies a Medicaid program platform and a Medicaid program key assessment area. The system retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table and initiates analysis of the matching key assessment performance reference table to obtain a resultant performance level for the Medicaid program key assessment area.

The system obtains representative practice data for the capability under examination in the specific business under review . For example a business consultant may interview the business to determine how the business currently executes the capability under review. As another example a representative from the business may complete a questionnaire submit business data for analysis and parameter extraction or otherwise provide the characteristics of their current capability execution. As a further example the system may retrieve the representative practice data from a database of previously obtained representative practice data.

The system compares the representative practice data to the performance criteria in the performance capability assessment model . For example a business consultant may use his or her expertise to determine the level for the business and the capability under examination . Alternatively or additionally the capability assessment logic may perform an automated analysis of the assessment results data in the assessment results database and ascertain the performance level on the scale of mastery . The system may store the assessment results including the determined performance level for future reference in the assessment results database or other location .

The capability assessment logic may determine based on the number of performance capability criteria that meet or exceed the relevance threshold that the capability assessment logic has identified a sufficient number of performance capability criteria for a specific key assessment area in order to determine a performance level for the capability as a whole or any key assessment area within the capability . As one example where at least 51 of the performance capability criteria for a particular key assessment area meet or exceed the relevance threshold the capability assessment logic applies the performance capability criteria to the representative practice data . In another example the performance capability criteria for a particular key assessment area may be ranked in importance and or designated as mandatory in order to assess the key assessment area. In the event the capability assessment logic identifies the mandatory performance capability criteria for a key assessment area the capability assessment logic applies the performance capability criteria to the representative practice data .

The capability assessment logic may apply the performance capability criteria meeting or exceeding the relevance threshold to the representative practice data to determine whether any particular PCC is met. Accordingly as the capability assessment logic analyzes the PCC the system tracks the best fit of the representative practice data to the PCCs in the key assessment performance reference tables. In other words the system determines how the representative practice data meets or does not meet each PCC thereby gaining insight into whether the representative practice data is indicative of Basic Competitive or Market Leading practices.

The system may also gauge the position on the scale of mastery of each key assessment area corresponding to the performance capability criteria . The capability assessment logic may further determine an overall position on the scale of mastery for a capability . The capability assessment logic may establish that a desired number and or designated mandatory performance capability criteria for the key assessment areas have been identified as relevant to a capability and sufficient to determine the position on the scale of mastery for the capability. For example the capability assessment logic may determine an overall performance level for the capability based on the performance level determined for the majority of the key assessment areas. The capability assessment logic may apply a weighted analysis technique to give more emphasis to some key assessment areas than others in determining the overall position on the scale of mastery for the capability. Although selected aspects features or components of the implementations are depicted as being stored in computer readable memories e.g. as computer executable instructions or performance capability assessment models all or part of the systems and structures may be stored on distributed across or read from other computer readable media. The computer readable media may include for example secondary storage devices such as hard disks floppy disks and CD ROMs a signal such as a signal received from a network or received at an antenna or other forms of memory including ROM or RAM either currently known or later developed.

Various implementations of the system may include additional or different components. A processor may be implemented as a microprocessor a microcontroller a DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or any other type of memory. The processing capability of the system may be distributed among multiple system components such as among multiple processors and memories optionally including multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters databases and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database may be logically and physically organized in many different ways and may be implemented in many ways including data structures such as linked lists hash tables or implicit storage mechanisms. Programs may be combined or split among multiple programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded or stored in a machine readable or computer readable medium such as a compact disc read only memory CDROM magnetic or optical disk flash memory random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or other machine readable medium such as for example instructions for execution by a processor controller or other processing device.

The medium may be implemented as any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure cells or as a combination of hardware and software.

In other implementations the logic may be represented in a signal or a propagated signal medium. For example the instructions that implement the logic of any given program may take the form of an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or other type of signal. The systems described above may receive such a signal at a communication interface such as an optical fiber interface antenna or other analog or digital signal interface recover the instructions from the signal store them in a machine readable memory and or execute them with a processor.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A processor may be implemented as a controller microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instructions may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

The HPCA model provides unexpectedly good results for a performance capability assessment model particularly in the Medicaid program area. In particular the combinations of key assessment areas and particular assessment criteria of the HPCA model including the criteria noted in the Appendix of Tables provide significant advantages over other assessment models. The unexpectedly good results include clearly identifying and delineating from among multiple related complex processes the specific processes to improve how to improve the process and identifying concrete and measurable improvement goals.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

