---

title: Method, server and system for propagating a wireless communication device state
abstract: A method server and system for propagating a mobile communication device state are provided. State data defining a state of a mobile communication device is received from the mobile communication device at a server in communication with the mobile communication device. The state data is incorporated into wireless network data transmitted from the mobile communication device. The state data is stored in a resource indicator storing at the server. A request for the state data is received from a second server. At least a subset of the state data is transmitted to the second server, such that the second server can determine whether the mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08848625&OS=08848625&RS=08848625
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08848625
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101005
---
The specification relates generally to wireless communication devices and specifically to a method server and system for propagating the state of a wireless communication device.

Optimization of wireless link usage can be challenging and complex and is associated with the technical problems of bandwidth optimization and integration of third party application servers with carrier networks in order to push data to wireless communication devices.

New mobile business models are exerting downward price pressure on operational expenditure especially for services in mobile networks that are free or supported by advertising revenue. While mobile network usage has become cheaper wireless links are still a premium and applications that use the wireless link without optimization can become needlessly expensive. However optimization of wireless link usage can be very complex and becomes more complex when application content servers external to a carrier network perform the optimization. This is further complicated in situations where an application content server pushes data to wireless communication devices and the push is not requested by the application on a wireless communication device.

A first aspect of the specification provides a method of propagating a mobile communication device state. The method comprises receiving from a mobile communication device at a server in communication with the mobile communication device state data defining a state of the mobile communication device the state data incorporated into wireless network data transmitted from the mobile communication device. The method further comprises storing at the server the state data in a resource indicator. The method further comprises receiving a request for the state data from a second server. The method further comprises transmitting at least a subset of the state data to the second server such that the second server can determine whether the mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data.

The incoming data can be normally transmitted to the mobile communication device via a first link and the state data can comprise data for determining whether the incoming data can be transmitted to the mobile communication device via a second link different from the first link. Transmission of data on the first link can be associated with a first billing rate that is greater than a second billing rate associated with transmission of data on the second link. The first link can comprise a wireless link.

The receiving the request step and the transmitting step can each occur via a server to server API application programming interface at the server.

The state data can comprise at least one of current power remaining on a battery at the mobile communication device available memory at the mobile communication device a roaming status a coverage status a signal strength for a wireless link between the mobile communication device and a network a connectivity status between the mobile communication device and a network or an on off status.

The server can comprise a proxy server for storing state information of a plurality of mobile communication devices.

The method can further comprise removing the at least a subset of the state data of data identifying a user associated with the mobile communications device such that the at least a subset is provided anonymously.

A second aspect of the specification provides a server configured to propagate a mobile communication device state. The server comprises a processing unit interconnected with a memory device and a communication interface. The processing unit is enabled to receive from a mobile communication device via the communication interface state data defining a state of the mobile communication device the state data incorporated into wireless network data transmitted from the mobile communication device store at the memory device the state data in a resource indicator receive via the communication interface a request for the state data from a second server and transmit via the communication interface at least a subset of the state data to the second server such that the second server can determine whether the mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data.

The incoming data can be normally transmitted to the mobile communication device via a first link and the state data can comprises data for determining whether the incoming data can be transmitted to the mobile communication device via a second link different from the first link. Transmission of data on the first link can be associated with a first billing rate that is greater than a second billing rate associated with transmission of data on the second link. The first link can comprise a wireless link.

The receiving the request and the transmitting can each occur via a server to server API application programming interface at the server.

The state data can comprise at least one of current power remaining on a battery at the mobile communication device available memory at the mobile communication device a roaming status a coverage status a signal strength for a wireless link between the mobile communication device and a network a connectivity status between the mobile communication device and a network or an on off status.

The server can further comprise a proxy server for storing state information of a plurality of mobile communication devices.

The processing unit can be further enabled to remove the at least a subset of the state data of data identifying a user associated with the mobile communications device such that the at least a subset is provided anonymously.

A third aspect of the specification provides a system for propagating a mobile communication device state. The system comprises a mobile communication device enabled to transmit state data defining a state of the mobile communication device the state data incorporated into wireless network data transmitted from the mobile communication device. The system further comprises a data center server in communication with the mobile communication device the data center server enabled to extract the state data from the wireless network data and transmit the state data. The system further comprises a status server in communication with the data center server. The status server is enabled to receive the state data from the data center server store the state data in a resource indicator receive a request for the state data and transmit at least a subset of the state data. The system further comprises an application server in communication with the status server. The application server is enabled to request the state data from the status server receive at least a subset of the state data and determine whether the mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data.

A fourth aspect of the specification provides a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for propagating a mobile communication device state the method comprising receiving from a mobile communication device at a server in communication with the mobile communication device state data defining a state of the mobile communication device the state data incorporated into wireless network data transmitted from the mobile communication device storing at the server the state data in a resource indicator receiving a request for the state data from a second server and transmitting at least a subset of the state data to the second server such that the second server can determine whether the mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data. The computer usable medium can be non transitory.

Link comprises a wireless link between mobile communication device and DC server . Similarly link comprises a wireless link between mobile communication device and application server . Each of links can comprise a wireless network such as a wireless carrier network including but not limited to any suitable cell phone network 1X UTMS CDMA GMS 3G EDGE and the like in combination with any suitable combination of wired or wireless networks as desired including but not limited to a packet based network the Internet an analog network the PSTN a WiFi network a WiMax network and the like.

Link can comprise any suitable combination of wired or wireless networks as desired including but not limited to a packet based network the Internet an analog network the PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network a WiFi network a WiMax network and the like. In particular link is different from link and hence can exclude a wireless carrier network in link .

Links can comprise any suitable combination of wired or wireless networks as desired including but not limited to a packet based network the Internet an analog network the PSTN a WiFi network a WiMax network and the like.

Mobile communication device can comprise any suitable mobile communication device and or computing device including but not limited to a tablet laptop or notebook computer a PDA a cellular or mobile phone a portable electronic device or the like. In particular non limiting embodiments mobile communication device can comprise a netbook that connects to cloud services. As netbooks traditionally have less computing power and more sensitivity to battery usage they leverage computing power of the cloud based infrastructure to off load processing. Hence in these embodiments determining whether mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data can be particularly desirable. However other suitable types of mobile communication devices are within the scope of present embodiments. Mobile communication device is described in more detail below with reference to

Status server comprises a processing unit a communications interface and memory device all in communication for example via a computing bus not depicted . Status server comprises any suitable computing device for propagating state data via resource indicator . Status server can include but is not limited to any suitable combination of a computer a mainframe computer a server and the like. Other suitable types of computing devices are within the scope of present embodiments.

Memory device can be any suitable one of or combination of volatile memory non volatile memory RAM Random Access Memory ROM Read Only Memory hard drive optical drive or the like. In particular memory device is enabled to store resource indicator .

Processing unit can comprise any suitable processor or combination of processors including but not limited to a microprocessor CPU central processing unit or the like. Processing unit can comprise a comparator for comparing values including but not limited to alphanumeric values and a calculator for performing mathematical operations on numerical values and or performing textual operations on text values.

Communications interface is enabled to communicate with DC server via link and with application server via link . Accordingly communications interface is enabled to communicate according to any suitable protocol which is compatible with links and or a suitable communications network including but not limited to packet based protocols Internet protocols analog protocols cell phone protocols 1X UTMS CDMA GMS 3G EDGE and the like WiFi protocols WiMax protocols and or a combination of these. Other suitable protocols are within the scope of present embodiments.

Status server can further comprise applications programming interface API stored in memory device and processable by processing unit which enables status server to communicate with application server such that application server can retrieve state data via API . API is generally enabled to broker transmission of state data or a subset thereof to application server . For example application server can request specific state data via request and API can evaluate request and provide the requested state data and or provide a subset of the requested state data based on an identifier of application server permissions associated with application server and the like.

It is understood that status server can store state data similar to state data for a plurality of mobile communication devices similar to mobile communication device . In some embodiments status server comprises a proxy server for storing state information of the plurality of mobile communication devices. It is furthermore understood that state data for the plurality of mobile communication devices can be stored in resource indicator or a plurality of resource indicators . It is understood that resource indicator stores device status information and that data stored in resource indicator is provided to application server via API acting as a broker as described above. In some embodiments resource indicator provides a partial snapshot of all possible device information that can be captured and stored such that a minimum of information is transmitted over the air for example data pertaining to determining whether mobile communication device is in a state to handle incoming data.

In some embodiments status server can comprise a dedicated status server while in other embodiments status server can further comprise another type of server such as a presence server with publish subscribe capabilities. In these embodiments mobile communication device can publish state data to the presence server via transmission of wireless network data and application server can subscribe to state data .

Application server comprises a processing unit a communication interface and a memory device all in communication for example via a computing bus not depicted . Each of processing unit communication interface and memory device can be respectively similar to processing unit communication interface and memory device described above. It is understood that communication interface is further enabled to communicate with mobile communication device via link via any suitable combination of wired and wireless protocols. It is generally understood that application server can be associated with any suitable entity and or network and or carrier including but not limited to an entity and or network and or carrier associated with DC server and third party developers that generate data .

In particular application server is enabled to communicate with status server for example via API to request and receive state data and determine a state of mobile communication device . In particular application server is enabled to determine when data can be transmitted to mobile communication device via link . In some embodiments application server is enabled to determine whether data can be transmitted to application server without first communicating with mobile communication device .

In some embodiments application server is enabled to transmit data to mobile communication device on a periodic basis and or when a predefined trigger occurs. In some embodiments application server can be enabled to push data to mobile communication device for example without first receiving a request for data from mobile communication device . In these embodiments data can comprise data for an application to which mobile communication device is subscribed such as weather reports sports scores stock prices and the like. Hence application server is generally enabled to manage data interface with sources of data via a communication network not depicted such as weather servers sports servers stock market servers and the like and transmit data to mobile communication device . In some embodiments application server can comprise an advertisement server for mobile use cases. For example an advertisement server stores advertisement data and provides the advertisement data to devices such as mobile communication device . In other embodiments application server can comprise a content push server based on subscription. In further embodiments application server can comprise a media service for mobile device.

Transmission of data can occur periodically on a pre determined schedule and or when data is received and or generated at application server . For example application server can compile data from different sources to generate data and or receive data from one or more sources which can trigger transmission of data to mobile communication device . In some embodiments application server can store an identifier of mobile communication device in memory device in association with identifiers of applications to which mobile communication device is subscribed such that data can be determined generated and transmitted.

DC server comprises a processing unit a communication interface and a memory device all in communication for example via a computing bus not depicted . Each of processing unit communication interface and memory device can be respectively similar to processing unit communication interface and memory device described above. It is understood that communication interface is further enabled to communicate with mobile communication device via link via any suitable combination of wired and wireless protocols. DC server is enabled to monitor the operation of mobile communication device by receiving communications such as wireless network data from mobile communication device on a periodic basis and or on demand and or when changes occur at mobile communication device . For example it is understood that embodiments where mobile communication device comprises a cell phone mobile communication device can change cells from within which it is communicating with the wireless carrier network. In these embodiments wireless network data can comprise a handoff communication and or a communication advising DC server that mobile communication device is changing or has changed cells.

However it is understood that wireless network data can include any suitable combination of handoff data ping data keep alive data application control data e.g. metadata for e mail instant messaging etc. and or any other suitable data transmitted from mobile communication device to DC server .

DC server is generally enabled to manage communication of mobile network device with a carrier network such that incoming calls and or data can be routed to mobile communication device . DC server accomplishes such management via wireless network data .

In some embodiments the functionality of status server can be combined with DC server using the resources of DC server . In these embodiments DC server comprises resource indicator and API .

Attention is now directed to which depicts mobile communication device according to non limiting embodiments. Mobile communication device comprises a processing unit a communication interface and a memory device an input device and a display device all in communication for example via a computing bus not depicted and powered by batter . Each of processing unit communication interface and memory device can be respectively similar to processing unit communication interface and memory device described above. It is understood that communication interface is enabled to communicate with DC server via link via any suitable wireless protocol and with application server via link via any suitable wireless protocol.

In particular in some embodiments it is understood that communication interface is enabled to communicate with application server via a carrier network tower with a wireless link between mobile communication device and carrier network tower being a first of several communication links that comprise link . Hence it is understood that from carrier network tower link is completed using any suitable combination of wired and or wireless networks. In some embodiments carrier network tower comprises any suitable cell phone tower. In some embodiments carrier network tower is associated with a carrier network.

Similarly in some embodiments it is understood that communication interface is enabled to communicate with application server via an alternate wireless network apparatus with a wireless link between mobile communication device and alternate wireless network apparatus being a first of several communication links that comprise link . Hence it is understood that from alternate wireless network apparatus link is completed using any suitable combination of wired and or wireless networks. In some embodiments alternate wireless network apparatus comprises any suitable WiFi router and or WiMax router.

Mobile communication device is further enabled to generate state data . For example processing unit can monitor the state of mobile computing device including but not limited to at least one of power available from battery available memory in memory device a roaming status e.g. whether mobile communication device is connected to a home carrier network or a roaming carrier network and or an identifier of the carrier network a coverage status e.g. in coverage or out of coverage and hence representative of reachability a signal strength for link and or link and or link and or link a connectivity status between mobile communication device and at least one of the carrier network and a network other than the carrier network and an on off status.

Though Table 1 is presented in cells arranged in rows and columns it is understood that state data and or any subset thereof can be stored in any suitable format. In any event Table 1 comprises fourteen rows divided into columns each row associated with a subset of status data the first column in each row identifying the status data associated with the row and the second column comprising the state data subset. A first row can identify the date Wednesday Sep. 16 2009 and a second row can identify the time 09 15 e.g. in 24 hour format or any other suitable format . A third row can comprise the on off state of mobile communication device On a fourth row can comprise the percentage power left in batte 85 and a fifth row can comprise memory available to third party applications in memory device 18 MB . A sixth row can identify the home carrier network Cross Border Telephone Company . A seventh row can identify whether or not mobile communication device is roaming Yes when mobile communication device is roaming an eight row can identify the roaming carrier network Away Telephone Company . However when mobile communication device is not roaming the second column of the eighth row can be blank. A ninth row can comprise an indication of whether or not mobile communication device is connected to a carrier network a tenth row can comprise the signal strength of link and an eleventh row can comprise the coverage of the carrier network e.g. 1 or 0 indicating that mobile communication device is reachable 1 or not reachable 0 . A twelfth row can comprise an SSID of a WiFi networks available to mobile communication device a thirteenth row can indicate WiFi connectivity status Connected and a fourteenth row can comprise a signal strength of the WiFi network e.g. 10 dB if connected.

In some embodiments state data further comprises a non routable non identifiable device ID. For example in some embodiments information associated with users cannot be shared beyond a carrier and or a provider of mobile electronic device for privacy and or regulatory reasons. However there can be a further need to identify users via an anonymous for privacy reasons and non routable for security reasons ID e.g. the non routable non identifiable device ID. For example a personal identification number PIN such as 9e45a566 comprises routable identifiable information that can be a traced back to a user and b used to hack into mobile electronic device and or an associated network. To prevent this on the content provider side the PIN can be converted into a hashed identifier such that even if that the hash was accessed by a party that shouldn t be able to access it no harm can be done.

In some embodiments state data can comprise at least a subset of wireless network data . For example state data and network data can each comprise a home carrier network identifier roaming status a roaming carrier network identifier carrier network connectivity status and or coverage data.

In any event processing unit is enabled to generate state data on a periodic basis and or when a given state of mobile communication device changes e.g. when a connectivity status changes when mobile communication device is turned on off and or the like and or when a given state of mobile communication device reaches a threshold value e.g. available memory drops below a threshold battery power falls or rises above a given threshold value and or by a given percentage a signal strength falls above or below a given threshold value and or the like and or just prior to transmitting wireless network data . Indeed processing unit is further enabled to generate and transmit wireless network data to DC server and to cause transmission of state data to DC server by incorporating state data into wireless network data . In embodiments where state data comprises a subset of wireless network data only additional state data is incorporated into wireless network data e.g. if wireless network data already comprises a roaming status and an identifier of the roaming carrier network then redundant data comprising roaming status and an identifier of the roaming carrier network is not added to wireless network data to reduce the overall size of the transmission to DC server .

Attention is now directed to which depicts a method for propagating the state of a wireless communication device. In order to assist in the explanation of method it will be assumed that method is performed using system . Furthermore the following discussion of method will lead to a further understanding of system and its various components. However it is to be understood that system and or method can be varied and need not work exactly as discussed herein in conjunction with each other and that such variations are within the scope of present embodiments.

At step mobile communication device determines state data as described above with reference to Table 1. Step can be performed periodically e.g. every few minutes every few hours etc. as desired when a given state changes when a given state reaches a predefined threshold and or prior to transmission of wireless network data . In some embodiments state data is stored in memory device . In some embodiments if state data has been previously stored in memory device then when state data is again determined stored state data is updated rather than being overwritten in memory device e.g. if power of battery changes but no other given state has changed then the field of Table 1 comprising battery power is updated rather than each field of Table 1 being repopulated and or Table 1 being overwritten .

At step mobile communication device transmits state data to DC server via link by incorporating state data into wireless network data and transmitting wireless network data to DC server . For example state data is appended to wireless network data however state data can be incorporated into wireless network data in any suitable manner. In some embodiments data redundancy is eliminated as described above. Furthermore by incorporating state data into wireless network data which is to be transmitted to DC server irrespective of state data being incorporated into wireless network data mobile communication device is prevented from performing a special transmission of state data . Indeed it is understood that in some embodiments wireless network data can be transmitted to DC server without state data being incorporated therein for example when a hand off between cell towers such as carrier network tower is to occur and no change in the state of mobile communication device has occurred since the last transmission of state data in wireless network data . Hence in some embodiments mobile communication device can comprise logic to determine whether state data is to be incorporated into wireless network data and such a decision can be based on whether or not a change has occurred to state data whether state data has reached a predefined threshold etc. Indeed a plurality of triggers can exist for incorporating state data into wireless network data . However it is understood that whatever change has occurred to state data can affect the transmission of data from application server to mobile communication device .

It is furthermore understood that in some embodiments state data can be generated but mobile communication device does not transmit state data until wireless network data is transmitted. In other words state data is generally transmitted when wireless network data is transmitted and when state data has been generated and or updated and state data is not transmitted when wireless network data is not transmitted.

In embodiments where mobile application server is being turned off or is going offline prior to turning off or going off line wireless network data is transmitted to DC server during the turning off process or going off line process to notify DC server that mobile communication device is no longer available to receive calls and or data. In these embodiments state data can indicate that mobile communication device is Off or that there is no coverage 0 of mobile communication device or that mobile communication device is Not Connected .

At step DC server receives state data in wireless network data and extracts state data from wireless network data . Wireless network data is then processed accordingly for carrier network management purposes and at step state data is transmitted to status server via link .

At step state data is received at status server and at step state data is stored at memory device . In some embodiments state data can be stored in resource indicator .

At step request for state data is received from application server . For example application server can be preparing to transmit data and requests state data from status server by transmitting request to status server via link .

At step status server responds to request by transmitting at least a subset of state data to application server such that application server can determine whether mobile communication device is in a condition to handle data . In some embodiments at step status server strips e.g. removes the at least a subset of the state data of data identifying a user associated with mobile communications device such that the at least a subset is provided anonymously. For example in some embodiments state data can further comprise an identifier of a user of mobile communication device such a name address carrier network customer information and the like e.g. in additional rows of Table 1. Hence to provide state data anonymously status server strips such data from state data . In these embodiments status server can store format data identifying which section of state data contain user data such that those sections can be deleted.

In yet further embodiments request can comprise a request for specific state data for example whether or not mobile communication device is roaming. In these embodiments only a subset of state data which is pertinent to request is transmitted to application server .

At step application server processes at least a subset of state data to determine whether mobile communication device is in a condition to handle data . In some embodiments application server can determine whether mobile communication device can receive data . In other embodiments application server can determine whether mobile communication device can process data . For example application server can determine whether mobile communication device is on or off connected whether there is sufficient coverage whether there is enough remaining battery power to receive and or process data whether there is enough memory available at memory device to receive and or process data and the like. For example in some embodiments data can be data for a battery heavy feature at mobile communication device e.g. data can require a lot of battery heavy processing at mobile communication device . Hence when battery power is below a certain threshold it is not prudent to transmit data to mobile communication device as processing of data at mobile communication device could cause the remaining power to be depleted.

When it is determined that mobile communication device is not in a state to handle data in some embodiments method ends not depicted . In other embodiments request is retransmitted to status server as described above in order to request updated state data preventing data from being transmitted to mobile communication device or delaying transmission until mobile communication device is in a state to handle data .

When mobile communication device is in a state to handle data at step application server determines whether data can be transmitted to mobile communication device via second link rather than first link . Transmission of data on link can be cheaper than transmission of data on link e.g. link can comprise a WiFi link while link can comprise a carrier network link it is appreciated that a billing rate for the first link is greater than a billing rate for the second link . In these embodiments application server can be enabled to transmit data via link at step when link is available hence reducing cost for transmission of data .

Otherwise at an optional step it is determined whether to transmit data on link . For example application server can be enabled not to transmit data when link comprises a roaming carrier network link i.e. when mobile communication device is roaming to reduce cost in transmitting data . If data is not to be transmitted then request can be retransmitted at step as described above such that it can again be determined when link is available and or link comprises a home carrier network link. In any event when it is determined at step that data is to be transmitted via link data is transmitted at step .

In some embodiments step can further comprise determining whether data can be transmitted on link without first communicating with mobile communication device . For example in some of these embodiments prior to transmitting data application server can first query mobile communication device to determine whether data is to be transmitted. Such a query can be prevented by processing at least a subset of state data . However if at step it is determined that data is not to be transmitted based on processing at least a subset of state data then in some embodiments the query to mobile communication device can be transmitted. For example if application server is enabled not to transmit data when mobile communication device is roaming mobile communication device can then be queried as to whether data is to be nonetheless sent. Such a query can trigger mobile communication device to produce an alert that application server is requesting that data be transmitted such that input data can be received at input device indicating whether or not data is to be transmitted a response to the query can then be transmitted back to application server . For example when mobile device is roaming this enables push data to be received or not received based on preferences received at mobile communication device . Alternatively such preferences can be stored at mobile communication device prior to receiving such a query enabling mobile communication device to respond automatically to the query.

In some embodiments once application server receives at least a subset of state data application server can process state data to determine a time that state data was generated e.g. the time stored in Table 1 . In some of these embodiments when a difference in time between a current time and the time in state data is above a threshold value application server can determine that state data may no longer be a current state of mobile electronic device and transmit a query to mobile communication device via link or link to determine if mobile communication device is in a state to handle data . For example if state data is several hours or several days old there may be a likelihood that the state of mobile communication device has changed. In some of these embodiments mobile communication device can have been prevented from generating and or transmitting state data due to a change in settings at mobile communication device and or connectivity problems.

In any event by transmitting state data to status server via wireless network data the state of mobile communication device is propagated through system without using dedicated transmissions thus reducing battery usage at mobile communication device and reducing bandwidth used to propagate the state. Furthermore by making state data available to application server at status server application usage of network resources and resources at mobile communication device is reduced and or optimized. For example WiFi links can be used instead of more expensive 3G links. Applications that require heavy battery usage at mobile communication device can be prevented from transmitting data to mobile communication device if the available power is below a predefined threshold.

In some embodiments the functionality of mobile communication device DC server status server and application server can be implemented using pre programmed hardware or firmware elements e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs etc. or other related components. In other embodiments the functionality of mobile communication device DC server status server and application server can be achieved using a computing apparatus that has access to a code memory not shown which stores computer readable program code for operation of the computing apparatus. The computer readable program code could be stored on a computer readable storage medium which is fixed tangible and readable directly by these components e.g. removable diskette CD ROM ROM fixed disk USB drive . Alternatively the computer readable program code could be stored remotely but transmittable to these components via a modem or other interface device connected to a network including without limitation the Internet over a transmission medium. The transmission medium can be either a non wireless medium e.g. optical and or digital and or analog communications lines or a wireless medium e.g. microwave infrared free space optical or other transmission schemes or a combination thereof

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that there are yet more alternative implementations and modifications possible for implementing the embodiments and that the above implementations and examples are only illustrations of one or more embodiments. The scope therefore is only to be limited by the claims appended hereto.

