---

title: Fatty acid binding proteins as drug targets for endocannabinoids
abstract: The invention provides a method of modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject in need thereof comprising administering an effective amount of an agent that inhibits the interaction of the endocannabinoid with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein (FABP). The invention also provides a method of identifying an agent for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate binding of the endocannabinoid with an intracellular FABP. The invention also provides a method of identifying an agent for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate expression of an intracellular FABP. The invention also provides a method of identifying an agent for treatment of a neurological disorder comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate the interaction of an endocannabinoid with an intracellular FABP. The invention also relates to modulation of levels of fatty acid amides for treatment or amelioration of diseases or disorders by modulating binding of the fatty acid amides to fatty acid binding proteins. In one embodiment, the fatty acid binding protein is one or more of FABP3, FABP5, and FABP7. In one embodiment, the level of an endocannabinoid is modulated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08980820&OS=08980820&RS=08980820
owner: The Research Foundation for the State University of New York
number: 08980820
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100119
---
This invention was made with government support under DA016419 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61 145 737 filed Jan. 19 2009 and U.S. Application No. 61 158 897 filed Mar. 10 2009 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to methods of modulating the levels of endocannabinoids in a subject by administering an agent that modulates the interaction of the endocannabinoids with intracellular fatty acid binding proteins. The invention further provides methods of identifying agents that modulates endocannabinoid function by contacting a test agent with a fatty acid binding protein FABP expressed in the CNS and detecting endocannabinoid binding to the FABP. The agent is then identified by its ability to modulate endocannabinoid binding to the FABP relative to binding of the endocannabinoid to the FABP in the absence of the agent. The invention further provides methods of identifying agents that modulate the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject by assessing the capacity of a test substance to modulate the binding of intracellular fatty acid binding proteins with intracellular fatty acid binding proteins. The invention further provides methods of identifying agents for modulating the levels of endocannabinoids in a subject by testing the agents for their ability to modulate the expression of intracellular fatty acid binding proteins. The invention even further provides methods of identifying agents for treatment of neurological disorders by testing the agents for their ability to modulate the interaction of endocannabinoids with an intracellular fatty acid binding proteins.

The following description summarizes information relevant to the present invention. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art to the presently claimed invention nor that any of the publications specifically or implicitly referenced are prior art to that invention.

Publications and other materials including patents and patent applications used to explain the specification are hereby incorporated by reference.

Cannabinoids include a group of terpenophenolic compounds present in . More broadly the term relates to a group of substances that are structurally related to tetrahydrocannabinol THC or that bind to cannabinoid receptors.

Endocannabinoids are substances produced from within the body which also activate cannabinoid receptors. The first endocannabinoid that was identified was arachidonoyl ethanolamide AEA . Another endocannabinoid that has been identified is 2 arachidonoyl glycerol 2 AG . Like tetrahydrocannabinol many of the actions of AEA and 2 AG are mediated through the cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2.

Cannabinoids have broad effects on the central nervous system CNS and influence for example movement memory nociception endocrine regulation thermoregulation sensory perception cognitive functions and mood. Similarly genetic and pharmacological studies have revealed a broad role for endocannabinoid signaling in a variety of physiological processes including neuromodulator release motor learning synaptic plasticity appetite and pain sensation.

Overall the effects of cannabinoids and endocannabinoids correlate with the distribution of CB1 one of the most abundant G protein coupled receptors in the central nervous system. Knockout CB1 and CB2 mice confirm the important role of the cannabinoid system and by inference the endocannabinoids in the above physiological responses as well as in mediating opiate addictive behavior learning and immunological responses.

In the CNS the endocannabinoids AEA and 2 AG are believed to be synthesized on demand by postsynaptic neurons and to serve as retrograde neurotransmitters to presynaptically localized CB1. As with any other neurotransmitter there are specific mechanisms for the inactivation of endocannabinoids. The inactivation of AEA occurs within cells and is primarily facilitated by the enzyme anandamide amidase now known as FAAH which hydrolysis AEA into arachidonic acid and ethanolamine. By metabolizing anandamide FAAH maintains an inward concentration gradient that drives AEA s cellular accumulation. FAAH is expressed throughout the mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems and in many organs including brain spinal cord liver testis kidney retina uterus and placenta. It is usually found post synaptically in cell bodies.

In general in a first aspect the present invention features a method of modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a cell or cell culture by culturing the cell in the presence of a compound that modulates the amount of the endocannabinoid that can be bound to a fatty acid binding protein expressed by the cell. Accordingly the invention also provides a method for identifying an agent for treatment of a neurological disorder associated with an endocannabinoid. Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. In one embodiment the agent increases the level of the endocannabinoid. In another embodiment the agent reduces the level of the endocannabinoid. In an embodiment the agent modulates binding of the endocannabinoid to the intracellular fatty acid binding protein. In another embodiment the agent modulates expression of the intracellular fatty acid binding protein. In an embodiment of the invention the endocannabinoid is anandamide AEA or 2 arachidonoylglycerol 2 AG . In another embodiment the intracellular fatty acid binding protein is FABP3 FABP5 or FABP7. In yet another embodiment the intracellular fatty acid binding protein is FABP5 and the endocannabinoid is AEA. In yet another embodiment the intracellular fatty acid binding protein is FABP7 and the endocannabinoid is anandamide AEA . In yet another embodiment the intracellular fatty acid binding protein is FABP3 and the endocannabinoid is 2 arachidonoylglycerol 2 AG . In an embodiment of the invention the agent is a small molecule. In yet another embodiment the agent is a nucleic acid. In another embodiment the nucleic acid is an antisense nucleic acid a miRNA or an siRNA. In yet another embodiment the level of the endocannabinoid is modulated in the CNS.

The invention also provides a method of modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates the interaction of the endocannabinoid with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein. In one embodiment the method involves administration of an agent that inhibits the interaction of the endocannabinoid with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein. In another embodiment the method involves administration of a compound that reduces the amount of the endocannabinoid that can be bound or transported by the fatty acid binding protein by reducing the level of the fatty acid binding protein that is expressed by a cell. In one embodiment the agent modulates the level of an endocannabinoid associated with a neurological disorder.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of identifying an agent that modulates endocannabinoid function by contacting a test agent with a fatty acid binding protein FABP expressed in the CNS and detecting ligand binding to the FABP wherein the agent is identified by its ability to modulate ligand binding to the FABP relative to binding of the ligand to the FABP in the absence of the agent. In an embodiment of the invention the ligand is an endocannabinoid.

The invention also provides a method of identifying an agent useful for treatment of a neurological disorder by contacting a test agent with a fatty acid binding protein FABP expressed in the CNS and detecting ligand binding to the FABP. The invention also provides a method of identifying an agent for treatment of a neurological disorder associated with an endocannabinoid by contacting a test agent with a fatty acid binding protein FABP expressed in the CNS and detecting ligand binding to the FABP. In an embodiment of the invention the neurological disorder affects at least one of movement memory mood appetite nociception endocrine regulation thermoregulation sensory perception and cognitive functions. In yet another embodiment the neurological disorder is drug addiction depression compulsive behavior neuropathic pain or a movement disorder.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. In one embodiment the fatty acid binding protein is FABP3 FABP5 or FABP7. In another embodiment the agent inhibits binding of the endocannabinoid to the FABP. In yet another embodiment the affinity of the agent for the FABP is greater than the affinity of the agent for an FABP that is expressed elsewhere in a host but substantially not expressed in the CNS. In yet another embodiment the affinity of the agent for the FABP is greater than the affinity of the agent for one or more FABPs selected from FABP1 FABP2 FABP4 FABP6 FABP8 and FABP9. In another embodiment the agent is selectively inhibits binding of an endocannabinoid to FABP3 FABP5 or FABP7.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of identifying an agent for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject by testing the agent for its ability to modulate expression of an intracellular fatty acid binding protein.

The invention provides a kit useful for identifying a substance that inhibits binding of a ligand to an FABP expressed in the CNS. In an embodiment of the invention the kit comprises a ligand of the FABP useful as a control or in a competitive inhibition assay. In an embodiment of the invention the ligand is an endocannabinoid including but not limited to AEA or 2 AG. In an embodiment of the invention the ligand is the compound BMS309403 or the compound BMS480404. In an embodiment of the invention the FABP and or the ligand is conjugated to a reporter moiety including but not limited to a radiolabel a fluorescence label and enzyme or an immunologically detectable label. Typically the kit will contain or be packaged with instructions for use as described herein.

Cannabinoids are a group of terpenophenolic compounds present in . More broadly the term cannabinoids refers to a group of substances that are structurally related to tetrahydrocannabinol THC or alternatively that bind to cannabinoid receptors. Endocannabinoids on the other hand are substances produced from within the body which also activate cannabinoid receptors. The first endocannabinoid that was identified was arachidonoyl ethanolamide anandamide AEA . Another endocannabinoid that has been identified is 2 arachidonoyl glycerol 2 AG . Like THC many of the actions of AEA and 2 AG are mediated through the cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2.

In the CNS AEA and 2 AG are believed to be synthesized and released on demand by postsynaptic neurons and to serve as retrograde neurotransmitters for cannabinoid CB1 receptors localized on presynaptic neurons. The endocannabinoid 2 AG is metabolized primarily by monoacylglycerol lipase MAGL an enzyme usually found in the presynaptic cell. AEA on the other hand is primarily inactivated and hydrolyzed into arachidonic acid and ethanolamine intracellularly by the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase also known as FAAH.

FAAH is expressed throughout the mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems and in many organs including brain spinal cord liver testis kidney retina uterus and placenta. It is usually found postsynaptically in cell bodies. It displays a monotopic membrane orientation interacting with one leaflet of the lipid bilayer and is oriented towards the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum. FAAH knockout mice possess highly elevated 15 fold to 30 fold levels of AEA palmitoylethanolamide PEA and related fatty acid amides suggesting that FAAH is the principal enzyme mediating their catabolism in vivo.

AEA also belongs to the broader class of fatty acid amides FAAs . Members of this class include for example AEA N oleoylethanolamine and N palmitoylethanolamine oleamide and N acyltaurines. Oleamide an FAA is structurally related to the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide. Oleamide accumulates in the cerebrospinal fluid during sleep deprivation and induces sleep in animals. It is likely that oleamide interacts with multiple neurotransmitter systems. N acyltaurines also belonging to the class of FAAs have been isolated from the central nervous system and peripheral tissues. Like other biologically active amides in animals the levels of these metabolites are controlled by the activity of FAAH. N Arachidonylserine has also been detected in the brain. It has potent vasodilatory effects amongst other biological effects. At least three other arachidonyl amino acids of aminobutyric acid alanine and asparagine occur naturally and also inhibit pain suggesting that such biomolecules may be integral to pain regulation.

The peroxisome proliferator activated receptors PPARs constitute a family of nuclear receptor proteins that function as transcription factors regulating the expression of genes. PPARs play essential roles in the regulation of cellular differentiation development and metabolism carbohydrate lipid and protein . Ligands for PPARs include fatty acids.

Cannabinoids have broad effects on the central nervous system CNS and influence for example movement memory nociception endocrine regulation thermoregulation sensory perception cognitive functions and mood. Similarly genetic and pharmacological studies have revealed a broad role for endocannabinoid signaling in a variety of physiological processes including neuromodulator release motor learning synaptic plasticity appetite and pain sensation. Overall the effects of cannabinoids and endocannabinoids correlate with the distribution of CB1 one of the most abundant G protein coupled receptors in the central nervous system. Knockout CB1 and CB2 mice confirm the important role of the cannabinoid system and by inference the endocannabinoids in the above physiological responses as well as in mediating opiate addictive behavior learning and immunological responses.

Because of the central role endocannabinoids play in many crucial physiological and biological processes there is a need for methods of modulating the level of endocannabinoids in a subject in need thereof and additionally for example for methods of identifying agents that modulate the level of endocannabinoids.

It has been discovered that fatty acid binding proteins FABPs function as intracellular carriers that shuttle cannabinoids and by extension fatty acid amides FAAs to FAAH where cannabinoids are hydrolyzed and degraded. Further uptake of endocannabinoids and by extension FAAs by the cell and the subsequent hydrolysis of endocannabinoids and by extension FAAs are enhanced by FABPs and inhibiting the interaction of endocannabinoids and by extension FAAs with FABPs reduces endocannabinoid and by extension FAA uptake and hydrolysis.

There are at least nine members of the FABP family which share common sequence motifs but have different patterns of tissue expression and differences in ligand selectivity and affinity for long chain fatty acids. An FABP that is expressed in the CNS means an FABP that is substantially expressed in brain or spinal cord including B FABP FABP7 E FABP FABP5 and H FABP FABP 3 . This is not meant to exclude an FABP that is also expressed outside of the CNS.

Fatty acid amides constitute a subgroup of fatty acids. Endocannabinoids constitute a subgroup of fatty acid amides. AEA and 2 AG are endocannabinoids.

Thus according to the present invention there is provided a method of modulating endocannabinoid function in a subject in need thereof comprising administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates the interaction of the endocannabinoid with a fatty acid binding protein. In a preferred embodiment the agent inhibits the interaction of the endocannabinoid with a fatty acid binding protein. Non exclusive measures of endocannabinoid function include the amount of an endocannabinoid bound to a fatty acid binding protein the amount of an endocannabinoid available to bind to an endocannabinoid receptor and endocannabinoid mediated signaling through an endocannabinoid receptor. In an organism additional non exclusive measures include the level of an endocannabinoid in the central nervous system e.g. in cerebrospinal fluid and measures of neurological function such as mood nociception movement sensory perception and others as described herein.

The phrase subject in need thereof as used herein refers to any organism in need of treatment or requiring preventative therapy to prevent a condition resulting from lower or higher than normal levels of endocannabinoids in the organism with the methods of the invention. The subject may be a plant or an animal. The subject animal includes fish birds or mammals. The subject may be livestock such as cattle swine sheep poultry and horses or pets such as dogs and cats. In an embodiment of invention the subject is a human.

The term effective amount refers to the amount of an agent that is effective in modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject. In a preferred embodiment the agent increases the level of an endocannabinoid by reducing endocannabinoid degradation. In one such embodiment an effective amount of an agent reduces endocannabinoid degradation by at least 20 or at least 50 or at least 80 . In another embodiment an effective amount of an agent increases the level of an endogenous cannabinoid by at least about 25 or at least 50 or at least 70 . In another embodiment an effective amount of an agent raises the level of an endogenous cannabinoid to at least two fold or at least 5 fold or at least 10 fold of the untreated level. In another embodiment the agent reduces the level of an endocannabinoid by increasing endocannabinoid degradation for example by increasing the level of a fatty acid binding protein and or activating binding of an endocannabinoid to an fatty acid binding protein. In one such embodiment an effective amount of an agent increases endocannabinoid degradation by at least 20 or at least 50 or at least 80 . In another embodiment an effective amount of an agent reduces the level of an endogenous cannabinoid by at least about 25 or at least 50 or at least 70 . In another embodiment an effective amount of an agent reduces the level of an endogenous cannabinoid to at least two fold or at least 5 fold or at least 10 fold of the untreated level.

The term endocannabinoid includes any molecule that is produced from within the a subject and that activates cannabinoid receptors. Examples of such receptors are CB1 and CB2. In one embodiment of the invention for example the endocannabinoid is arachidonoyl ethanolamide AEA . In another embodiment of the invention for example the endocannabinoid is 2 arachidonoyl glycerol 2 AG .

The term agent is employed herein to refer to any kind of compound or combination of compounds. In one embodiment of the invention the agent is a small molecule. In another embodiment of the invention the agent is a biological molecule including but not limited to a protein or a peptide or a nucleic acid. In one embodiment the nucleic acid is an interfering RNA. The term interfering RNA is employed herein to refer to small interfering RNAs siRNAs short hairpin RNAs shRNAs microRNAs miRNAs antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes or any RNA based molecule that interferes with the expression of a protein from its corresponding gene. In another embodiment the agent increases cannabinoid binding in a cell by activating cannabinoid binding by an FABP and or increasing the amount of the FABP. In another embodiment of the invention the agent of the present invention is oleic acid. In another embodiment the agent is docosahexaenoic acid. In another embodiment the agent is the compound BMS309403 or a related compound. BMS309403 and related compounds are disclosed in WO 00 59506. BMS309403 is a competitive inhibitor of FABPs with reported ICvalues of 250 nm and 350 nm for FABP3 and FABP5 respectively Furuhashi M. et al. 2008 Nat. Rev. Drug. Discov. 7 489 503 Sulsky R. et al. 2007 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 17 3511 5 . In another embodiment the agent is the compound BMS480404 or a related compound. BMS480404 and related compounds are disclosed in WO 00 043624 and are dual inhibitors of FABP 4 aP2 and k FABP. See also McConnell P. A. et al. 2006 J. Med. Chem. 49 5013 7 .

According to the invention inhibitory polynucleotides may be used to inhibit expression of one or more FABPs Inhibitory polynucleotides are polynucleotides or polynucleotide analogs that are complimentary to a portion of a target gene and reduce or prevent expression of the target gene product e.g. mRNA or protein . Inhibitory polynucleotides are typically greater than 10 bases or base pairs in length and are composed of ribonucleotides or deoxynucleotides or a modified form of either type of nucleotide and may be single and or double stranded. Inhibitory polynucleotides may by modified to increase stability and or enhance delivery of the inhibitory polynucleotide to the cytosol of target cells. Inhibitory polynucleotides include chemically modified polynucleotides. Chemical modification includes changes to the inhibitory polynucleotide backbone replacement of one or more nucleotides with nucleotide analogues and addition of conjugates to the polynucleotide. Thus modifications include 2 O methyl RNA phosphorothioate bonds locked nucleic acids as well as addition of moieties such as cholesterol peptides polyethylene glycol and fatty acids.

Polynucleotide analogs include but are not limited to peptide nucleic acids PNAs and morpholinos. PNAs comprise naturally occurring DNA or RNA bases i.e. adenine thymine cytosine guanine uracil or artificial bases i.e. bromothymine azaadenines azaguanines attached to a peptide backbone through a suitable linker e.g. amide thioamide sulfinamide or sulfonamide linkages . PNAs bind complementary DNA or RNA strands and can be utilized in a manner similar to antisense oligonucleotides to block the translation of specific target mRNA transcripts. PNA oligomers can be prepared according to the method provided by U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 602. U.S. Pat. No. 6 723 560 describes methods for modulating transcription and translation using sense and antisense PNA oligomers respectively. PNAs may be obtained from commercial sources such as Panagene Inc. PNAs are typically about 10 to about 30 subunits in length. The PNAs may also be about 15 to about 25 subunits in length. The PNAs may also be about 14 to about 20 subunits in length. The PNAs may also be about 16 to about 18 subunits in length.

Morpholino oligomers are short chains of about 10 to about 30 morpholino subunits. Morpholinos may also be about 15 to about 25 or about 18 to about 22 subunits long. Each subunit is comprised of a nucleic acid base a morpholine ring and a non ionic phosphorodiamidate intersubunit linkage. Morpholinos do not degrade their RNA targets but instead act via a steric blocking mechanism. Systemic delivery into cells in adult organisms can be accomplished by using covalent conjugates of Morpholino oligos with cell penetrating peptides. An octa guanidinium dendrimer attached to the end of a Morpholino can deliver the modified oligonucleotide called a Vivo Morpholino from the blood to the cytosol. Moulton J. D. Jiang S. 2009 . Gene Knockdowns in Adult Animals PPMOs and Vivo Morpholinos. 14 3 1304 23 Morcos P. A. Li Y. F. Jiang S. 2008 . Vivo Morpholinos A non peptide transporter delivers Morpholinos into a wide array of mouse tissues. 45 6 616 26 .

An inhibitory polynucleotide is complimentary or partially complimentary to the target gene mRNA and the complimentary or partially complimentary region of the target gene mRNA may be in the in the 5 untranslated region UTR 3 UTR and or in the coding region. An inhibitory polynucleotide may induce RNA interference RNAi which is a mechanism of gene specific silencing that employs sequence specific small interfering RNA siRNA to target and degrade the target gene specific mRNA prior to translation. siRNAs are double stranded RNA molecules typically about 19 to about 23 nucleotides in length and having a 2 nucleotide overhang at the 3 end of each strand. Methods for designing specific siRNAs based on an mRNA sequence are well known in the art see e.g. Brummelkamp T. R. et al. 2002 A system for stable expression of short interfering RNAs in mammalian cells. 19 550 553 Ui Tei K. et al. 2004 Guidelines for the selection of highly effective siRNA sequences for mammalian and chick RNA interference. 32 936 948 Hohjoh H. 2004 Enhancement of RNAi activity by improved siRNA duplexes. 557 193 8 and Yuan B. et al. siRNA Selection Server an automated siRNA oligonucleotide prediction server. 2004 32 W130 134 . In addition design algorithms are available on the websites of many commercial vendors that synthesize siRNAs including Ambion Clontech Dharmacon GenScript and Qiagen.

Small interfering RNAs can be expressed in the form of short hairpin loop polynucleotides known as short hairpin RNAs shRNAs comprising the siRNA sequence of interest and a hairpin loop segment. Short hairpin RNAs are available through commercial vendors which often provide online algorithms useful for designing shRNAs e.g. Clontech Invitrogen ExpressOn Gene Link and BD Biosciences . When expressed in a cell shRNA is rapidly processed by intracellular machinery into siRNA. Expression of shRNAs may be accomplished by ligating the DNA sequence corresponding to the shRNA into an expression construct for example the cloning site of a double stranded RNA dsRNA expression vector. Expression may be driven by RNA polymerase III promoters. Expression vectors may be plasmid vectors including retrovirus lentivirus adenovirus and adeno associated virus based systems. Vectors for expression of shRNAs are commercially available from vendors such as Clontech Invitrogen Millipore Gene Therapy Systems Ambion and Stratagene. Methods for DNA and RNA manipulations including ligation and purification are well known to those skilled in the art See e.g. Sambrook J. and Russel D. W. 2001 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Third Edition. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology 2001 John Wiley Sons Inc. .

Delivery of inhibitory polynucleotides may be local i.e. to the site of the cell mass or affected tissue or systemic i.e. delivery to the circulatory or lymphatic systems . Local injection avoids many of the difficulties associated with intravenous administration such as rapid elimination. In addition helper molecules for example cationic lipids or polymers or physical methods for example electroporation sonoporation or hydrodynamic pressure can be employed to facilitate intracellular entrance of the inhibitory polynucleotide. In addition local production of inhibitory polynucleotides such as siRNA by genes encoding for shRNA can ensure prolonged levels of the dsRNA in the target cells.

In addition the inhibitory polynucleotide may be complexed with cationic lipids cholesterol peptides polyethyleneimine and or condensing polymers or packaged in a liposome nanoparticle virus bacteria or in a donor cell expressing one or more connexin proteins. In one embodiment the donor cell is an immune privileged cell such as a MSC. see e.g. Xie F. Y. et al. 2006 . Harnessing in vivo siRNA delivery for drug discovery and therapeutic development. 11 67 73 Oliveira S. et al. 2006 Targeted Delivery of siRNA. 2006 1 9 Whitehead K. A. et al. 2009 Knocking Down Barriers Advances in siRNA Delivery. 8 129 138 . The inhibitory polynucleotide may be targeted to the cell mass by associating the inhibitory polynucleotide to a targeting molecule. The targeting molecule may be linked to the inhibitory polynucleotide by a covalent bond or may be associated ionically or by integration into the targeting mechanism e.g. as part of the liposome nanoparticle or expressed on the surface of a donor cell . Targeting molecules include antibodies and cell penetrating peptides.

Nonlimiting examples of interfering RNAs useful for inhibiting expression of FABPs include but are not limited to accuggaagcuaguggacagcaagaauuu SEQ ID NO 1 agcaugaccaagccuaccacaaucaucga SEQ ID NO 2 agcaccuucaagaacacagagaucagcuu SEQ ID NO 3 and gcagaugacaggaaggucaaguccauugu SEQ ID NO 4 for FAB3 gccacaguucagcagcuggaaggaagaug SEQ ID NO 5 cugguggacagcaaaggcuuugaugaaua SEQ ID NO 6 aguuugaagaaaccacagcugauggcaga SEQ ID NO 7 and gaacaaugucaccuguacucggaucuaug SEQ ID NO 8 for FABP5 and ugguggaggcuuucugugcuaccuggaag SEQ ID NO 9 aggacucucagcacauucaagaacacgga SEQ ID NO 10 aacuguaagucuguuguuagccuggaugg SEQ ID NO 11 and ugguugcuguucgccacuaugagaaggca SEQ ID NO 12 for FABP7. A single interfering RNA may be selected for a single gene locus or a set of interfering RNAs for that locus can be used. Such interfering RNAs are readily commercially available in the form or siRNAs shRNAs and in vectors for transient and stable transfection. Naked or modified siRNAs can be stable for extended periods for example up to two weeks in cerebrospinal fluid CSF .

In the context of this invention the term small molecule refers to small organic compounds such as heterocycles peptides saccharides steroids and the like. The small molecule modulators preferably have a molecular weight of less than about 1500 Daltons and more preferably less than about 500 Daltons. The compounds may be modified to enhance efficacy stability pharmaceutical compatibility and the like. Candidate modulator compounds from libraries of synthetic or natural compounds can be screened. Synthetic compound libraries are commercially available from a number of companies including Maybridge Chemical Co. Trevillet Cornwall UK Comgenex Princeton N.J. Brandon Associates Merrimack N.H. and Microsource New Milford Conn. . Combinatorial libraries are available or can be prepared according to known synthetic techniques. Alternatively libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial fungal plant and animal extracts are available from e.g. Pan Laboratories Bothell Wash. or MycoSearch NC or are readily producible by methods well known in the art. Additionally natural and synthetically produced libraries and compounds may be further modified through conventional chemical and biochemical techniques.

The phrase modulating the level is employed herein to refer to increasing the level or decreasing the level. The level of a molecule for example the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject may be the concentration of the molecule in a sample volume. Accordingly increasing the level or decreasing the level may mean increasing the concentration or decreasing the concentration.

The phrase inhibits the interaction is employed herein to refer to any disruption partial or total of the natural effect of FABPs on the metabolism of endocannabinoids.

Endocannabinoids in a subject or elsewhere may be detected and their amount and concentration measured by any method commonly known in the art. This includes for example methods involving mass spectrometry high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC combined gas chromatography mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry see for example De Marchi et al. 2 5 2003 . The modulation of the level of a compound for example the increase or decrease of the concentration of an endocannabinoid in a subject may be measured by detecting the compound in samples taken at different times. Endocannabinoids can be measured in samples taken from for example cerebrospinal fluid or blood.

In one embodiment of the present invention the agent used for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject modulates binding of the endocannabinoid to the fatty acid binding protein. The binding of endocannabinoids to proteins like fatty acid binding proteins for example may be detected and quantified according to methods commonly known in the art see for example Glatz et al. 259 4295 4300 1984 and Morrow Martin 24 324 331 1983 . Accordingly examples of such methods may include or involve incubation of FABPs with radio labeled endocannabinoids in the presence or absence of compounds to be tested with respect to their effect on the binding or interaction between the FABPs and endocannabinoids. Examples of such methods may further include the subsequent separation of FABP bound and unbound endocannabinoids and quantification of endocannabinoids bound to FABPs in the presence or in the absence of test compounds.

In another embodiment the agent used for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject modulates the interaction of an FABP that facilitates transport of the endocannabinoid with an enzyme that degrades the endocannabinoid. Such enzymes may be membrane bound or cytoplasmic including but not limited to fatty acid amide hydrolase FAAH and cytoplasmic monoacylglycerol lipase MAGL . Further any of these approaches my used in vivo ex vivo or in vitro.

In one embodiment of the present invention the agent used for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject modulates expression of the fatty acid binding protein. The expression of genes like those encoding fatty acid binding proteins for example may be detected and quantified according to methods commonly known in the art see for example Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Third Edition Cold Spring Harbor Press 2001 . Examples of such methods include or involve quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR real time PCR Northern blotting Western blotting immunohistochemistry fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS . For example expression of a FABP can be ascertained by detecting the FABP protein the level of mRNA encoding the protein or expression of a hybrid reporter gene comprising regulatory elements of the FABP and encoding a product that facilitates detection including but not limited to a fluorescent protein. Further any of these approaches my used in connection with an in vivo ex vivo or in vitro experimental setup.

The term fatty acid binding protein includes for example fatty acid binding protein 1 FABP 1 fatty acid binding protein 2 FABP 2 fatty acid binding protein 3 FABP 3 fatty acid binding protein 4 FABP 4 fatty acid binding protein 5 FABP 5 fatty acid binding protein 6 FABP 6 fatty acid binding protein 7 FABP 7 fatty acid binding protein 8 FABP 8 fatty acid binding protein 9 FABP 9 fatty acid binding protein 10 FABP 10 fatty acid binding protein 11 FABP 11 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 1 FABP 5 like 1 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 2 FABP 5 like 2 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 3 FABP 5 like 3 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 4 FABP 5 like 4 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 5 FABP 5 like 5 fatty acid binding protein 5 like 6 FABP 5 like 6 and fatty acid binding protein 5 like 7 FABP 5 like 7 see Chmurzynska et al. J Appl Genet 47 39 48 2006 .

In one embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 3. In another embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 5. In still another embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 7.

In one embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 5 and the endocannabinoid is AEA. In another embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 7 and the endocannabinoid is AEA. In still another embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 3 and the endocannabinoid is 2 AG.

In an embodiment of the present invention the fatty acid binding protein is FABP 5 the endocannabinoid is AEA and the agent is the compound BMS309403 or the compound BMS 480404.

The dosage of an agent that is administered to a subject in need thereof may vary depending on the reason for use and the individual subject. The dosage may be adjusted based on the subject s weight the age and health of the subject and tolerance for the compound or composition.

In the context of the present invention the term neurological disorder includes any medical condition that involves the nervous system.

The amount of therapeutic agent to be used depends on many factors including but not limited to the identity of the FABP target the FABP ligand e.g. the fatty acid that binds to the FABP the specificity of the therapeutic agent for the FABP and the extent to which it is desired to inhibit the binding of the FABP to the FABP ligand. For example the 40 mg kg of bodyweight day of compound BMS309403 has been used to inhibit FABP4 function in mice Furuhashi et al. Nature 447 7147 959 65 2007 .

Other dosages may include about 2 mg kg of bodyweight day about 5 mg kg of bodyweight day about 10 mg kg of bodyweight day about 15 mg kg of bodyweight day about 20 mg kg of bodyweight day about 25 mg kg of bodyweight day about 30 mg kg of bodyweight day about 40 mg kg of bodyweight day about 50 mg kg of bodyweight day about 60 mg kg of bodyweight day about 70 mg kg of bodyweight day about 80 mg kg of bodyweight day about 90 mg kg of bodyweight day about 100 mg kg of bodyweight day about 125 mg kg of bodyweight day about 150 mg kg of bodyweight day about 175 mg kg of bodyweight day about 200 mg kg of bodyweight day about 250 mg kg of bodyweight day about 300 mg kg of bodyweight day about 350 mg kg of bodyweight day about 400 mg kg of bodyweight day about 500 mg kg of bodyweight day about 600 mg kg of bodyweight day about 700 mg kg of bodyweight day about 800 mg kg of bodyweight day and about 900 mg kg of bodyweight day. Routine experimentation will determine the appropriate value for each patient by monitoring the compound s effect on serum endocannabinoid levels which can be frequently and easily monitored. The agent can be administered once or multiple times per day. The frequency of administration may vary from a single dose per day to multiple doses per day. Preferred routes of administration include oral intravenous and intraperitoneal but other forms of administration may be chosen as well.

The effective amount of an agent according to the present invention may be administered along any of the routes commonly known in the art. This includes for example 1 oral administration 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injection 3 topical administration or 4 intravaginal or intrarectal administration 5 sublingual or buccal administration 6 ocular administration 7 transdermal administration 8 nasal administration and 9 administration directly to the central nervous system CNS .

The effective amount of an agent according to the present invention may be formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The active ingredient and excipient s may be formulated into compositions and dosage forms according to methods known in the art. These compositions and dosage forms may be specially formulated for administration in solid or liquid form including those adapted for the following 1 oral administration for example tablets capsules powders granules pastes for application to the tongue aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions drenches or syrups 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injection as for example a sterile solution or suspension 3 topical application for example as a cream ointment or spray applied to the skin lungs or mucous membranes or 4 intravaginally or intrarectally for example as a pessary cream or foam 5 sublingually or buccally 6 ocularly 7 transdermally or 8 nasally.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of the subject with toxicity irritation allergic response or other problems or complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable excipient as used herein refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent carrier manufacturing aid e.g. lubricant talc magnesium calcium or zinc stearate or stearic acid solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the therapeutic compound for administration to the subject. Each excipient should be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the subject. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate gelatin talc waxes oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such as ethylene glycol and propylene glycol polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents water isotonic saline pH buffered solutions and other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations. If desired certain sweetening and or flavoring and or coloring agents may be added. Other suitable excipients can be found in standard pharmaceutical texts e.g. in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 19Ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1995 .

Excipients are added to the composition for a variety of purposes. Diluents increase the bulk of a solid pharmaceutical composition and may make a pharmaceutical dosage form containing the composition easier for the patient and caregiver to handle. Diluents for solid compositions include for example microcrystalline cellulose e.g. Avicel microfine cellulose lactose starch pregelatinized starch calcium carbonate calcium sulfate sugar dextrates dextrin dextrose dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate tribasic calcium phosphate kaolin magnesium carbonate magnesium oxide maltodextrin mannitol polymethacrylates e.g. Eudragit potassium chloride powdered cellulose sodium chloride sorbitol and talc.

Solid pharmaceutical compositions that are compacted into a dosage form such as a tablet may include excipients whose functions include helping to bind the active ingredient and other excipients together after compression. Binders for solid pharmaceutical compositions include acacia alginic acid carbomer e.g. carbopol carboxymethylcellulose sodium dextrin ethyl cellulose gelatin guar gum hydrogenated vegetable oil hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose e.g. Klucel hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose e.g. Methocel liquid glucose magnesium aluminum silicate maltodextrin methylcellulose polymethacrylates povidone e.g. Kollidon Plasdone pregelatinized starch sodium alginate and starch.

The dissolution rate of a compacted solid pharmaceutical composition in the subject s stomach may be increased by the addition of a disintegrant to the composition. Disintegrants include alginic acid carboxymethylcellulose calcium carboxymethylcellulose sodium e.g. Ac Di Sol Primellose colloidal silicon dioxide croscarmellose sodium crospovidone e.g. Kollidon Polyplasdone guar gum magnesium aluminum silicate methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose polacrilin potassium powdered cellulose pregelatinized starch sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate e.g. Explotab and starch.

Glidants can be added to improve the flowability of a non compacted solid composition and to improve the accuracy of dosing. Excipients that may function as glidants include colloidal silicon dioxide magnesium trisilicate powdered cellulose starch talc and tribasic calcium phosphate.

When a dosage form such as a tablet is made by the compaction of a powdered composition the composition is subjected to pressure from a punch and dye. Some excipients and active ingredients have a tendency to adhere to the surfaces of the punch and dye which can cause the product to have pitting and other surface irregularities. A lubricant can be added to the composition to reduce adhesion and ease the release of the product from the dye. Lubricants include magnesium stearate calcium stearate glyceryl monostearate glyceryl palmitostearate hydrogenated castor oil hydrogenated vegetable oil mineral oil polyethylene glycol sodium benzoate sodium lauryl sulfate sodium stearyl fumarate stearic acid talc and zinc stearate.

In liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention the modulator of a eukaryotic pathogen s adenylyl cyclase and any other solid excipients are dissolved or suspended in a liquid carrier such as water water for injection vegetable oil alcohol polyethylene glycol propylene glycol or glycerin.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions may contain emulsifying agents to disperse uniformly throughout the composition an active ingredient or other excipient that is not soluble in the liquid carrier. Emulsifying agents that may be useful in liquid compositions of the present invention include for example gelatin egg yolk casein cholesterol acacia tragacanth chondrus pectin methyl cellulose carbomer cetostearyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may also contain a viscosity enhancing agent to improve the mouth feel of the product and or coat the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. Such agents include acacia alginic acid bentonite carbomer carboxymethylcellulose calcium or sodium cetostearyl alcohol methyl cellulose ethylcellulose gelatin guar gum hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose maltodextrin polyvinyl alcohol povidone propylene carbonate propylene glycol alginate sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate starch tragacanth and xanthan gum.

Sweetening agents such as sorbitol saccharin sodium saccharin sucrose aspartame fructose mannitol and invert sugar may be added to improve the taste. Flavoring agents and flavor enhancers may make the dosage form more palatable to the patient. Common flavoring agents and flavor enhancers for pharmaceutical products that may be included in the composition of the present invention include maltol vanillin ethyl vanillin menthol citric acid fumaric acid ethyl maltol and tartaric acid.

Preservatives and chelating agents such as alcohol sodium benzoate butylated hydroxy toluene butylated hydroxyanisole and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid may be added at levels safe for ingestion to improve storage stability.

According to the present invention a liquid composition may also contain a buffer such as gluconic acid lactic acid citric acid or acetic acid sodium gluconate sodium lactate sodium citrate or sodium acetate. Selection of excipients and the amounts used may be readily determined by the formulation scientist based upon experience and consideration of standard procedures and reference works in the field.

Solid and liquid compositions may also be dyed using any pharmaceutically acceptable colorant to improve their appearance and or facilitate patient identification of the product and unit dosage level.

The dosage form of the present invention may be a capsule containing the composition for example a powdered or granulated solid composition of the invention within either a hard or soft shell. The shell may be made from gelatin and optionally contain a plasticizer such as glycerin and sorbitol and an opacifying agent or colorant.

A composition for tableting or capsule filling may be prepared by wet granulation. In wet granulation some or all of the active ingredients and excipients in powder form are blended and then further mixed in the presence of a liquid typically water that causes the powders to clump into granules. The granulate is screened and or milled dried and then screened and or milled to the desired particle size. The granulate may then be tableted or other excipients may be added prior to tableting such as a glidant and or a lubricant.

A tableting composition may be prepared conventionally by dry blending. For example the blended composition of the actives and excipients may be compacted into a slug or a sheet and then comminuted into compacted granules. The compacted granules may subsequently be compressed into a tablet.

As an alternative to dry granulation a blended composition may be compressed directly into a compacted dosage form using direct compression techniques. Direct compression produces a more uniform tablet without granules. Excipients that are particularly well suited for direct compression tableting include microcrystalline cellulose spray dried lactose dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and colloidal silica. The proper use of these and other excipients in direct compression tableting is known to those in the art with experience and skill in particular formulation challenges of direct compression tableting.

A capsule filling may include any of the aforementioned blends and granulates that were described with reference to tableting however they are not subjected to a final tableting step.

In the context of the present invention the effective amount of the agent modulating the level of an endocannabinoid may be administered alone or in combination with one or more of other therapeutic agents. In a combination therapy the effective amount of the agent modulating the level of an endocannabinoid may be administered before during or after commencing therapy with another agent as well as any combination thereof i.e. before and during before and after during and after or before during and after commencing the additional therapy.

According to the present invention there is provided a method of identifying an agent for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate binding of the endocannabinoid with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein. Preferably the fatty acid binding protein is one or more of FABP3 5 and 7. According to the invention modulating binding to an intracellular fatty acid binding protein is accomplished by modulating the amount of a fatty acid binding protein available to interact with the endocannabinoid or by modulating the binding interaction itself. The amount of a fatty acid binding protein or the binding of an endocannabinoid with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein may be detected and quantified according to methods disclosed herein as well as method otherwise commonly known in the art. The mechanism by which the agent modulates the interaction is not limited. For example the agent may bind to the endocannabinoid or the FABP. In an embodiment of the invention the agent binds to an FABP with an affinity of at least about 1000 nM or at least about 500 nM or at least about 250 nM or at least about 100 nM or at least about 50 nM or at least about 10 nM or at least about 5 nM or at least about 2 nM. In an embodiment of the invention the agent has a higher affinity for FABP3 5 or 7 than for other FABPs. In an embodiment of the invention the agent selectively inhibits binding of the endocannabinoid to the FABP. For example the agent inhibits binding of the endocannabinoid to the FABP with an ICthat is lower than the ICof inhibition of binding of an endogenous fatty acid to an FABP that is expressed elsewhere but not substantially expressed in the CNS. Such FABPs that are not substantially expressed in the CNS include FABP1 2 4 6 8 and 9.

In yet another embodiment wherein the FABP is expressed in neural tissue and elsewhere the agent inhibits endocannabinoid binding to the FABP e.g. in neural tissue and binding of another endogenous fatty acid to the FABP i.e. in non neural tissue . In one such embodiment the ICfor inhibition of endocannabinoid binding to the FABP by the agent is lower than the ICfor inhibition of binding of an endogenous fatty acid present in non neural tissue to the FABP. In another such embodiment inhibition of binding of the endocannabinoid to the FABP reduces endocannabinoid function while inhibition of binding of the endogenous fatty acid present in non neural tissue to the FABP is also reduced but not enough to substantially effect the function of the fatty acid present in non neural tissue.

In one embodiment the present invention provides for identifying a modulator of endocannabinoid function comprising contacting in vitro a FABP expressed in the CNS with a solution comprising a test agent under conditions suitable for binding of an FABP ligand to the FABP and measuring the amount of one or more of the bound test agent or bound FABP i.e. the test agent FABP complex the unbound FABP and the unbound test agent. As discussed above the FABP used in the method can be FABP3 FABP5 or FABP7 as well as fragments mutants or derivatives of the foregoing so long as they are capable of binding an endocannabinoid. To determine the binding affinity of test agent and the FABP binding is measured multiple times using different concentrations of the test agent or the FABP. Binding of the test agent to the FABP can be compared with binding of a natural ligand of the FABP such as AEA 2 AG docosahexaenoic acid or oleic acid. The method can be performed entirely in the liquid phase using for example reagents that exhibit fluorescence quenching when bound or the binding interaction can be determined on a solid support.

In another embodiment of the invention a method for identifying a modulator of endocannabinoid function is provided which comprises contacting in vitro a FABP expressed in the CNS with a solution comprising a test agent and a natural or artificial ligand of the FABP under conditions suitable for binding of the FABP and the FABP ligand and measuring the amount of one or more of the test agent FABP complex the FABP ligand FABP complex the unbound test agent and the unbound ligand. A lower level of bound FABP ligand in the presence of the test reagent is correlated with an ability of the test agent to inhibit ligand FABP interaction and thus increase endocannabinoid function.

In one non limiting example a fatty acid binding protein e.g. FABP5 or a fatty acid binding protein ligand e.g. AEA is detectably labeled. In one embodiment the label is a fluorescent label and fluorescence quenching associated with ligand receptor binding can be determined. In another embodiment the ligand of the fatty acid binding protein is radiolabeled and binding or inhibition of the ligand to a fatty acid binding protein is determined.

The invention also provides a method for identifying a modulator of the interaction between an FABP expressed in the CNS and an enzyme that degrades an endocannabinoid that binds the FABP thus identifying a modulator of endocannabinoid function. The method comprises contacting in vitro a FABP expressed in the CNS an endocannabinoid an enzyme that degrades the endocannabinoid and a test agent. A reduction in the degradation of the endocannabinoid in the presence of the test agent is correlated with an ability of the test agent to increase endocannabinoid function. To confirm that the test agent modulates the interaction of the FABP and the degradative enzyme e.g. FABP modulated diffusion of an endocannabinoid to the degradative enzyme and is not an direct inhibitor of the degradative enzyme itself it may be desired to also contact the endocannabinoid and the degradative enzyme with the test agent.

Of particular interest are FABPs expressed in the CNS including FABP3 FABP5 and FABP7. According to the invention FABPs or fatty acid amide binding derivatives of the FABPs can be used to identify endocannabinoid modulators. FABP derivatives include FABP fragments mutants fusion proteins and chemically modified derivatives. The FABPs may be modified with a detectable label such as an enzymatic fluorescent isotopic or affinity label to allow for immobilization or detection of the protein.

According to the invention three dimensional structural information from an FABP can be used in structure based drug design. Structure based drug design refers to the use of computer simulation to predict a conformation of a peptide polypeptide protein or conformational interaction between a peptide or polypeptide and a therapeutic compound. For example generally for a protein to effectively interact with a therapeutic compound it is necessary that the three dimensional structure of the therapeutic compound assume a compatible conformation that allows the compound to bind to the protein in such a manner that a desired result is obtained upon binding. Further knowledge of the three dimensional structure of a complex of an FABP with a ligand and particularly the structural coordinates of atoms of a ligand and its binding site on the FABP enables a skilled artisan to design a therapeutic compound having such a compatible conformation.

Three dimensional structures of numerous FABPs with and without bound ligand are known in the art. See e.g. Furuhashi et al. 2008 Nat Rev Drug Discov. 7 489 503. Structural coordinates of pertinent fatty acid binding proteins include the following PDB data sets 

The three dimensional models are useful for screening designing and or modifying inhibitor candidates in silico. Virtual libraries of compounds can be screened with the assistance of a computer. The compounds thus identified can be synthesized and further assayed for the ability to inhibit binding of a FABP with a ligand of the FABP. Another way to evaluate binding interactions of a putative inhibitor with an FABP is by NMR or X ray crystallography.

Test compounds can be pharmacologic agents already known in the art or can be compounds previously unknown to have pharmacological activity. The compounds can be naturally occurring or designed in the laboratory. Test compounds can be obtained using combinatorial libraries including but not limited to solid phase and solution libraries of small molecules and biological molecules.

In one aspect of the invention the agent that is effective of inhibiting the interaction of an endocannabinoid with a fatty acid binding protein may be a small molecule. In this context the term small molecule refers to small organic compounds such as heterocycles peptides saccharides steroids and the like. The small molecule modulators preferably have a molecular weight of less than about 1500 Daltons and more preferably less than about 500 Daltons. The compounds may be modified to enhance efficacy stability pharmaceutical compatibility and the like. Candidate inhibitor compounds can be screened from libraries of synthetic or natural compounds. Synthetic compound libraries are commercially available from a number of companies including Maybridge Chemical Co. Trevillet Cornwall UK Comgenex Princeton N.J. Brandon Associates Merrimack N.H. and Microsource New Milford Conn. . Usually atomic coordinates of the compounds in the libraries are also available and can be used in virtual screens. Combinatorial libraries are available or can be prepared according to known synthetic techniques. Alternatively libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial fungal plant and animal extracts are available from e.g. Pan Laboratories Bothell Wash. or MycoSearch NC or are readily producible by methods well known in the art. Additionally natural and synthetically produced libraries and compounds may be further modified through conventional chemical and biochemical techniques.

Useful biological agents such as polypeptides or antibodies or antibody fragments can also be identified by screening of libraries as is known in the art. Such polypeptides are generally 30 amino acids or less and can be for example from 4 to 20 amino acids or from 5 to 15 amino acids or from 7 to 10 amino acids. The structure of the polypeptides can be constrained for example by disulfide bonds between included cysteine residues and can be cyclic. Antibody fragments include but are not limited to Fv single chain Fv scFv Fab F ab single domain antibodies intrabodies and other artificial antibody like binding proteins.

Other types of libraries may also be employed for example any sort of synthetic polymers that can be screened and optionally their structure or sequence determined. Numerous methods have been devised for generation of chemical diversity and mass screening of libraries. To simplify identification of library elements of interest many libraries have the feature that synthesis steps are encoded. For example in phage display the displayed peptide is encoded in the genome encapsulated by the phage particle. Amino acid sequences of peptides identified by screening procedures are easily determined by sequencing a small predetermined part of the genome.

In another example it has been demonstrated that peptides can be generated in numbers several orders of magnitude greater than by conventional one at a time methods by synthesis on polyethylene rods or pins arranged for example in a microtiter plate format. The pin technology is representative of techniques that generate libraries of single compounds in a spatially differentiated manner. An alternative approach to rapidly prepare large mixtures of compounds is the split pool approach e.g. Houghten R. A. 1985 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82 5131 5135 where a solid support material e.g. beads is physically segregated into equal portions for coupling to each of the individual initial reactants. This affords uniform coupling since competition between reactants is eliminated. The individual polymers are combined in a single vessel for washing and deprotection and then divided again into individual portions for the next coupling. Using this approach a complete set of possible molecular combinations is rapidly prepared in approximately equimolar amounts. Coincident with coupling reactions identifier tags can be attached to the solid support material. The structure of the molecule on any bead identified through screening is obtained by decoding the identifier tags. Numerous methods of tagging the beads have now been reported.

Inhibitors further include polymers of peptide like molecules and libraries of such molecules can be screened in the manner of antibodies and peptides. Non limiting examples of peptide like molecules include peptides composed partially or completely of D amino acids and peptoids. Peptoid libraries are a collection of N substituted glycines as peptoid monomers which are assembled in a modular fashion. Zuckermann R. N. et al 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 2678 2685 . The structures of the resulting compounds are unique display unique binding properties and incorporate the important functionalities of peptides in a novel backbone. Furthermore studies suggest this class of compounds is resistant to enzymatic breakdown.

In one aspect of the invention the agent that inhibits the interaction of an endocannabinoid with a FABP may be an aptamer which are oligonucleic acid molecules that bind a specific target molecule. They can be synthesized specifically or selected from a pool using various screening methods known in the art for example a yeast two hybrid system.

In binding and inhibition assays either the test compound or the FABP can be labeled with a detectable label. The label can be fluorescent chemiluminescent or radioisotopic. Examples of enzymatic labels include horseradish peroxidase and alkaline phosphatase. Alternatively binding of a test compound to a FABP can be detected or measured using technology that directly senses specific interaction without labels. One example is bimolecular interaction analysis BIA which is available commercially e.g. BIAcore .

The invention also provides a cellular assay for identifying a modulator of endocannabinoid function that binds to an FABP and modulates binding of the FABP to an endocannabinoid. The method can be used to identify an activator or inhibitor of endocannabinoid function. In one embodiment an FABP such as for example FABP 3 FABP 5 or FABP 7 is expressed at a higher level in a test cell relative to a control cell in which it is expressed at a lower level or not at all. The test cell and the control cell are contacted with an endocannabinoid and degradation of the endocannabinoid is monitored. Test substances that increase degradation of the endocannabinoid in the test cell to a greater extent that in the control cell are activators of the FABP and activators of endocannabinoid function in a cell. Test substances that decrease degradation of the endocannabinoid in the test cell to a greater extent that in the control cell are inhibitors of the FABP and inhibitors of endocannabinoid function in a cell.

According to the present invention there is further provided a method of identifying an agent for modulating the level of an endocannabinoid in a subject comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate expression of an intracellular fatty acid binding protein. As set forth above the expression of genes like those encoding fatty acid binding proteins for example may be detected and quantified according to methods commonly known in the art see for example Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Third Edition Cold Spring Harbor Press 2001 . Examples of such methods include or involve quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR real time PCR Northern blotting Western blotting immunohistochemistry fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS . Further any of these approaches may be used in connection with an in vivo ex vivo or in vitro experimental setup. Examples of such methods also include the procedures and methods set forth for example in Examples 7 and 11 in and elsewhere herein. Examples of GenBank accession numbers of individual FABPs are as follows FABP 1 NM001443 FABP 2 NM000134 FABP 3 NM004102 FABP 4 NM001442 FABP 5 NM001444 FABP 6 NM001040442 FABP 7 NM001446 FABP 8 NM002677 FABP 9 NM001080526.

Compounds can be further characterized in cellular assays that measure uptake and hydrolysis of endocannabinoids. For example cell lines that express FAAH e.g. N18TG2 mouse neuroblastoma C6 mouse glioma or cells transfected with FAAH can be preincubated with an inhibitor of an expressed FABP and radiolabeled ligand e.g. anandamide added. See for example Kaczocha et al. 2006 281 14 9066 75 . Optionally FAAH activity may be determined to confirm that the agent is not an FAAH inhibitor. An assay of FAAH activity is provided by Glaser et al. 2003 100 4269 4274.

According to the present invention there is further provided a method of identifying an agent for treatment or amelioration of a neurological disorder comprising testing the agent for its ability to modulate the interaction of an endocannabinoid or FAA with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein. The interaction of an endocannabinoid or FAA with an intracellular fatty acid binding protein may be detected and quantified according to methods disclosed herein and other commonly known in the art. The physiological effect of the agent can be confirmed by a test or assay designed to evaluate endocannabinoid function in a subject. Examples of such methods are designed to evaluate movement memory mood appetite nociception endocrine regulation thermoregulation sensory perception and cognitive functions. Non limiting examples include tail immersion pain see Cravatt et al. 2001 98 9371 6 and paw edema inflammation tests see Wise et al. 2008 Neuropharmacology. 54 181 8 .

The invention provides a kit useful for identifying a substance that inhibits binding of a ligand to an FABP expressed in the CNS. The kit comprises an FABP expressed in the CNS or a fatty acid amide binding fragment or variant or derivative of the FABP or a fusion protein comprising all or part of the FABP. In one embodiment the kit includes a container or solid support for immobilizing the FABP. In an embodiment of the invention the kit further comprises a ligand of the FABP which is used as a control or standard. In another embodiment of the invention the FABP ligand in the kit is used in a competitive inhibition assay. In an embodiment of the invention the ligand is a fatty acid amide including but not limited to a fatty acid amide that functions in the CNS. Such fatty acids include endocannabinoids such as AEA or 2 AG or oleamide. In an embodiment of the invention the ligand is the compound BMS309403 or the compound BMS480404. In a further embodiment the kit includes a compound that inhibits binding of the ligand to the FABP. The inhibitor is particularly useful as control and or for comparison to test substances. For example when the ligand is an endocannabinoid e.g. AEA the binding inhibitor can be BMS309403. In an embodiment of the invention the FABP and or the ligand is conjugated to a reporter moiety including but not limited to a radiolabel a fluorescence label and enzyme or an immunologically detectable label. Typically the kit will contain or be packaged with instructions for use as described herein.

Detailed descriptions of conventional methods discussed herein such as those employed in the analysis of proteins gene expression light microscopy bacterial culture mammalian cell culture and the like can be obtained from numerous publications such as Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press. 1989 Current Protocols in Microbiology Wiley InterScience Current Protocols in Cell Biology Wiley InterScience and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Wiley InterScience . All references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The following examples further illustrate the invention but should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention in any way.

FAAH variants with distinct subcellular localizations were designed to explore putative trafficking mechanisms that may deliver AEA to intracellular FAAH. The rationale for this is as follows if AEA primarily utilizes a directional mechanism for internalization e.g. endocytosis then AEA would be preferentially delivered to a specific target intracellular organelle. However if AEA trafficking to FAAH involves a binding protein its intracellular transport should be unaffected by the subcellular localization of FAAH.

COS 7 cells do not express FAAH and are therefore suitable for FAAH re localization studies. Rat FAAH was fused to eGFP at its C terminus . The N terminal transmembrane TM helix of FAAH residues 1 29 is dispensable for activity and was removed to allow the generation of other TM FAAH eGFP fusion proteins. To localize FAAH to outer mitochondrial membranes or the Golgi apparatus TM FAAH eGFP was respectively fused at its N terminus to the mitochondrial outer membrane targeting sequence from TOM20 or the Golgi resident protein Grasp65.

Stable cell lines expressing these fusion proteins were generated and similar expression levels were confirmed by western blotting and activity assays and C . Wild type FAAH eGFP COS7 FAAH eGFP localized to the endoplasmic reticulum ER and in agreement with a previous study mainly co localized with an ER marker. TOM TMFAAH eGFP and GRASP TMFAAH eGFP were confined to the mitochondria and Golgi apparatus respectively . Protease protection experiments confirmed that all FAAH variants occupied the cytoplasmic face of membranes . Therefore the cytosol represents the sole barrier for AEA delivery from the plasma membrane to FAAH.

AEA uptake and hydrolysis assays determined whether re localization of FAAH to these organelles affected AEA inactivation. These assays tracked the cellular uptake of C AEA and its subsequent breakdown into C ethanolamine by FAAH. AEA uptake is coupled to its hydrolysis by FAAH which maintains an outward inward concentration gradient that increases AEA accumulation in the steady state. Therefore if AEA delivery to FAAH is reduced when FAAH expression is confined to the Golgi apparatus or mitochondria the reduced hydrolysis of AEA will lower the AEA gradient and diminish its uptake. Conversely enhanced AEA delivery to FAAH will result in increased hydrolysis of AEA and elevated accumulation.

The uptake and hydrolysis of C AEA was similar between COS7 FAAH eGFP TOM TMFAAH eGFP and GRASP TMFAAH eGFP cells at 5 min . Since this time point may allow for AEA to be taken up through one mechanism and subsequently redistributed intracellularly by others these experiments were repeated using shorter time points. Similar to the results at 5 min C AEA uptake and hydrolysis were unchanged between the three cell lines at 10 sec . Identical results were obtained when the intracellular hydrolysis of C AEA following uptake was examined at 3 sec with hydrolysis being similar in cells expressing all FAAH variants and significantly lower in cells lacking FAAH . These data suggest that AEA uptake and its subsequent delivery from the plasma membrane to FAAH occurs through an extremely rapid and organelle non selective mechanism which indicates intracellular transport by a carrier protein.

The results presented thus far suggest that the transmembrane transport and subsequent intracellular delivery of AEA to FAAH is rapid. The hydrophobicity of AEA estimated Log P value of 5.1 suggests that it is unlikely to diffuse efficiently from the plasma membrane to intracellular membranes containing FAAH unaided. Three members of the FABP family are expressed in brain FABP3 FABP5 and FABP7. To determine whether these FABPs can potentiate AEA uptake and hydrolysis COS7 FAAH eGFP cells were transfected with each FABP and AEA uptake and metabolism analyzed. Overexpression of FABP5 and FABP7 but not FABP3 significantly enhanced the uptake of C AEA by 32 and 35 respectively compared to vector transfected cells . AEA hydrolysis was proportionally and significantly elevated. Western blotting confirmed that all three FABPs were successfully expressed in COS 7 cells . The hydrolysis of C AEA was similar in homogenates of vector transfected cells and in cells transfected with the FABPs confirming that the overexpression of FABPs did not artifactually influence AEA uptake by modulating FAAH expression and or activity.

To confirm that the function of FABPs as AEA carriers is independent of cell type these experiments were repeated in mouse neuroblastoma N18TG2 cells. These cells express CBreceptors FAAH and can take up and hydrolyze AEA. Similar to the results in COS 7 cells overexpression of FABP5 and FABP7 significantly enhanced the uptake of C AEA by 36 and 42 respectively . AEA hydrolysis was also proportionally and significantly elevated. Similar to COS 7 cells western blotting confirmed that N18TG2 cells transfected with FABPs overexpressed these proteins . To confirm that these proteins constitute the endogenous repertoire of FABPs in N18TG2 cells RT PCR analysis was performed in N18TG2 cells and mouse brain as a control. As expected and in accordance with previous data FABP3 FABP5 and FABP7 were expressed in brain . Similarly N18TG2 cells expressed FABP3 and FABP5 but not FABP7 . The lack of FABP7 expression in N18TG2 cells is consistent with the observation that FABP7 expression is confined to glial cells in the brain. Collectively these data indicate that FABPs function as intracellular carriers for AEA with FABP5 and FABP7 being more efficacious than FABP3.

Competitive FABP ligands inhibitors were used to confirm the role of endogenous FABPs in cytosolic trafficking of AEA to FAAH. COS7 FAAH eGFP and N18TG2 cells were incubated with the FABP ligand oleic acid 100 M and C AEA uptake measured following a 5 min incubation. Oleic acid reduced the uptake of C AEA in COS7 FAAH eGFP and in N18TG2 cells by 25 and 53 respectively . Since oleic acid lacks selectivity for FABPs the experiments were repeated using the novel FABP inhibitor BMS309403. BMS309403 is a competitive inhibitor of FABPs with reported ICvalues of 250 and 350 nM for FABP3 and FABP5 respectively. Treatment of COS7 FAAH eGFP or N18TG2 cells with 20 100 M BMS309403 resulted in a dose dependent reduction in C AEA uptake with a maximal inhibition of 48 and 57 respectively and C . AEA hydrolysis was proportionally and significantly reduced. BMS309403 also reduced the intracellular hydrolysis of C AEA following uptake at 3 sec in both cell types and E without affecting the levels of cell associated C AEA data not shown . This confirms that BMS309403 attenuates the rapid intracellular trafficking of AEA to FAAH but not its delivery from the media to cells. The potency of BMS309403 was preserved in cells that were pre treated with this inhibitor but subsequently incubated with C AEA alone data not shown confirming that its ability to reduce AEA uptake stems from the inhibition of a cellular target s rather than from artifactual competition for BSA binding in the incubation media. BMS309403 and oleic acid did not inhibit FAAH activity over the concentration range used in this study suggesting that their effects upon C AEA uptake and metabolism result from inhibition of intracellular transport rather than FAAH.

Results are expressed as means SEM. Statistical significance was evaluated using two tailed unpaired t tests against vector transfected or vehicle treated controls.

The expression of fatty acid binding proteins FABPs is abrogated by RNA interference mediated knockdown. Commercially available short hairpin RNAs shRNA targeting mouse and human FABP3 FABP5 or FABP7 are transiently or stably transfected into the neuronal cell lines N18TG2 mouse neuroblastoma and SH SY5Y human neuroblastoma . The degree of FABP knockdown is determined using RT PCR and immunoblotting with antibodies against each FABP. Once knockdowns are established changes in AEA uptake and hydrolysis are examined. COS 7 cells may not be usable in this test since the genome of the African green monkey from which they are derived has not been sequenced. 

COS 7 and N18TG2 cells were grown in DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 100 U ml penicillin streptomycin 2 mM L glutamine and 1 mM sodium pyruvate in a humidified incubator containing 95 air and 5 CO. Transfections were carried out using Lipofectamine 2000 Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. according to the manufacturer s instructions. For stable cell selection forty eight hours after transfection cells were expanded in medium containing 750 g ml geneticin Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Four weeks later stable cells were subjected to flow cytometry at the Flow Cytometry Core Facility in Stony Brook University and cells expressing identical levels of the indicated FAAH eGFP fusion proteins were collected and expanded.

Rat FAAH was PCR amplified and subcloned into the eGFP N1 plasmid Clonetech using XhoI and KpnI and the following primers forward 5 TATAGCCACCATGGTGCTGAGCGAAGTGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 13 and reverse 5 TATATGACGATGGCTGCTTTTGAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 14 . Underlined nucleotides represent restriction sites while those in bold represent a Kozak consensus sequence. TM FAAH was subcloned into eGFP N1 using XhoI and KpnI and the following primers forward 5 TATATCGATGGACCGGGCGCCAG 3 SEQ ID NO 15 and reverse 5 GATATATGACGATGGCTGCTTTTGAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 16 . To localize FAAH to mitochondrial outer membranes TOM20 residues 1 33 was fused to the N terminus of TM FAAH eGFP using NheI and XhoI and the following primers forward 5 GATATACACCATGGTGGGCCGGAACAGC 3 SEQ ID NO 17 and reverse 5 GATATAGTTGGGGTCACTCCGCCTTT 3 SEQ ID NO 18 . To localize FAAH to the Golgi apparatus Grasp65 was fused to the N terminus of TM FAAH eGFP using NheI and EcoRI. This TM FAAH eGFP was fused to eGFP N1 using EcoRI and KpnI rather than XhoI to facilitate subcloning of Grasp65. The following primers were used forward 5 GATATAGCCACCATGGGGCTAGGGGCAAGC 3 SEQ ID NO 19 and reverse 5 GATATACAGCCCAGGCTCTGGATCTGG 3 SEQ ID NO 20 . FABP3 FABP5 and FABP7 were cloned from mouse brain RNA using PCR and the following primers FABP3 forward 5 GATATAGCCACCATGGCGGACGCCTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID NO 21 and reverse 5 GATATATCACGCCTCCTTCTCATAAGTC 3 SEQ ID NO 22 FABP5 forward 5 GATATAGCCACCATGGCCAGCCTTAAGGATC 3 SEQ ID NO 23 and reverse 5 GATATATCATTGCACCTTCTCATAGAC 3 SEQ ID NO 24 and FABP7 forward 5 GATAGCCACCATGGTAGATGCTTTCTGCGCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 25 and reverse 5 GATATACTATGCCTTTTCATAACAGCGAAC 3 SEQ ID NO 26 . FABP3 and FABP5 were digested with HindIII and XhoI while FABP7 was cut with XhoI and KpnI and inserted into pcDNA4. All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing.

COS 7 cells stably expressing the indicated constructs were plated unto coverslips. To assess mitochondrial localization the cells were treated with 175 nM Mitotracker Red CM HXRos Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. in DMEM 10 FBS for 25 min at 37 C. followed by fixation in 3 paraformaldehyde. For ER and Golgi apparatus co localization studies cells were processed essentially as described. Briefly following fixation cells were permeabilized with 0.2 Triton X 100 at 4 C. for 5 min and treated with rabbit anti calreticulin antibodies 1 200 Affinity Bioreagents Golden Colo. or mouse anti GM130 antibodies 1 100 BD Transduction Labs San Jose Calif. in 5 normal goat serum followed by donkey anti rabbit or donkey anti mouse IgG Alexa Fluor 594 1 800 Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . All images were acquired using a Zeiss LSM 510 META NLO Two Photon Laser Scanning Microscope.

Ten stable cell lines or fifty FABP transfected cells micrograms of protein were run on a 10 SDS PAGE gel. Following transfer to a nitrocellulose membrane at 100V for 25 min the blots were blocked for one hour in 5 non fat dry milk in PBS Tween PBST . The blots were probed with rabbit anti eGFP 1 2000 Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. mouse anti 13 actin 1 10000 1 100000 or mouse anti FABP3 1 100 Abcam Cambridge Mass. rabbit anti FABP5 1 100 or rabbit anti FABP7 1 100 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. antibodies for 1 hour with shaking. The blots were rinsed three times with PBST followed by incubation with goat anti mouse or goat anti rabbit IgG HRP conjugated antibodies Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. for 1 hour. The blots were rinsed three times with PBST developed using the Immun star HRP substrate Bio Rad Hercules Calif. and exposed to film.

COS 7 cells were homogenized by passage through a 26 gauge needle in buffer A 10 mM HEPES NaOH pH 7.5 containing 1 mM EDTA 1.5 mM MgCl 10 mM KCl and 250 mM sucrose . Unbroken cells and nuclei were pelleted by centrifugation at 1000 g for 10 min and the resulting supernatant was subjected to centrifugation at 100 000 g for 60 min at 4 C. The pellet containing membranes was resuspended in buffer B 50 mM Tris pH 8 3 mM CaCl 1.5 mM MgCl 10 mM KCl 100 mM NaCl 250 mM sucrose and treated with 500 g ml proteinase K for 30 min at 37 C. in the presence or absence of 1 Triton X 100 or left untreated. The reactions were quenched by the addition of 20 mM PMSF. Control experiments using Proteinase K pre treated with PMSF revealed near complete inhibition of the enzyme data not shown . The samples were separated by SDS PAGE and visualized by immunoblotting with anti eGFP or anti calreticulin 1 2000 Affinity Bioreagents Golden Colo. antibodies.

FAAH activity assays were performed as previously described. Briefly cell homogenates were incubated with 100 M AEA 0.1 Ci C AEA in Tris HCl pH 9 containing 0.1 BSA. For activity analysis time and total protein were adjusted to maintain substrate conversion at approximately 10 . For inhibitor studies 50 g of COS 7 or 100 g N18TG2 homogenates were pre treated with 100 M oleic acid BMS309403 or vehicle DMSO control for 15 min followed by incubation with C AEA 100 M for 1 or 30 min respectively. Reactions were stopped by the addition of two volumes of 1 1 chloroform methanol and the phases separated by centrifugation. The methanol phase containing C ethanolamine was sampled and quantified using a Beckman LS 6500 scintillation counter.

Cells were plated at 90 confluency in 35 mm dishes washed twice in DMEM and preincubated with the desired pharmacological compounds or vehicle controls EtOH or DMSO . The cells were washed twice in DMEM and subsequently incubated for 5 min 10 or 3 sec with 750 l C AEA 100 nM that was pre equilibrated for 75 min in medium containing 0.15 BSA. The equilibration step is necessary to avoid uneven distribution of the radiotracer and to ensure that it is stable in solution pre bound to BSA. Less than 1 of AEA was hydrolyzed during this pre equilibration step data not shown . Following the incubation 750 l of ice cold DMEM 0.15 BSA was added to the plates the media separated from cells which were then washed with DMEM 0.15 BSA to remove non specifically bound AEA. The cells were scraped three times with 400 l of ice cold 2 mM EDTA in PBS and chloroform methanol 1 1 added to the media and cells and the phases separated by centrifugation. The resulting aqueous containing C ethanolamine and organic containing intact C AEA phases were counted by liquid scintillation counting. C AEA uptake was determined by summing the production of C ethanolamine in the media and cells with intact cellular C AEA. Hydrolysis of C AEA was quantified by production of C ethanolamine in the media and cells. Blanks consisting of either untransfected COS 7 cells or N18TG2 cells treated with 100 nM of the FAAH inhibitor URB597 were subtracted from all conditions.

One microgram of RNA extracted from mouse brain or N18TG2 cells using the RNeasy mini kit Qiagen Valencia Calif. was subjected to cDNA synthesis using the Superscript III first strand synthesis kit Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . The resulting cDNAs were subjected to PCR using primers specific for FABP3 FABP5 FABP7 or actin. The following primers were used. For FABP3 forward 5 CATCGAGAAGAACGGGGATA 3 SEQ ID NO 27 and reverse 5 TGCCATGAGTGAGAGTCAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 28 FABP5 forward 5 CAAAACCGAGAGCACAGTGA 3 SEQ ID NO 29 and reverse 5 CACGATCATCTTCCCATCCT 3 SEQ ID NO 30 FABP7 forward 5 AGTGGGAAACGTGACCAAAC 3 SEQ ID NO 31 and 5 TTTCTTTGCCATCCCACTTC 3 SEQ ID NO 32 and actin forward 5 AGATGACCCAGATCATGTTTGA 3 SEQ ID NO 33 and reverse 5 CACAGCTTCTCCTTAATGTCA 3 SEQ ID NO 34 . The following cycling conditions were used denaturation at 94 C. for 30 sec annealing at 58 C. for 30 sec and extension at 72 C. for 30 sec for a total of 30 cycles. The resulting products were visualized on an agarose gel.

