---

title: Operating system based event verification
abstract: A system and method for tracking beacon execution using event verification capability of an operating system. Displaying targeted advertisements during content viewing and web browsing and tracking the rendered and displayed advertisements for payment based on completion of viewing using means for keeping count, with verifiable IDs, of beacon execution using the operating system capability to verify application activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047618&OS=09047618&RS=09047618
owner: Goldspot Media, Inc.
number: 09047618
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100806
---
The invention relates to targeted advertising. More specifically the invention relates to a system for trustworthy tracking of rendered and displayed advertisements for payment based on completion of viewing.

Targeted and focused advertising is a way to reach people directly with items of interest to them. The wide spread use of mobile handheld display devices MHDDs like cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs in conjunction with stationary display devices DDs have made the rendering and execution of content including the targeted advertisements a very complex process. Since the MHDDs can be used to view preloaded content even when they are disconnected from a network targeted advertisements are also pre stored on the MHDDs to be rendered and displayed when the selected content is viewed on the MHDDs.

Typically payment for content and the advertisements used in the content is based on the number of times the content and the associated advertisement is viewed by the customer. This payment model necessitates tracking the content and viewing the content to ensure that the content and advertisements are effectively presented in a predefined fashion and hence are eligible for payment. According to the prior art this is done by the use of beacons attached to the content. Using beacons the tracking of the rendering and of the display of the content is explained in terms of the content. The systems for tracking the viewing of content are explained using MHDD as the basis as viewing of the content on DDs form a simpler subset of that on the MHDD.

The use of beacon execution counts on the web browser is not a very trustworthy indication of the rendering and display of the content and advertisements. This is due to the fact that it is possible to invisibly encapsulate beacons and add them to the content . As a result a larger than actual count may be produced during rendering of a content without really displaying the content multiple times. Similarly it is possible to make beacons inactive during content display such that the beacon execution count that is provided to the tracking server is less than the number of times the content is actually rendered and displayed.

The invention relates to display of targeted advertisements during content viewing and web browsing and especially to trustworthy tracking of rendered and displayed advertisements for payment based on completion of viewing.

The method of using the capability of operating systems wherein an application can ask the Operating system to verify an applicable activity within the system to provide a count of execution of beacons embedded in the content.

The method and system for enabling a trust worthy means for keeping count with verifiable IDs of beacon execution during content viewing using the operating system capability to verify application activity.

As explained above in the discussion of the use of beacon execution counts on the web browser is not a very trustworthy indication of the rendering and display of the content and advertisements. This is due to the fact that it is possible to invisibly encapsulate beacons and add them to the content . As a result a larger than actual count may be produced during rendering of a content without really displaying the content multiple times. Similarly it is possible to make beacons inactive during content display such that the beacon execution count that is provided to the tracking server is less than the number of times the content is actually rendered and displayed.

Hence it would be advantageous if a fully trustable means for generation of the count of the content rendering by execution of beacons may be established and further provided to a tracking server to enable a reliable payment criteria.

Today targeted advertisements are displayed during browsing the web or viewing content. On display devices DDs which may be mobile handheld display devices MHDDs the advertisements and content for viewing are downloaded and stored enabling these advertisements and content to be displayed even when the MHDD has no connection to the internet. Payment is made only for viewed content and the associated viewed advertisements. Today a method based on count of completed viewings using embedded tracking beacons which are typically small scripts executed on the browser is used for tracking this. This is an un trustworthy system as simulated beacon execution and beacon elimination are both possible on the browser.

A new method of tracking the beacon execution using event verification capability of an operating system is disclosed as a trustable alternate to browser based beacon execution. The execution counts are sent to a tracking server during connected time to enable compilation and payment.

Operating systems related operations are a well understood and trusted. Hence in order to get an accurate and trusted measure of the content and advertisement display it is better if the capabilities of the operating system can be used. In operating systems an application can ask the operating system to verify an applicable activity within the system. This capability is used to confirm the execution of the content and the advertisements. This capability is used with a unique library and an application programming interface API in the disclosed verifiable and trustable implementation to confirm the number of executions of a specific functionality in a verifiable manner. This capability can be applied to the execution of beacons and to provide a verifiable count to a registered tracking server with caller ID and event ID both of which ensure the correctness of the event execution. The operating system can store the execution count information on the MHDD if the connection to the server via the network is unavailable and download the information when connection is established in an authenticated manner. The communication between the tracking server and the MHDD can be enabled using any suitable method of authentication available. Here again the system explanation is provided based on the content being rendered and displayed on MHDDs as rendering and displaying on DDs form a simpler sub set.

The principles of the invention or part thereof are implemented as hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Moreover the software is preferably implemented as an application program tangibly embodied on a program storage unit or non transitory computer readable medium or a non transitory machine readable storage medium that can be in a form of a digital circuit an analogy circuit a magnetic medium or combination thereof. The application program may be uploaded to and executed by a machine comprising any suitable architecture. Preferably the machine is implemented on a computer or communication platform having hardware such as one or more central processing units CPUs a memory and input output interfaces. The platform may also include one or more operating systems and microinstruction codes. The various processes and functions described herein may be either part of the microinstruction code or part of the application program or any combination thereof which may be executed by a CPU whether or not such computer communication system or processor is explicitly shown. In addition various other peripheral units may be connected to the platform such as an additional data storage unit and a printing unit.

Even though the implementations disclosed and described herein are the preferred ones it is not meant to be limiting. There may be modifications and improvements which may be applicable and are clear to practitioners of the art. There are also many different applications of the trustable verification process which are not enumerated herein. These modifications of the invention not presently described or foreseen may nonetheless represent equivalents thereto which are also covered by this disclosure.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the members features attributes and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Accordingly the disclosure of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following Claims.

