---

title: Systems and methods to control device endpoint behavior using personae and policies
abstract: The creation of multiple personae in mobile devices. Access to personae is controlled based on the persona that is currently active. The creation or existence of different personae helps prevent data leakage or loss, in that any or all of the following characteristics, by way of example, may be manifested: business data and applications are firewalled from applications or other items associated with personal use; connectivity of the device is controlled; resources (such cameras, GPS, other sensors, etc.) on the device are controlled; data are protected even if removable storage or the device itself are lost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08539561&OS=08539561&RS=08539561
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08539561
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100824
---
Generally end devices in mobile enterprise scenarios are either owned by individuals or a business or enterprise and thus are used for business needs using specialized enterprise applications as well as for significant personal needs. This is especially the case with end devices such as smart mobile phones while it is also relevant to other endpoints e.g. laptops tablets internet devices etc. that access virtualized desktops from a network cloud and from similar enterprise services.

An ongoing problem is that such end devices can be compromised in a way that inadvertently permits unauthorized users to gain access to sensitive data and information. For instance given open wireless network interfaces e.g. 802.11 BLUETOOTH external adversaries can probe for vulnerabilities and use these to install rogue programs or to steal data. The installed rogue programs might further steal data cause disruptions in operation and attack other trusted devices.

Data loss is also a concern when a mobile device such as a laptop computer or mobile phone is lost or misplaced. Historically there has not been great effort in alleviating the impact or potential of such problems as typically it is viewed as an end user problem. There have been some conventional efforts at effecting remote data wiping but these solutions require that the device in question be connected to a network for the wipe to occur which highly restricts the usefulness of such an approach.

In summary one aspect of the invention provides a method comprising defining a plurality of personae for a device each persona according variable access responsive to different access criteria applying a policy for each persona each policy defining conditions for the different access criteria implementing a sandbox for each persona based on the policy of each persona according access to device resources responsive to access criteria.

Another aspect of the invention provides an apparatus comprising one or more processors and a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the one or more processors the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to define a plurality of personae for a device each persona according variable access responsive to different access criteria computer readable program code configured to apply a policy for each persona each policy defining conditions for the different access criteria computer readable program code configured to implement a sandbox for each persona based on the policy of each persona computer readable program code configured to accord access to device resources responsive to access criteria.

An additional aspect of the invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to define a plurality of personae for a device each persona according variable access responsive to different access criteria computer readable program code configured to apply a policy for each persona each policy defining conditions for the different access criteria computer readable program code configured to implement a sandbox for each persona based on the policy of each persona computer readable program code configured to accord access to device resources responsive to access criteria.

For a better understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the scope of the claimed embodiments of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments of the invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations in addition to the described exemplary embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the various embodiments of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The description now turns to the figures. The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the figures. The following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain selected exemplary embodiments of the invention as claimed herein.

It should be noted that the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems apparatuses methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of an illustrative embodiment of a computer system . The illustrative embodiment depicted in may be an electronic device such as a laptop or desktop personal computer a mobile smart phone or the like. As is apparent from the description however the embodiments of the invention may be implemented in any appropriately configured device as described herein.

As shown in computer system includes at least one system processor which is coupled to a Read Only Memory ROM and a system memory by a processor bus . System processor which may comprise one of the AMD line of processors produced by AMD Corporation or a processor produced by INTEL Corporation is a general purpose processor that executes boot code stored within ROM at power on and thereafter processes data under the control of an operating system and application software stored in system memory . System processor is coupled via processor bus and host bridge to Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI local bus .

PCI local bus supports the attachment of a number of devices including adapters and bridges. Among these devices is network adapter which interfaces computer system to LAN and graphics adapter which interfaces computer system to display . Communication on PCI local bus is governed by local PCI controller which is in turn coupled to non volatile random access memory NVRAM via memory bus . Local PCI controller can be coupled to additional buses and devices via a second host bridge .

Computer system further includes Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus which is coupled to PCI local bus by ISA bridge . Coupled to ISA bus is an input output I O controller which controls communication between computer system and attached peripheral devices such as a keyboard mouse serial and parallel ports et cetera. A disk controller connects a disk drive with PCI local bus . The USB Bus and USB Controller not shown are part of the Local PCI controller .

The disclosure now turns to . It should be appreciated that the processes arrangements and products broadly illustrated therein can be carried out on or in accordance with essentially any suitable computer system or set of computer systems which may by way of an illustrative and non restrictive example include a system such as that indicated at in . In accordance with an example embodiment most if not all of the process steps components and outputs discussed with respect to can be performed or utilized by way of system processors and system memory such as those indicated respectively at and in whether on a server computer a client computer a node computer in a distributed network or any combination thereof. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the system on which embodiments of the invention is carried out is embodied by a mobile device such as a laptop computer or a mobile phone such as a smart phone with numerous functions analogous or similar to those found on many laptop or desktop computers.

Generally in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention multiple personae are created or involved on a mobile device in that access is controlled based on the persona that is currently active. The concept of a persona will be appreciated further from the ensuing discussion. The creation or existence of different personae helps ensure or prevent data leakage or loss in that any or all of the following characteristics by way of example may be manifested business data and applications are firewalled from applications or other items associated with personal use connectivity of the device is controlled resources such cameras GPS other sensors etc. on the device are controlled data are protected even if removable storage or the device itself are lost.

In the context of mobile phones and other mobile devices applications are typically downloaded or added at install if not already built in. Mobile phone applications are well. In these cases however access of applications is binary in nature i.e. access to the applications is either present or not and the access of application to features of the device e.g. network connections sensors such as accelerometers GPS camera storage devices such as SD cards is similarly binary in nature wherein the state of access is immutable once set. In other words the applications or the access thereto are not modulated by any context or change in context in which the device operates at any given time.

As shown module is configured to enact and manage policies personae sandboxes and access lists each of which are related to one another in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention in a manner now to be described.

Policies created on a system are configured to determine access that is allowed and disallowed in connection with each of different corresponding personae . Thus a first policy Policy 1 at will determine access to a first persona Persona 1 at and a second policy Policy 2 at will determine access to a second persona Persona 2 at etc. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention each policy is individually created via module by an owner or other authorized individual s connected with the corresponding persona .

As touched upon heretofore in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a device can operate in any of the multiple personae wherein each persona maps to a particular context. For instance different personae may include but are not necessarily limited to personal use of the device use of same by a friend or trusted associate use of same for office work use of same in a particular geographic location etc.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention via module there is created in conjunction with each persona a sandbox i.e. a security mechanism for separating running programs in which only predefined or predetermined applications can run network connections be allowed devices be used and data be accessible. In other words each sandbox is configured to assert strictures on different elements available in connection with each persona wherein limited access or a bar to access might be provided with certain programs or applications etc. in accordance with one persona but not another. Thus module essentially contains policy originated information about the sandboxes of the personae and the associated permissions prohibitions and device behaviors associated with each persona .

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention personae are switched based on authentication. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention password based authentication is used but alternatives are possible such as e.g. voice based biometrics. The switch from one persona to another can be automatic upon some trigger event such as an application being invoked or a change in geographic location or by a change in network provider etc.

Indicated at are access criteria corresponding to each persona and sandbox which in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention are stored in module . The access criteria corresponding to each persona can be in the form of specific authorized individuals or groups that are permitted to access the corresponding persona or other criteria such as geographic criteria or criteria based on network provider which determine which persona e will be accessible at a given time or based on certain conditions.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention data made available in accordance with each persona may be encrypted wherein different encryption methods or keys can be used with different personae or in the case of personae where non sensitive data are involved no such encryption need necessarily be employed . In accordance with embodiments of the invention module communicates with a remote authentication server to determine whether a user attempting to access data associated with a persona e.g. via providing a password at a password prompt should indeed be given access. If the authentication server determines that access indeed should be given then a key is dynamically provided back to the module to permit access.

In accordance with a variant embodiment of the invention the access policies or criteria associated with the different personae can be contained in the device and updated periodically via a remote server such as authentication server . However in many cases enterprise user authentication via an authentication server in real time may be preferable e.g. if an employee has changed his her password and such an update may not have yet reached the device. Moreover it may not be feasible to store and update password information on the mobile device and employ all the security mechanisms required to protect such sensitive information.

In order to offer access based on geography or on a network provider access criteria policies can include such information and parameters. The module can then match such parameters with the current location or network provider as determined by any appropriate detection mechanisms within the device e.g. a GPS function . This might thus not need to involve the use of an authentication server .

In accordance with the illustrative and non restrictive example of a module with functions similar to those described is installed in the runtime environment of the phone . An image on the phone here contains two components namely personal and business . The personal component of image is a touch activated field to activate a personal persona which could be related to personal files and applications etc. while the business component of image is a touch activated field to activate a business persona which could be related to business or enterprise related files and applications etc.

In the illustrative and non restrictive example of a storage system manager is provided which is configurable to manage access to different storage media or databases within phone or as may be associated with phone such as a SD secure digital card integrable with phone . An example of a storage system manager is the Enterprise Volume Management System EVMS which is flexible integrated volume management software used to manage storage systems under LINUX . A dedicated element such as a volume daemon may be employed to mount or unmount sensitive data or files. VOLD is an example of such a volume daemon that is used with LINUX . The storage system manager in accordance with the illustrative and non restrictive example of mounts sensitive and encrypted data files as such to provide access to more sensitive data as may be encountered in a business persona.

In accordance with the illustrative and non restrictive example of assuming that the business mode or persona contains more sensitive information destined solely for authorized individuals then an authentication process takes place upon selection of the business persona . Upon successful authentication the remote authentication server returns a key which then prompts storage system manager to mount the sensitive files as just described. Also an intent to switch personae is conveyed by module to other components of phone .

The disclosure now turns to a more detailed discussion of specific embodiments of the invention that may be employed in connection with smart phones or mobile phones.

As the price point for computing comes down cell phones are becoming increasingly more sophisticated. Smartphones typically have multiple network interfaces removable local stores such as SD cards GPS or aGPS functionality cameras accelerometers and in some cases even physiological monitoring sensors. Such smart phones are often used in a multiple modes for instance for both personal and business purposes. Enterprises that allow employees to use the phones in this dual mode need to protect the information and applications on such devices and control their behavior. Broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention are approaches that integrate declarative policies context and OS level device control to enforce security by creating multiple personae for the device.

Generally mid to high end smartphones have become commonplace in corporate settings. The anytime anywhere access to work resources engendered by these devices and wireless networks is of great interest to the company and often also of interest to the employee looking for a flexible work schedule. Employees often use such devices for personal uses as well to avoid having to carry two smartphones. Thus the same smartphone with its features is used in a corporate as well as personal setting has both types of applications or apps and stores both personal and corporate data. This can lead to significant security concerns. Sensitive data can be compromised by making the device behave inappropriately using one of the installed applications or by hacking into the device using its connectivity to public networks. Data can even be compromised by the device being lost or someone stealing the removable storage media or the device itself. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention such issues can be addressed by forcing the device to isolate its functionality and behave differently when being used in different contexts.

Although smartphones are compact and lightweight they are capable of various modes of wireless communication like WIFI BLUETOOTH and infrared have significant computational power approaching 1 GHz and have moderate sized removable local stores such as SD cards. Many phones have cameras. Newer phones also have GPS or aGPS functionality accelerometers and in some cases even physiological monitoring sensors. Specialized devices also have RFID or barcode readers added on and more recently have combined software solutions with cameras to read 2D barcodes. With a variety of such devices on the cell phone applications are emerging that access these functionalities. Application markets and open APIs associated with most major platforms have allowed third parties to write such apps as well. While some platforms restrict these device functionalities to only applications installed on the phone it is expected that applications running in the browser or other elements of the client side web infrastructure would also need access to these device capabilities. Given the somewhat restrictive application distribution model adopted by some providers such as Apple a web based approach is naturally attractive to independent third party application developers. Applications are also developed or adapted by in house corporate IT teams.

The connectivity of these devices has improved considerably and most devices are continuously connected to the Internet via one of the radio interfaces. This continuous connectivity poses various security concerns. This can result in accidental intentional leakage of sensitive enterprise data. Mobile devices also traverse a number of wireless networks making them susceptible to attacks such as bluejacking or other methods to insert malicious code. Thus some capabilities of the device may have to be disabled or restricted in order to protect the data it stores and the enterprise network it connects to as a trusted entity. Government agencies and companies often lease out such devices to their employees which are carried around outside physically secured premises. This makes them vulnerable to theft or loss. This poses a serious security threat given the fact that the device may be carrying sensitive data or having special capabilities which if not revoked can prove damaging to the organization.

There are broadly contemplated herein in accordance with embodiments of the present invention arrangements for firewalling personal data applications from enterprise data applications in order to mitigate the threats posed to the device. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention each persona as understood from the discussion hereinabove has its own sandbox to run and is isolated from other personae. A corresponding policy determines what is permitted within each sandbox. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention there is provided a security mechanism in which the device functions in distinct modes such as in separating personal use from enterprise or business use. While a personal mode allows unrestricted access to wireless interfaces enterprise data storage is not mounted in such a mode in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention. On the other hand in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention enterprise mode allows access only to the organization s intranet via VPN virtual private network while working with the encrypted enterprise data.

For example in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the enterprise may have specified in a policy that device capabilities like 802.11 BLUETOOTH and GPRS general packet radio service are unrestricted while in the personal mode. However if the user wishes to read official business email it requires the device to switch to the enterprise mode. In this mode the policy directs the enforcement mechanisms on the device to disable the cellular radio and BLUETOOTH and limit access via 802.11 interfaces to the enterprise VPN. The device platform is modified to actually enforce the issued policies. The enterprise VPN server is entrusted with the task to verify the login credentials of the user requesting to switch to the enterprise mode and to verify the authenticity of the device before granting network resources to the device. The device authentication is carried out by ensuring that the device is actually running the customized build of the platform distributed by the enterprise.

There is employed in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a declarative policy based approach where the norms or rules of ideal behavior or the boundaries of the sandbox of entities in a variety of environments are described in a machine understandable specification language. These policies describe what an entity can or must do in a certain context and allow the behavior of entities to be modified without affecting the underlying mechanisms and architecture. Along with providing the openness required in these environments this approach also provides greater autonomy as entities can choose whether or not to accept a particular norm.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a policy involves an explicit representation of constraints and rules that govern an agent or system s behavior. As an example a device might not be able to run the email application unless the device is in the enterprise mode and the user specifies a mail specific password. Policies can define what is permitted or prohibited what is preferred of the permitted actions and what obligations must be incurred in order to undertake an action. Such policies when expressed in languages that the other party in an interaction can understand can be used to negotiate permissions where none existed a priori. Semantic web languages such as RDF and OWL prove a natural choice for such languages.

By way of an illustrative and non restrictive example ANDROID is now considered. The ANDROID operating system used by the ANDROID phone is a free open source and fully customizable mobile platform by Google Inc. Menlo Park Cal. and the Open Handset Alliance www. openhandsetalliance.com ANDROID offers a full stack an operating system middleware and key mobile applications. It also contains a set of APIs application programming interfaces that allow third party developers to develop applications. All applications are written using the Java programming language. The application framework provides APIs to all applications Underlying all applications is a set of services and systems providing various functionalities. ANDROID includes a set of C C libraries used by various components of the ANDROID system. These capabilities are exposed to applications through the ANDROID application framework. ANDROID includes a set of core libraries that provides most of the functionality available in the core libraries of the Java programming language. Every ANDROID application runs in its own process with its own instance of the Dalvik virtual machine VM The Dalvik VM relies on the underlying LINUX kernel for core system services such as security memory management process management network stack and driver model.

A service does not have a visual user interface but rather runs in the background for an indefinite period of time. Most core system functions are carried out by services. A broadcast receiver is a component that does nothing but receives and reacts to broadcast announcements. Many broadcasts originate in system code to notify the rest of the system about a change in the state of the system. Services and broadcast receivers are activated by asynchronous messages called intents. These intents name the action being announced making the concerned service handle the state as required.

 ANDROID is a multi process system in which each application and parts of the system runs in its own process. Most security between applications and the system is enforced at the process level through standard LINUX facilities such as user and group IDs that are assigned to applications. Additional finer grained security features are provided through a permission mechanism that enforces restrictions on the specific operations that a particular process can perform. The permissions required by an application are declared statically in that application so they can be known up front at install time and will not change after that.

In the present illustrative and non restrictive example in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention for ANDROID there is considered here an alternate approach that creates the sandbox as a mode similar to built in modes like such as the well known Airplane mode where certain signal transmitting capabilities of a phone are suspended . In accordance with the present example a customized image is built from source while ANDROID system services are employed to disable interfaces at the framework level.

For implementation on an ANDROID platform in accordance with the present example policy is expressed in XML wherein device constraints are directly described. Further certain setup functions are performed during initialization of the device. For instance in accordance with the present example an application is created for the purpose of accepting a user s enterprise login credentials. The user settings interface presents a button to issue the command for switching back and forth between the two modes i.e. personal and enterprise business .

The description now continues with specific reference to which show various configurations of a mobile device i.e. phone . Reference may be made jointly to any or all of these six figures as needed.

In accordance with the present example during the boot process the device reads the enterprise policy from the policy file included as part of the build and configures enterprise mode accordingly. A volume daemon detects the external storage card and stores its configuration and mount point. The device boots up in the personal mode as shown in . On receiving the boot completed intent the mount service on the device unmounts the external storage reserved for the enterprise mode.

The user opens the application for entering enterprise login credentials. These can be either entered dynamically when switching or be saved securely in the system settings see . When the user issues the command for switching the mode the stored enterprise login credentials are sent to the enterprise server or authentication server for validation. The response is checked for a successful login.

An intent is generated to indicate the switch to the new mode and is broadcast to inform the rest of the device . The services corresponding to each of the radio interfaces execute the handler for this intent. The handler decides if the radio interface is sensitive to the enterprise mode as defined by the enterprise policy and enables or disables the corresponding radio based on the mode being reached. The status icons on the user interface are updated to present the current status of various wireless interfaces on the device . The user interface buttons corresponding to each of these radios also handle this intent and enable or disable their interface presence. In accordance with the present example all network connections are disabled when in enterprise mode and only the VPN connection to the enterprise gateway is permitted. This will prevent data leaks on any network path.

The mount service invokes the volume daemon to mount or unmount the external SD storage and update the user interface accordingly. Here the SD storage is mounted for enterprise mode and unmounted it for personal usage. For added security the file system or at least parts of it needed for the enterprise on the SD card would be encrypted. The key instead of being stored locally on the device would be provided by the enterprise gateway via the encrypted VPN channel upon successful authentication.

In accordance with the present example any data stored on the external storage is not secured. Thus in accordance with the present example the external storage is reserved for enterprise data and can be accessed only in the enterprise mode. The external storage in ANDROID is handled by the Volume daemon mentioned heretofore.

In accordance with the present example the user can go back to the personal mode by unselecting the enterprise mode. Here no authentication is done for this reverse switch although it could be easily added if desired. When switching back to the personal mode the radios are enabled and the SD Card is unmounted as seen with device in .

As shown in supplier nodes and client nodes respectively are represented in a network representation. A supplier client relationship is established and a score is assigned to the same corresponding to relationship strength. A score is assigned to a client node the client node score corresponding to a general relationship strength with respect to the supplier nodes in aggregate. The supplier client relationship score is amended after a predetermined time period .

It should be noted that aspects of the invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer device partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be affected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure.

