---

title: System and method for identifying, providing, and presenting content on a mobile device
abstract: The present invention is embodied in a system for synchronizing a mobile device with video output by a video output device. In one embodiment, the system comprises a data reader, a remote control, and a router. The data reader is configured to be connected to a video output device for reading digital codes associated with video or audio signals output by the video output device. The remote control has a user input mechanism and is configured to transmit an activation signal to the data reader after activation of the user input mechanism. The router is configured to be connected to a wide area network for transmitting data from the data reader to a remote data server. The router is also configured to establish a local data connection between the data reader and a mobile device. The data reader, after receiving an activation signal from the remote control, is further configured to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader to the remote data server via the router. Additionally, the data reader, after receiving a request signal from the mobile device, is further configured to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader to the mobile device via the router.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463100&OS=08463100&RS=08463100
owner: Cosmo Research Company Limited
number: 08463100
owner_city: Kowloon
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20100402
---
Priority is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 258 464 filed by lion Kwon Tse Jonathan O. Browne and Joseph F. Rifkin on Nov. 5 2009 and entitled System and Method for Syncing Digital Game Data to Existing DVD Content. This application is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates generally to supplemental content for programs output from video output devices such as digital video disc DVD players cable television converter boxes satellite television set top boxes and digital video recorders. More particularly this invention relates to a system and method for identifying providing and presenting such supplemental content on a mobile device such as a mobile phone.

Over the last thirty years the enormous expansion of cable television channel options plus the advent of consumer electronics devices that enable a viewer to fast forward through commercials has significantly reduced audience program loyalty and the effectiveness of television advertising. Television network revenues have declined as fractured audiences result in lower show ratings.

To offset these declines product placement in television shows has become more commonplace. Product placement however has so far proven to be a largely clumsy interruptive marketing tool. It also fails to provide a way for a consumer to act upon an impulse to buy the placed product. Additionally it does little or nothing to enhance a viewer s engagement with the television show.

Partly in response to these problems television content providers have begun experimenting with interactive television as a way to communicate better with viewers. Interactive content typically requires that a trigger code be embedded into the video stream. When a client device such as a set top box detects the trigger code an interface is displayed on the television. The interface asks a viewer whether the viewer would like to see more information related to the content being viewed. If the viewer wants more information then the viewer selects an acceptance icon that causes the information to be sent to the viewer.

A problem with this approach is that a significant amount of effort is needed to embed the trigger codes into the video stream. Also the interface which appears over other content can be disruptive. Additionally the information sent to the viewer does little or nothing to enhance the viewer s engagement with the television show.

Attempts have been made in the prior art to solve these problems. For example U.S. patent application Publication No. 2004 0268419 to Danker et al. describes systems and methods for broadcasting interactive content without using triggers embedded in the broadcast content. According to the abstract when a viewer sees an item of interest while viewing a program the viewer can initiate a request for information RFI about that item with a single button actuation. When the RFI is entered a client device such as a set top box detects the RFI and transmits RFI data to a server including the channel viewed a time stamp and in at least one implementation a system defined amount of closed captioning data. The RFI data is cross referenced with program time code information programming guide information program information and or advertiser information to determine the context of the RFI i.e. what the user saw that made the user enter the RFI. Information about the item is then sent to the viewer as a system message an e mail message a post or by way of any other delivery mode.

While the systems and methods disclosed in Danker et al. open up the possibility of impulse buying they do little or nothing to enhance a viewer s engagement with a television show. Once the information is sent to the viewer there is no ongoing coordination with the show. Additionally because the system disclosed in Danker et al. relies upon time stamps and closed captioning data instead of embedded trigger codes it cannot determine the context of the RFI with much precision.

Another example is disclosed in U.S. patent application Publication No. 2008 0092164 to Agarwal et al. and U.S. patent application Publication No. 2008 0092201 to Agarwal et al. According to the abstract communication networks and methods are disclosed that provide a supplemental content service. The supplemental content service provides synchronized supplemental content such as media clips to a user over a communication network e.g. a mobile wireless network . A content provider offering a primary content stream e.g. a television program broadcasts the primary content stream to a content receiving device e.g. a television of the user. The content provider also generates supplemental content that is an enhancement to the primary content stream. If the user subscribes to the supplemental content service then the communication network provides the supplemental content to the user through a communication device e.g. a mobile phone that is synchronized with the primary content stream. The user can then experience the supplemental content over the communication device at the same time as experiencing the primary content stream over the content receiving device.

While the system disclosed in Agarwal et al. also opens up the possibility of impulse buying it relies upon time based triggers to coordinate the supplemental content with the primary content stream. As a result the system cannot coordinate the supplemental content with much precision. This limits the ability of the system to enhance a viewer s engagement with a television show. Additionally the system requires that the content provider generate the time based triggers in advance limiting the flexibility of the system.

It should therefore be appreciated that there is a need for a system and method that use supplemental content to enhance a viewer s engagement with a television show or other video output by a video output device while more precisely and flexibly coordinating the supplemental content with the video. The present invention satisfies this and other needs.

The present invention is embodied in a system for synchronizing a mobile device with video output by a video output device. In one embodiment the system comprises a data reader a remote control and a router. The data reader is configured to be connected to a video output device for reading digital codes associated with video or audio signals output by the video output device. The remote control has a user input mechanism and is configured to transmit an activation signal to the data reader after activation of the user input mechanism. The router is configured to be connected to a wide area network for transmitting data from the data reader to a remote data server. The router is also con figured to establish a local data connection between the data reader and a mobile device.

In a particular embodiment the data reader after receiving an activation signal from the remote control is further configured to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader to the remote data server via the router. Additionally the data reader after receiving a request signal from the mobile device is further configured to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader to the mobile device via the router. Each digital code is associated with a video frame or set of video frames in the video signals output by the video output device.

In one embodiment the remote control further comprises a microcontroller unit and an indicator light. The microcontroller unit is configured to receive a supplemental content availability signal indicating that the data reader has detected a video or audio signal for which supplemental content is available. The indicator light is operatively connected to the microcontroller unit and configured to illuminate after the microcontroller unit receives the supplemental content availability signal.

In another embodiment the remote control is implemented on the mobile device. The user input mechanism is a touch screen on the mobile device. The touch screen is configured to display a supplemental content availability indicator after the remote control receives a supplemental content availability signal indicating that the data reader has detected a video or audio signal for which supplemental content is available.

In a further embodiment the data reader is further configured to transmit a supplemental content availability signal to the remote control indicating that the data reader has detected a video or audio signal for which supplemental content is available. The data reader and router can be combined into one unit. The data reader may further be configured to store video identification data compare stored video identification data with digital codes read by the data reader and transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader to the remote data server upon finding a match between the stored video identification data and digital codes read by the data reader.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content identification system. The system comprises a data reading tool a data transmission tool and a user alert tool. The data reading tool is configured to be connected to a video output device for reading digital codes associated with video or audio signals output by the video output device. The data transmission tool is operatively connected to the data reading tool and configured to be connected to a wide area network for transmitting data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reading tool to a remote data server. The user alert tool is operatively connected to the data reading tool and configured to provide a sensory alert after the data reading tool detects a video or audio signal for which supplemental content is available. In a particular embodiment each of the digital codes read by the data reading tool is associated with a video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In one embodiment the system further comprises a video identification data storing tool and a video identification data comparing tool. The video identification data storing tool is configured to be connected to the wide area network to receive video identification data from the remote data server and to store the video identification data in a memory. The video identification data comparing tool is operatively connected to the video identification data storing tool and configured to compare stored video identification data with digital codes read by the data reading tool determine whether any of the digital codes read by the data reading tool matches any of the stored video identification data and forward matched digital codes to the data transmission tool.

In another embodiment the data transmission tool is further configured to establish a local data connection to a mobile device receive a request signal from the mobile device over the local data connection and transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reading tool to the mobile device after receipt of a request signal.

In an further embodiment the system further comprises a user input tool operatively connected to the data transmission tool. The user alert tool is configured to provide the sensory alert by transmitting signals to a mobile device in communication with the user alert tool. The user input tool is also configured to register a user input by receiving an activation signal from the mobile device. The data transmission tool is configured to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reading tool to the remote data server after t le user input tool receives an activation signal from the mobile device.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content provision system. The system comprises an identification tool a retrieval tool and a transmission tool. The identification tool is configured to receive data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by a remote data reader and identify supplemental content based upon the received data. The retrieval tool is operatively connected to the identification tool and configured to retrieve supplemental content identified by the identification tool from a database. The transmission tool is operatively connected to the retrieval tool and configured to transmit supplemental content retrieved by the retrieval tool to a remote mobile device. In a particular embodiment the received data contains information associated with a video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In one embodiment the transmission tool is further configured to transmit video identification data to the remote data reader. The video identification data comprises identifiers to allow the remote data reader to identify particular video programs.

In another embodiment the identification tool is configured to identify supplemental content by comparing the received data with video identification data stored in a database and determining whether any of the received data matches any of the video identification data. The identification tool can be further configured to transmit a supplemental content availability signal to a mobile device if any of the received data matches any of the video identification data.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content presentation system. The system comprises a display a presentation tool a transmission tool and a synchronization tool. The presentation tool is configured to receive supplemental content from a remote data server and present the received supplemental content on the display. The transmission tool is operatively connected to the presentation tool and configured to establish a local data connection to a data reader connected to a video output device and transmit a data request to the data reader. The synchronization tool is operatively connected to the transmission tool and configured to receive data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader and synchronize the presentation of the received supplemental content by the presentation tool with video or audio signals output by the video output device using the received data. In a particular embodiment the received data contains information associated with a video frame or set of video frames in a video program output by the video output device.

In one embodiment the system further comprises a storing tool configured to store the received supplemental content in a database for delayed presentation by the presentation tool. The received supplemental content comprises date and time data specifying a date and time for the delayed presentation.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content identification method. The method comprises the steps of reading digital codes associated with video or audio signals output by a video output device comparing the digital codes with video identification data stored in a memory and determining whether any of the digital codes match any of the video identification data. Each of the digital codes read by the data reading tool is associated with a video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In one embodiment the method further comprises the steps of transmitting data indicative of a matched digital code or matched video identification data to a remote data server and providing a sensory alert if a supplemental content availability signal is received from the remote data server within a predetermined period of time. The step of providing a sensory alert comprises transmitting an alert signal to a mobile device.

In another embodiment the method further comprises the steps of receiving an activation signal from the mobile device and transmitting data indicating receipt of the activation signal to the remote data server.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content provision method. The method comprises the steps of receiving data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by a remote data reader comparing the received data with video identification data stored in a database determining whether any of the received data matches any of the video identification data retrieving supplemental content associated with matched video identification data from a database and transmitting the supplemental content to a remote mobile device. In a particular embodiment the received data contains information associated with a video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of transmitting at least a portion of the video identification data to the remote data reader. The transmitted video identification data comprises identifiers to allow the remote data reader to identify particular video programs.

In another embodiment the method further comprises the step of transmitting a supplemental content availability signal to a mobile device if any of the received data matches any of the video identification data.

The present invention is also embodied in a supplemental content presentation method. The method comprises the steps of receiving supplemental content from a remote data server transmitting a data request to a data reader connected to a video output device receiving data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader and synchronizing the presentation of the supplemental content with video or audio signals output by the video output device using the received data. In a particular embodiment the received data contains information associated with a video frame or set or video frames in a video program output by the video output device.

In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of storing the supplemental content in a database for delayed presentation. The supplemental content comprises date and time data specifying a date and time for the delayed presentation.

Other features and advantages should become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Various modifications to the embodiments are possible and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to these and other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments and applications shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles features and teachings disclosed herein.

With reference now to the illustrative drawings and particularly to there is shown a block diagram of a network system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The system comprises a remote control a data reader a video output device a video display device a router a personal computer a wide area network a data server a media mapping database a supplemental content database a statistics database and a mobile device .

The remote control comprises one or more indicator lights a user input mechanism a radio frequency RF microcontroller unit and an on off mechanism . In one embodiment the remote control is a small keychain style remote control such as shown in . The one or more indicator lights can be electroluminescent lights such as light emitting diodes incandescent lights or other lights configured to emit a soft glow after the data reader detects a video or audio stream for which supplemental content such as supplemental content is available. The user input mechanism can be a simple switch mechanism such as a push button or other suitable mechanism for registering a user input such as a desire to receive supplemental content. The RF microcontroller unit comprises an integrated circuit and an RF transceiver or transmitter receiver configured to 1 receive signals indicating that the data reader has detected a video or audio stream for which supplemental content is available and 2 transmit an activation signal to the data reader after activation of the user input mechanism . The on off mechanism can be a simple switch mechanism such as a push button or sliding switch. In one embodiment the mobile device is configured to perform the functions of the remote control .

The data reader comprises a first RF microcontroller unit a main microcontroller unit and a second RF microcontroller unit . In one embodiment the first RF microcontroller unit comprises an integrated circuit and an RE transceiver or transmitter receiver configured to 1 receive an activation signal from the remote control and 2 transmit signals to the remote control indicating that the data reader has detected a video or audio stream for which supplemental content such as supplemental content is available. The main microcontroller unit comprises an integrated circuit configured to be operatively connected to the video output device and configured to read digital codes embedded in video or audio signals output by the video output device . The main microcontroller unit can be connected to the video output device via an optical or electrical cable . The second RF microcontroller unit comprises an integrated circuit and an RF transceiver or transmitter receiver configured to 1 receive signals from the data server and the mobile device either directly or via the router and 2 transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the main microcontroller unit to the data server and the mobile device either directly or via the router . It will be understood that the data reader may have a transceiver or transmitter receiver for communicating with the mobile device separate from the transceiver or transmitter receiver for communicating with the data sever .

The video output device can be a DVD player a cable television converter box a satellite television set top box a digital video recorder or another device configured to output video or audio signals. In one embodiment the data reader and the video output device are combined into one unit.

The video display device can be a television a computer monitor or another device configured to display a video steam and or play an audio stream. In one embodiment the video output device and video display device are combined into one unit.

The router comprises an RF microcontroller unit . The RF microcontroller unit comprises an integrated circuit and an RF transceiver or transmitter receiver configured to 1 receive data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the main microcontroller unit and 2 transmit signals to the data reader . The router is configured to be connected to the wide area network either directly or via a Universal Serial Bus USB connection to the personal computer for transmitting data received from the data reader to the data server . The router is also configured to establish a local data connection such as a WiFi connection to the mobile device for transmitting data requests from the mobile device to the data reader and for transmitting data received from the data reader to the mobile device .

The personal computer includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 1 receive either directly or via the router data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the main microcontroller unit and 2 transmit the data to the data server via the wide area network . In one embodiment the personal computer further includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 1 receive data from the data server via the wide area network and 2 transmit the data either directly or via the router to the data reader . The personal computer may comprise a computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a human interface device HID application programming interface API and a communication interface such as a modem. The communication interface is coupled to the wide area network .

The wide area network can be the Internet. Although shows only one wide area network it will be understood that multiple wide area networks may be used in the present invention such as the Internet for communications between the personal computer and the data server and a separate cellular network for communications between the data server and the mobile device .

The data server includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 1 receive via the wide area network data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the main microcontroller unit 2 identify supplemental content such as product information advertisement data game content and interactive content based upon the data indicative of the digital code or series of digital codes 3 retrieve the identified supplemental content from the supplemental content database and 4 transmit the identified supplemental content to the mobile device via the wide area network . In one embodiment the data server further includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 5 store data pertaining to the received data and or the identified supplemental content in the statistics database 6 create statistical reports based upon the stored data and 7 transmit additional supplemental content from the supplemental content database to the mobile device via the wide area network based upon the stored data. The data server can be a web server.

The mobile device includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 1 receive the identified supplemental content from the data server via the wide area network and 2 present the identified supplemental content to a user e.g. via a liquid crystal display LCD and audio speaker . In certain embodiments the mobile device can be a mobile phone such as the iPhone a laptop computer or a handheld game console such as the Nintendo DSi or the Sony PSP Go .

In one embodiment the mobile device further comprises hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit a data request to the data reader either directly or via the local data connection and router . Upon receipt of the data request from the mobile device main microcontroller unit in the data reader is configured to read a digital code or series of digital codes embedded in video or audio signals then being output by the video output device and to provide data indicative of the digital code or series of digital codes to the second RF microcontroller unit for transmission to the mobile device either directly or via the router and local data connection . The mobile device further comprises hardware software and or firmware generally operative to receive the data indicative of the digital code or series of digital codes and using the digital code or series of digital codes to synchronize the presentation of received supplemental content with the video or audio signals being output by the video output device . In one embodiment the mobile device further comprises hardware software and or firmware generally operative to store received supplemental content in a mobile device database for later presentation to a user.

In one embodiment each digital code embedded in the video or audio signals output by the video output device is associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames in the video signals. A set of video frames can comprise a single video frame or a plurality of video frames. The digital codes can be AC 3 data. The mobile device comprises hardware software and or firmware generally operative to use the AC 3 data to synchronize the presentation of received supplemental content to the video frame number to which the AC 3 data is associated. More generally the data reader reads Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data and the mobile device use the audio data to synchronize the received supplemental content. Because the AC 3 data is associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames the data server can identify supplemental content such as supplemental content specific to a particular scene in a video program or even to a specific video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In another embodiment the data server further includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit video identification data such as video identification data to the main microcontroller unit in the data reader via the wide area network and second RF microcontroller unit . The video identification data can comprise unique identifiers based upon AC 3 data for particular video programs or even specific broadcasts of a particular video program. The integrated circuit in the main microcontroller unit is further configured to 1 store the video identification data in a data reader database 2 compare stored video identification data with the AC 3 data output by the video output device and 3 forward AC 3 data to the second RF microcontroller unit for transmission to the data server upon finding a match between the stored video identification data and the AC 3 data. The data server includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit a supplemental content availability signal to the remote control or to the mobile device via the wide area network and or the data reader . Upon receipt of the supplemental content availability signal the RF microcontroller unit in the remote control is configured to activate the one or more indicator lights to indicate to a user that the data reader has detected a video or audio stream for which supplemental content such as supplemental content is available.

With reference to there is shown a front elevation view of a mobile device for use in the network system . The mobile device comprises an audio speaker a display and a user input mechanism . In embodiments for which the mobile device is configured to perform the functions of the remote control the display performs the functions of the one or more indicator lights and the user input mechanism performs the functions of the user input mechanism . The display can be an LCD display. The user input mechanism can be a simple switch mechanism such as a push button or other suitable mechanism for registering a user input such as a desire to receive supplemental content. In one embodiment the display is a touch screen configured to register a user input such as a desire to receive supplemental content. In this embodiment upon receipt of a supplemental content availability signal the mobile device is configured to display a pushbutton icon on the display . The mobile device further comprises a transceiver or transmitter receiver configured to transmit an activation signal to the data reader after a user touches the pushbutton icon .

In one embodiment the data server further includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit preloaded supplemental content and or a supplemental content guide to the mobile device via the wide area network . The mobile device further includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to 1 receive the preloaded supplemental content and or supplemental content guide and 2 store the preloaded supplemental content and or supplemental content guide in the mobile device database for later presentation to a user. In one embodiment the preloaded supplemental content and or supplemental content guide comprise date and time data specifying a date and time for presentation on the mobile device of supplemental content in the supplemental content database or preloaded supplemental content in the mobile device database . At the specified date and time the mobile device can be configured either to automatically present the supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content to the user or to display an icon on the display indicating to the user that supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content is available for presentation. Upon selection of the icon the mobile device is configured to present the supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content to the user. The mobile device can use AC 3 data received from the data reader to synchronize the presentation of supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content with video or audio signals being output by the video output device as described above.

With reference to there is shown a block diagram of a computer system . Although shows the remote control data reader and router as comprising one or more microcontrollers each of these devices may be an instance of the computer system . Additionally each of the personal computer data server and mobile device may be an instance of the computer system . In other embodiments each of the remote control data reader router personal computer data server and mobile device may be configured as a software implementation running on one or more computer systems .

The computer system includes a processor such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor or a Motorola Power PC microprocessor coupled to a communications channel . The computer system further includes an input device such as a keyboard or mouse an output device such as a liquid crystal display or a cathode ray tube display a communication interface a data storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and memory such as random access memory RAM each coupled to the communications channel . The communication interface may be coupled to the wide area network and or may perform the functions of one or more of the various RF microcontroller units described above. One skilled in the art will recognize that although the data storage device and memory are shown as different units the data storage device and memory may be parts of the same unit distributed units virtual memory etc. Further it will be appreciated that the term memory herein is intended to cover all data storage media whether permanent or temporary.

The data storage device and or the memory may also store an operating system not shown such as Microsoft Windows 7 Linux the IBM OS 2 operating system the MAC OS or the UNIX operating system. It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention may also be implemented on platforms and operating systems other than those mentioned. An embodiment of the present invention may be written using JAVA C C language and or other programming languages possibly using object oriented programming methodology. The present invention may be built on Ruby on Rails or using Ajax.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the computer system may also include additional components such as network connections additional memory additional processors local area networks LANs and input output lines for transferring information across a hardware channel the Internet or an intranet. One skilled in the art will also recognize that the programs and data may be received by and stored in the computer system in alternative ways. For example a computer readable storage medium CRSM reader such as a magnetic disk drive hard disk drive magneto optical reader or CPU may be coupled to the communications channel for reading a computer readable storage medium CRSM such as a magnetic disk a hard disk a magneto optical disk or RAM. Accordingly the central server may receive programs and or data via the CRSM reader.

With reference to there is shown a block diagram of a supplemental content identification system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content identification system may be implemented on the data reader . The supplemental content identification system includes a video identification data YID storing tool a data reading tool a VID comparing tool data transmission tool a user alert tool and a user input tool .

The VID storing tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to store video identification data such as video identification data received from the data server in the data reader database . The video identification data can comprise unique identifiers to allow the VID comparing tool described below to identify particular video programs or even specific broadcasts of a particular video program based upon AC 3 data for the broadcasts or programs.

The data reading tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to read digital codes embedded in video or audio signals output by the video output device . In one embodiment the data reading tool is operatively connected to the video output device and identifies the Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data embedded in the audio signals as they are output by the video output device .

The VID comparing tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to compare stored video identification data with the digital codes read by the data reading tool and to determine whether there is a match between any of the stored video identification data and the digital codes. Upon finding a match the VID comparing tool is configured to forward the matched digital codes to the data transmission tool .

The data transmission tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reading tool to the data server and or the mobile device either directly or via the router . The data transmission tool can be configured to transmit the data after the VID comparing tool finds a match after receipt of an activation signal from the remote control and or after receipt of a data request from the mobile device . In one embodiment the data transmission tool is configured to transmit data to the mobile device by establishing a WiFi connection to the mobile device .

The user alert tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to provide a sensory alert to a user after the data reading tool has detected a video or audio stream for which supplemental content such as supplemental content is available. The sensory alert may comprise a visual alert such as illuminating an indicator light an audio alert such as emitting a sound and or a tactile alert such as vibration . In one embodiment the user alert tool is configured to provide the alert after the VID comparing tool finds a match. In another embodiment the user alert tool is configured to provide the alert after receipt of a supplemental content availability signal from the data server . The sensory alert may be provided to the user by transmitting signals to a remote control such as remote control or a mobile device such as mobile device in communication with the user alert tool .

The user input tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to register a user input such as a desire to receive supplemental content. In one embodiment the user input tool is configured to register the user input by receiving an activation signal from the remote control or the mobile device . After receipt of the activation signal the data transmission tool transmits AC 3 data read by the data reading tool to the data server and or the mobile device triggering the presentation or storage of supplemental content such as supplemental content on the mobile device.

In one embodiment the supplemental content identification system enables impulse purchasing from television content. In this embodiment the video identification data comprises unique identifiers to allow the VID comparing tool to identify using AC 3 data read by the data reading tool video scenes associated with one or more purchasable products. After the VID comparing tool finds a match the user alert tool is configured provide a sensory alert to a user such as by activating the one or more indicator lights on the remote control or by displaying the pushbutton icon on the display of the mobile device . The user can then register a desire to purchase one or more of the purchasable products by activating the user input mechanism on the remote control by activating the user input mechanism on the mobile device or by touching the display on the mobile device if the display is a touch screen. The user input tool registers the user input and the data transmission tool transmits data that includes the AC 3 data and or unique identifier for the video scene to the data server . The data server then transmits a product information screen for the one or more purchasable products to the mobile device so that the user using the mobile device can complete the purchase transaction.

With reference to there is shown a block diagram of a supplemental content provision system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content provision system may be implemented on the data server . The supplemental content provision system includes a video identification data VID transmission tool a supplemental content identification tool a supplemental content retrieval tool a supplemental content transmission tool a data storing tool and a statistics tool .

The VID transmission tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit video identification data such as video identification data to the data reader via the wide area network . The video identification data can comprise unique identifiers to allow the data reader to identify particular video programs or even specific broadcasts of a particular video program based upon AC 3 data for the broadcasts or programs.

The supplemental content identification tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to receive via the wide area network data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader and to identify supplemental content such as product information advertisement data game content and interactive content based upon the data. In one embodiment the supplemental content identification tool is configured to compare Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data received from the data reader with video identification data such as video identification data stored in the media mapping database and to determine whether there is a match between any of the video identification data and the Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data. Upon finding a match the supplemental content identification tool may be configured to transmit a supplemental content availability signal to the remote control or mobile device via the wide area network and or data reader . Because the AC 3 data is associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames in the video signals output by the video output device the supplemental content identification tool can identify supplemental content such as supplemental content specific to a particular scene in a video program or even to a specific video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

The supplemental content retrieval tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to retrieve supplemental content such as supplemental content identified by the supplemental content identification tool from the supplemental content database . After retrieving the supplemental content the supplemental content retrieval tool is configured to forward the retrieved supplemental content to the supplemental content transmission tool .

The supplemental content transmission tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit retrieved supplemental content to the mobile device via the wide area network . It will be understood that the wide area network may comprise a cellular telephone network.

The data storing tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to store data pertaining to data received from the data reader or to supplemental content identified by the supplemental content identification tool in the statistics database . The data stored in the statistics database may include data pertaining to channel churn e.g. how often a user changes broadcast cable or satellite television channels commercial blow off e.g. how often a user fast forwards through commercial advertisements time shifting e.g. what television programs a user watches on a delayed basis content interest e.g. what products programs and services a user tends to view or interact with and time of day e.g. the time of day that a user views video or audio content most often .

The statistics tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to create statistical reports based upon data stored by the data storing tool and to identify additional supplemental content from the supplemental content database to transmit to the mobile device based upon the data. The additional supplemental content may include preloaded supplemental content and or a supplemental content guide such as supplemental content guide . Thus the statistics tool can reveal valuable information about user behavior and provide additional content that takes advantage of that info illation. By tracking a user s viewing habits the statistics tool can reward a user with additional content targeted to that user s tastes. The statistics tool can also gauge consumer loyalty by tracking viewing habits and a user s interactions with television advertisements. In one embodiment the statistics tool is configured to award coupons discounts points reward cards supplemental content or other rewards to a user based upon stored data. For example the statistics tool may be configured to award rewards if a user views a certain number of television advertisements if a user activates the user input mechanism during a certain number of television advertisements or if a user has a certain viewing profile as determined by the statistics tool .

With reference to there is shown a block diagram of a supplemental content presentation system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content presentation system may be implemented on the mobile device . The supplemental content presentation system includes a supplemental content presentation tool a data request transmission tool a synchronization tool and a supplemental content storing tool .

The supplemental content presentation tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to receive supplemental content such as supplemental content and preloaded supplemental content from the data server via the wide area network and to present the supplemental content to a user e.g. via an LCD display and audio speaker . It will be understood that the wide area network may comprise a cellular telephone network.

The data request transmission tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to transmit a data request to the data reader either directly or via the router . The data request transmission tool can be configured to transmit a data request either at the start of the presentation of supplemental content by the supplemental content presentation tool periodically during the presentation of the supplemental content in response to cues embedded in the supplemental content in response to software timers set by the supplemental content and or in response to a user input to the mobile device during presentation of the supplemental content.

The synchronization tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to receive data indicative of a digital code or series of digital codes read by the data reader and to synchronize the presentation of supplemental content being presented by the supplemental content presentation tool with video or audio signals being output by the video output device . In one embodiment each digital code is an AC 3 code associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames in the video signals. The synchronization tool thus can use the digital codes to precisely synchronize the presentation of the supplemental content with the video signals. In one embodiment the synchronization tool accomplishes this goal by 1 determining when to start presentation of the supplemental content by the supplemental content presentation tool 2 skipping ahead in the supplemental content if the supplemental content has begun to lag the video signals 3 pausing the presentation of the supplemental content if the supplemental content has begun to get ahead of the video signals 4 determining where to restart presentation of the supplemental content if it has been paused to await user input and 5 determining when to end presentation of the supplemental content.

The supplemental content storing tool includes hardware software and or firmware generally operative to store received supplemental content such as preloaded supplemental content and or a supplemental content guide such as supplemental content guide in the mobile device database for later presentation to a user. In one embodiment the preloaded supplemental content and or supplemental content guide comprise date and time data specifying a date and time for presentation of supplemental content by the supplemental content presentation tool . At the specified date and time the supplemental content storing tool can be configured to launch the supplemental content presentation tool to automatically present the supplemental content to the user or to display an icon on the display indicating to the user that supplemental content is available for presentation. Upon selection of the icon the supplemental content presentation tool can be configured to present the supplemental content. The synchronization tool can be configured to use AC 3 data to synchronize the presentation of supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content with video or audio signals being output by the video output device as described above.

In one embodiment the supplemental content presentation system enables the presentation of entertainment applications such as games and pop trivia that are synchronized with video or audio signals being output by the video output device . In this embodiment the supplemental content comprises trivia pops question pops and or micro games timed to be presented while specific scenes are being viewed on the video display device . Trivia pops are fun facts specific to the scene being viewed. Question pops comprise a multiple choice or true or false question specific to the scene being viewed. Micro games are short party style games designed to highlight a scene in a television program and add an element of interactivity for users. The synchronization tool synchronizes the presentation of the trivia pops question pops and micro games by the supplemental content presentation tool with the video or audio signals being output by the video output device . If desired the supplemental content storing tool can save the trivia pops question pops and micro games for after a television program ends.

In one embodiment the supplemental content presentation system enables the presentation of advertising games that are synchronized with video or audio signals being output by the video output device . In this embodiment the supplemental content in the form of an advertising game is timed to be presented while a specific advertisement is being viewed on the video display device . The advertising game allows a television advertiser to provide interactive content to users while promoting the advertiser s products or services. The data request transmission tool is configured to transmit a data request to the data reader at the start of a commercial break in a television program to determine whether an advertisement for which an advertising game is available is being shown on the video display device . Because the data request transmission tool requests data specific to advertisements actually being displayed on the video display device the supplemental content presentation system is configured to account for differences in advertising between different geographic regions and to account for time shifting by the user through the use of a digital video recorder or similar device. The synchronization tool then synchronizes the presentation of the advertising game by the supplemental content presentation tool with the video or audio signals being output by the video output device . If desired the supplemental content storing tool can save the advertising game for after a television program ends.

With reference to there is shown a flowchart of a supplemental content identification method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content identification method starts in step where the video identification data VID storing tool receives video identification data such as video identification data from the data server . In step the VID storing tool stores the video identification data in the data reader database . As described above the video identification data can comprise unique identifiers to allow the VID comparing tool to identify particular video programs or even specific broadcasts of a particular video program based upon AC 3 data for the broadcasts or programs.

In step the data reading tool reads digital codes embedded in video or audio signals output by the video output device . In one embodiment step comprises reading Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data embedded in the audio signals as they are output by the video output device .

In step the VID comparing tool compares the stored video identification data with the digital codes read by the data reading tool . In step the VID comparing tool determines whether there is a match between any of the stored video identification data and the digital codes. If there is not a match then the supplemental content identification method returns to step . If there is a match then in step the data transmission tool transmits data indicative of the matched digital code and or the matched video identification data to the data server either directly or via the router .

In step the user alert tool waits for a predetermined period of time to receive a supplemental content availability signal from the data server . If the user alert tool does not receive a supplemental content availability signal within the predetermined period of time then the supplemental content identification method returns to step . If the user alert tool does receive the supplemental content availability signal within the predetermined period of time then in step the user alert tool provides a sensory alert to a user. In one embodiment step involves transmitting signals to a remote control such as remote control or a mobile device such as mobile device in communication with the user alert tool .

In step the user input tool waits for a predetermined period of time to receive a user input such as a desire to receive supplemental content. In one embodiment step involves waiting to receive an activation signal from the remote control or the mobile device . If the user input tool does not receive the user input within the predetermined period of time then the supplemental content identification method returns to step . If the user input tool does receive the user input within the predetermined period of time then in step the data transmission tool transmits data indicating receipt of the user input to the data server triggering the presentation or storage of supplemental content such as supplemental content on the mobile device.

With reference to there is shown a flowchart of a supplemental content provision method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content provision method starts in step where the video identification data VID transmission tool transmits video identification data such as video identification data to the data reader via the wide area network . As described above the video identification data can comprise unique identifiers to allow the data reader to identify particular video programs or even specific broadcasts of a particular video program based upon AC 3 data for the broadcasts or programs.

In step the supplemental content identification tool receives via the wide area network digital code data from the data reader . In step the supplemental content identification tool searches for supplemental content such as product information advertisement data game content and interactive content based upon the digital code data. In one embodiment step involves comparing Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data received from the data reader with video identification data such as video identification data stored in the media mapping database . In step the supplemental content identification tool determines whether there is any supplemental content that is associated with the digital code data. In one embodiment step involves determining whether there is a match between any of the video identification data and the Dolby Digital AC 3 audio data. If there is not supplemental content associated with the digital code data then the supplemental content provision method returns to step . If there is supplemental content associated with the digital code data then in step the supplemental content identification tool transmits a supplemental content availability signal to the remote control or mobile device via the wide area network and or data reader . In one embodiment because the AC 3 data is associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames in the video signals output by the video output device the supplemental content provision method can be used to identify supplemental content such as supplemental content specific to a particular scene in a video program or even to a specific video frame or set of video frames in a video program.

In step the supplemental content retrieval tool retrieves supplemental content such as supplemental content identified in step from the supplemental content database . In step the supplemental content transmission tool transmits the retrieved supplemental content to the mobile device via the wide area network . As described above it will be understood that the wide area network may comprise a cellular telephone network.

In step the data storing tool stores data pertaining to the data received in step and or to supplemental content identified in step in the statistics database . In one embodiment step involves storing data pertaining to channel churn e.g. how often a user changes broadcast cable or satellite television channels commercial blow off e.g. how often a user fast forwards through commercial advertisements time shifting e.g. what television programs a user watches on a delayed basis content interest e.g. what products programs and services a user tends to view or interact with and time of day e.g. the time of day that a user views video or audio content most often .

In step the statistics tool analyzes the stored data to identify rewards if any for which a user qualifies based upon the user s viewing habits. In one embodiment step involves awarding award coupons discounts points reward cards additional supplemental content such as preloaded supplemental content and or a supplemental content guide such as supplemental content guide based upon the stored data. An award may be made if a user views a certain number of television advertisements if a user activates the user input mechanism during a certain number of television advertisements or if a user has a certain viewing profile as determined in step .

With reference to there is shown a flowchart of a supplemental content presentation method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The supplemental content presentation method starts in step where the supplemental content presentation tool receives supplemental content such as supplemental content or preloaded supplemental content from the data server via the wide area network . As described above it will be understood that the wide area network may comprise a cellular telephone network. In step the data request transmission tool transmits a data request to the data reader either directly or via the router .

In step the synchronization tool receives digital code data from the data reader . In step the synchronization tool using the digital code data determines whether a television program associated with the received supplemental content is then being output by the video output device . If the associated television program is not being output by the video output device then the supplemental content presentation method returns to step . If the associated television program is being output by the video output device then in step the synchronization tool determines where in the supplemental content the presentation of that supplemental content should begin. For example if the video output device is outputting the start of the associated television program then the synchronization tool determines that the presentation of the supplemental content should begin at the start of the supplemental content. If the video output device is outputting the start of the second scene of the associated television program then the synchronization tool determines that the presentation of the supplemental content should begin at that part of the supplemental content associated with the start of the second scene.

In step the supplemental content presentation tool starts the presentation of the supplemental content to a user e.g. via an LCD display and audio speaker based upon the determination made in step . In step the data request transmission tool transmits another data request to the data reader . Step may be performed periodically during the presentation of the supplemental content in response to cues embedded in the supplemental content in response to software timers set by the supplemental content and or in response to a user input during presentation of the supplemental content.

In step the synchronization tool synchronizes the presentation of supplemental content being presented in step with video or audio signals being output by the video output device . As described above each digital code can be an AC 3 code associated with a particular video frame or set of video frames in the video signals. The digital codes thus can be used in step to precisely synchronize the presentation of the supplemental content with the video signals. In one embodiment step involves 1 skipping ahead in the supplemental content if the supplemental content has begun to lag the video signals 2 pausing the presentation of the supplemental content if the supplemental content has begun to get ahead of the video signals 3 determining where to restart presentation of the supplemental content if it has been paused to await user input and 4 determining when to end presentation of the supplemental content. If in step the synchronization tool determines that presentation of the supplemental content should end then the supplemental content presentation method ends. If in step the synchronization tool does not determines that presentation of the supplemental content should end then the supplemental content presentation method returns to step .

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention is by way of example only and other variations and modifications of the above described embodiments and methods are possible in light of the foregoing teaching. The various embodiments set forth herein may be implemented utilizing hardware software or any desired combination thereof. For that matter any type of logic may be utilized which is capable of implementing the various functionality set forth herein. Components may be implemented using a programmed general purpose digital computer using application specific integrated circuits or using a network of interconnected conventional components and circuits. Connections may be wired wireless modem etc. The embodiments described herein are not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. The present invention is limited only by the following claims.

