---

title: Media appliance
abstract: A media appliance comprising: video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen; a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the screen, thereby selecting a viewing activity; a network interface for accessing a packet-based network; a memory storing a communication client application; and processing apparatus, coupled to the memory, network interface and video apparatus, and arranged to execute the communication client application; wherein the client application is configured so as when executed to allow the user to conduct bidirectional communications with other users via the packet-based network, and output notifications to the user of incoming communication events received from other users over the packet-based network; and wherein the client application is further configured to defer one or more of said notifications of incoming communication events received during said viewing activity, determine a delineation in the viewing activity, and automatically output the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08998720&OS=08998720&RS=08998720
owner: Rovi Technologies Corporation
number: 08998720
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100726
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 or 365 to Great Britain Application No. 1005458.3 filed Mar. 31 2010. The entire teachings of the above application are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a media appliance such as a television set or set top box having an embedded processing apparatus for conducting voice or video calls via a packet based network.

Some communication systems allow the user of a terminal such as a personal computer to conduct voice or video calls over a packet based computer network such as the Internet. Such communication systems include voice or video over internet protocol VoIP systems. These systems are beneficial to the user as they are often of significantly lower cost than conventional fixed line or mobile networks. This may particularly be the case for long distance communication. To use a VoIP system the user installs and executes client software on their terminal. The client software sets up the VoIP connections as well as providing other functions such as registration and authentication. In addition to voice communication the client may also set up connections for other communication media such as instant messaging IM SMS messaging file transfer and voicemail.

One type of communication system for packet based communication uses a peer to peer P2P topology. To enable access to a peer to peer system a user executes P2P client software supplied by a P2P software provider on their terminal and registers with the P2P system. When the user registers with the P2P system the client software is provided with a digital certificate from a server. This may be referred to as a user identity certificate UIC . Once the client software has been provided with the certificate then calls or other communication connections can subsequently be set up and routed between end users peers of the P2P system without the further use of a server in the call set up. Instead the client looks up the required IP addresses from information distributed amongst the P2P client software on other end users terminals within the P2P system. That is the address look up list is distributed amongst the peers themselves. Once the IP address of a callee s terminal has thus been determined the caller s P2P client software then exchanges UIC certificates with the callee s P2P client software. The exchange of these digital certificates between users provides proof of the users identities and that they are suitably authorised and authenticated in the P2P system. Therefore the presentation of digital certificates provides trust in the identity of the users.

It is therefore a characteristic of peer to peer communication that once registered the users can set up their own communication routes through the P2P system in at least a partially decentralized manner based on distributed address look up and or the exchange of one or more digital certificates without using a server for those purposes. Further details of an example P2P system are disclosed in WO 2005 008524 and WO 2005 009019.

VoIP or other packet based communications can also be implemented using non P2P systems that do use centralized call set up and or authorization e.g. via server.

A problem with packet based communications is that their accessibility to users is limited. In particular such communications are most commonly accessed using a personal computer. This has the disadvantage that the user must be sufficiently technically competent to download install and operate the packet based communication client software on their personal computer which provides a barrier to the take up. Even when the communication client is installed and executed on a personal computer its use may be limited because personal computers are often not located in a place where the user is either familiar or comfortable with communicating. For example a personal computer is often located in a study which for many users is not the most natural or comfortable environment for making phone calls.

Whilst packet based communication systems can also be accessed via certain mobile devices these generally do not have processing resources or display screens available to offer a full range of features such as video calling.

It would therefore be desirable to make packet based communications more accessible to users. One way to do this would be to run a packet based communication client on a processor embedded in a familiar household media appliance like a television set or set top box for plugging into a television. Embedded in this context means within the casing of the appliance. The ability to integrate an embedded processor into a television set or set top box is known and indeed many modern televisions and boxes already contain a processor for performing at least some of the digital signal processing required to decode and output viewable television signals to the screen.

However the inventors have recognised that one or more potential problems may still exist due to a conflict between the added functionality of the client application and the existing functionality of a conventional television.

Particularly operation of the client is likely to interfere with the user s viewing because incoming calls will be asynchronous with the current state of the television. That is to say the calls are not chosen to be initiated by the user of the television but instead arrive over the packet based network at unpredictable times at the initiation of another remote user and therefore may arrive when the television is occupied with other viewing activities such as viewing television programmes or viewing content from other sources like an external DVD player games console etc.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the screen thereby selecting a viewing activity a network interface for accessing a packet based network a memory storing a communication client application and processing apparatus coupled to the memory network interface and video apparatus and arranged to execute the communication client application wherein the client application is configured so as when executed to allow the user to conduct bidirectional communications with other users via the packet based network and output notifications to the user of incoming communication events received from other users over the packet based network and wherein the client application is further configured to defer one or more of said notifications of incoming communication events received during said viewing activity determine a delineation in the viewing activity and automatically output the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.

Thus the present invention automatically defers notifications of incoming calls or other communications until after the user s viewing activity has finished or has otherwise reached a suitable juncture prompting the user with the notifications once that time has been reached. This means a user will not be unduly disturbed by asynchronous incoming communication events during the viewing activity in question but instead will be prompted about those communication events later at a more suitable time.

In one preferred application of the present invention the media appliance may comprise a television receiver for receiving television signals representing television programmes via a television network the video apparatus may be coupled to the television receiver and operable to output the television signals of selected television programmes from the television receiver to the screen the control device may allow a user to control the output of television signals to the screen thereby selecting a television programme as said viewing activity and the client application may be configured to defer one or more notifications of incoming communication events received during the selected television programme determine a delineation in the selected television programme and automatically output the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.

The television receiver may be arranged to receive the television signals via a broadcasting network.

The media appliance may be one of a television set comprising said screen and a set top box for plugging into a television set.

In preferred embodiments the client application may be configured to determine said delineation based on information received by the television receiver via said television network relating to the selected television programme.

Many modern television signals are transmitted in association with additional programme data in addition to the audio and video of the programme itself . E.g. in digital television broadcasts data on programme timing may be multiplexed along with the audio and video data into a transport stream. This timing information may comprise real time indications of when programmes actually start finish and potentially when they contain commercial breaks and or may comprise nominal schedule information such as an electronic program guide EPG . In embodiments of the present invention this information can advantageously be used to determine the time until which notifications should be postponed.

So for example said information may comprise programme schedule information relating to the selected programme. The client application may comprise an API for accessing the EPG received by the television receiver via said network and may be configured to determine said delineation based on scheduling information from the EPG relating to the selected programme.

In another example the client application may be configured to determine said delineation by detecting a real time indication received by the television receiver via said network relating to the selected television programme and output the one or more notifications to the user upon detecting said indication. Said indication may indicate one of the end of the selected television programme and a break in the selected television programme.

The latter example is particularly preferred since it allows the actual real time end of the program or real time breaks rather than using a nominal schedule. However the former case may also provide a reasonable approximation in absence of a real time signal.

Another possibility is that the client application may be configured to determine said delineation based on information received over the packet based network via the network interface relating to the selected television programme.

The client application may be configured to detect said delineation based on a timer set by the user.

The client application may be configured to detect said delineation based on a user input indicating the delineation.

The notification may take the form of either audible and or on screen notifications. In the case of on screen notifications it is particularly preferable that they should be deferred until after the programme or other viewing activity in question.

Therefore in further embodiments the client application may be configured to output the one or more deferred notifications for display on the screen.

Furthermore the client application may be configured to output the one or more deferred notifications for display on the screen along with an on screen control allowing the user to initiate a return communication with a corresponding other user via the packet based network.

In further embodiments the client application may be configured to return prior to said delineation an automated message to the one or more other users of the one or more incoming communication events received during the viewing activity.

The client application may be configured to use the programme schedule information to supply expected information regarding said delineation and therefore the user s expected availability in said automated message.

Thus it is possible not only to defer a notification until after the programme or other viewing activity in question but also to inform the other remote user about the lack of availability. Particularly desirable is to use the programme schedule information to predict for the benefit of the remote user when the called user will be available again e.g. when his or her television programme will be finished .

In a further embodiment the communication client may comprise a user setting arranged to toggle between a first mode of operation in which notifications of incoming communication events received during the viewing activity are deferred and a second mode of operation in which such notifications are not deferred and are instead output to the user during the viewing activity.

In further applications of the present invention the video apparatus may comprise a gaming system operable to output graphics signals of a video game to the screen the control device may allow a user to control the output of graphics signals to the screen and to thereby select the video game as said viewing activity and the client application may be configured to defer one or more of said notifications of incoming communication events received during the video game determine a delineation in the video game and automatically output the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.

The client application may be configured to detect said delineation when a player dies or loses within the video game.

The video apparatus may comprise an input from an external source of video signals operable to output the video signals to the screen the control device may allow a user to control the output of video signals to the screen and to thereby select the external source for said viewing activity and the client application may be configured to determine said delineation based on a status of the external source.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of operating a media appliance having video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a network interface for accessing a packet based network and a processing apparatus for executing a communication client application the method comprising receiving an input from a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the screen thereby selecting a viewing activity and executing a communication client application on the processing apparatus of the media appliance so as when executed to allow the user to conduct bidirectional communications with other users via the packet based network and so as to output notifications to the user of incoming communication events received from other users over the packet based network wherein the execution of the communication client application further comprises deferring one or more of said notifications of incoming communication events received during said viewing activity determining a delineation in the viewing activity and automatically outputting the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.

In embodiments the client application may be further configured in accordance with any of the above features of the media appliance.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a communication client application for operating a media appliance having video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen and a network interface for accessing a packet based network the communication client application comprising code embodied on a computer readable medium and configured so as when executed on an embedded processor of the media appliance to receive an input from a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the screen thereby selecting a viewing activity enable the user to conduct bidirectional communications with other users via the packet based network output notifications to the user of incoming communication events received from other users over the packet based network wherein the client application is further configured to defer one or more of said notifications of incoming communication events received during said viewing activity determine a delineation in the viewing activity and automatically output the one or more notifications to the user following said delineation.

In embodiments the method may further comprise in accordance with any of the above features of the media appliance.

In addition to the network interface each television set further comprises a television receiver for receiving analogue and or digital television signals which are broadcast over the television network . Alternatively or additionally a television set could be arranged to receive packet based television signals over the Internet or other such packet based network. However broadcast television is still popular at the time of writing and so in preferred embodiments the television set will comprise a television receiver for receiving broadcasts at least.

The difference between a broadcast and a communication made over a packet based network is that broadcast signals are transmitted indiscriminately without transmitting to selected destination devices and regardless of whether the end user has selected to receive the signal although a decryption key or such like may still be required so that only authorised users can derive meaningful information from the television signal for viewing . Packet based communications on the other hand are point to point with an address of the intended destination device being included in the packets. In the case of packet based television signals transmitted over the Internet these are still point to multipoint communications rather than a broadcast.

Each computer terminal is installed with a communication client application . Each computer terminal also comprises an audio transceiver comprising a speaker and microphone e.g. in the form of a headset or handset or a built in speaker and microphone. Most computer terminals preferably also comprise a webcam . Furthermore each television set comprises an embedded processor and memory installed with a version of the communication client application specially adapted for running on a television set. Each television set also comprises a webcam and an audio transceiver with speaker and microphone or is connected or communicable with such components. In a particularly preferred embodiment an audio transceiver is provided in a remote control unit of the television discussed shortly.

The communication client applications and are preferably peer to peer clients for setting up and conducting VoIP calls according to peer to peer principles as discussed above. To that end a peer to peer backend server is coupled to the Internet for receiving registration requests from the client applications and . The back end server is arranged to distribute UIC certificates to the respective client applications and running on the computer terminals and television sets in response to the registration requests. Once registered and thus in possession of a UIC certificate the client applications and or can look up one another s addresses exchange and authenticate one another s certificates and thus establish a voice or video call over the Internet . It will be appreciated however that other kinds of communication client could alternatively be used e.g. based on centralized server based call set up.

In addition the communication system may comprise a telephone network such as a circuit switched network and a gateway connecting between the Internet and the telephone network . A gateway version of the client application is arranged to run on the gateway and a communication client application or running on a computer terminal or television set is thus able to establish a call with a dedicated phone unit of the telephone network . This is achieved by establishing a connection with the client on the gateway using peer to peer call set up and then supplying the relevant telephone number to the gateway effectively the user s client or sees the gateway as a peer . The phone network may for example comprise a fixed line network landline and or a mobile cellular network.

As shown in the remote control unit or just remote control comprises a microphone speaker a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR transmitter and a second remote interface in the form of a short range RF interface such as a Bluetooth interface. The microphone and speaker are operatively coupled to the Bluetooth interface . The remote control is thus arranged to communicate voice signals from the microphone to the television via the Bluetooth interface and to receive voice signals from the television via the Bluetooth interface for playing out of the speaker .

The remote control further comprises a plurality of buttons operatively coupled to the infrared transmitter arranged so as to allow the user to control the television via the infrared transmitter . The buttons comprise a standby button for setting the television into a low power mode. The buttons further comprise numerical or alphanumeric buttons for changing channel or supplying other numerical or alphanumerical data to the television function buttons for controlling various functions of the television e.g. for controlling a cursor and or menu system and optionally dedicated calling buttons for performing specific dedicated operations relating to the calling functionality of the client application e.g. call hang up or buttons for zooming in and out during a video call.

The televisions set comprises within a single casing an embedded processing apparatus a random access memory RAM and an embedded non volatile storage device which may comprise an electronically erasable and reprogrammable memory EEPROM or flash memory a magnetic storage medium and or a one time writable ROM. The non volatile storage device is coupled to the processing apparatus and stores a basic operating system OS a television application and a communication client application such as a VoIP client. The processing apparatus is arranged to execute the operating system e.g. either by fetching instructions directly from ROM or by first loading from a flash memory into the RAM before fetching. When executed the operating system is configured to load the television application and client application into RAM and schedule them for execution on the processing apparatus . The processing apparatus is thus arranged to run the television application and client application under control of the operating system . In embodiments only a minimal operating system may be required in the form of a basic scheduler.

The television set further comprises within the same casing a video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer video hardware a screen an amplifier and speaker or output to an external speaker or headphones a television receiver an external audio video AV input such as a SCART or HDMI input from an external source a webcam or webcam input for connecting to an external webcam a network interface in the form of a first short range RF transceiver such as a wi fi transceiver a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR receiver and a second remote interface in the form of a second short range RF transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver.

The video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer each have an input coupled to the processing apparatus . The video hardware has an input coupled to the outputs of the video frame buffer and UI frame buffer . The screen has an input to the output of the video hardware . In embodiments the frame buffers and could be dedicated hardware buffers or alternatively could be implemented in a general purpose memory. The amplifier has an input coupled to the processing apparatus and an output coupled to the speaker . The processing apparatus is further coupled to the network interface television receiver auxiliary input webcam input infrared interface and Bluetooth interface .

Any or all of the above components may be coupled to the processing apparatus via intermediate components such as a bus and or cache not shown as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

The television receiver comprises an input for connecting to at least one reception means such as an antenna satellite dish or cable line and is thus arranged to receive television broadcast signals from the television network via the reception means. The television receiver is a hardware front end which may comprise for example sampling circuitry a low noise amplifier a filter a mixer and or an analogue to digital converter ADC . Once received by the television receiver unit the television signals are thus made available to the processing apparatus for signal processing. The television application comprises a signal processing engine in the form of code which when executed performs at least some of the required signal processing on the received television signals. The processed television signals are then output to the video frame buffer and amplifier for consumption by the end user. The signal processing engine may comprise for example a digital filter demodulator demultiplexer decoder decryption block and or error checking block. However different ways of allocating the television receiver and processing functionality between software and dedicated hardware are also possible. E.g. in embodiments more of the functionality such as the demultiplexing could be moved to the receiver front end . Techniques for receiving and processing television signals will be known to a person skilled in the art.

In the case of traditional analogue television broadcasts the signals of a plurality of different concurrent programs of different TV channels are frequency division multiplexed over the airwaves by being transmitted on different frequencies. The television receiver will then comprise a tuning circuit to demultiplex the broadcasts and thereby separate out the signal of the required programme. In the case of digital television broadcasts the signals of different concurrent programs are each divided into packets and interleaved so as to time division multiplex the different programs signals into a transport stream for broadcast. The signal processing engine of the television application will then comprise a packet filter to demultiplex the packets of different transport streams and so separate out the signal of the required programme. Multiple transport streams may also be broadcast on different frequencies requiring a tuner as well. Furthermore for digital television one or more of the transport streams may comprise additional programme information such as an electronic programme guide EPG .

Video signals for output to the television screen may also be received via the AV input from an external source such as a DVD player or games console.

The television application further comprises a UI graphics engine a remote protocol engine an application programming interface API and a television UI layer. The overall operation of the signal processing engine UI graphics engine remote protocol engine and API is controlled by the television UI layer. The user can select which broadcast to view by pressing buttons on the remote control causing the remote control to communicate control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . The user may also use the buttons in a similar manner to view additional information such as the EPG or control menus and to navigate the EPG or menus. The relevant control signals are interpreted by the remote protocol engine of the television application which in turn communicates with the television UI layer. In response the television UI layer controls the signal processing engine to output the relevant television programme to the video frame buffer and or controls the UI graphics engine to output graphics to the UI frame buffer e.g. to display the graphics of the menu or EPG . The frame buffers and or supply their contents to the video hardware for display on the screen . In embodiments the UI frame buffer and video hardware may be arranged to overlay UI graphics over the current television programme in a partially transparent manner and or to leave at least part of the television programme visible.

As mentioned the television set comprises a network interface . In preferred embodiments this takes the form of a wireless transceiver such as a wi fi transceiver for communicating wirelessly with a household or office based wireless router as found in most modern homes or offices. The router in turn connects to the Internet . However in alternative embodiments the network interface may comprise other options such as a wired modern or a port to an external wired modem.

The communication client application comprises a protocol stack having an I O layer which when executed on the processing apparatus is operable to transmit and receive signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer comprises a network signalling protocol for transmitting and receiving control signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer may also comprise an API for communicating with the API of the television application .

The I O layer further comprises a voice engine comprising a voice codec. The voice engine is arranged to accept speech signals from the microphone and to encode those speech signals for transmission over the internet via the network interface . The voice engine is also arranged to decode speech signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the television s amplifier and speaker or to the speaker in the remote control via the Bluetooth interfaces and . The I O layer further comprises a video engine comprising a video codec. The video engine is arranged to accept video signals from the webcam input and to encode those video signals for transmission over the Internet via the network interface . The video engine is also arranged to decode video signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . Alternatively in a full screen mode the video codec could output video via the video frame buffer .

Higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client engine which is responsible for call set up. The client engine controls the network signalling protocol engine of the client in order to establish a live voice or video call with another user terminal or over the Internet preferably using P2P call set up as discussed above or potentially using a centralized call set up via a server. The client engine may also handle other functions such as connection management authentication encryption and or exchanging presence information with the client applications or of other user terminals presence information indicates the availability of a user for communication and is preferably at least partially defined by the respective user themselves .

Even higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client UI layer which is responsible for the client s user interface. The client UI layer is operable to generate a client user interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . This may be output via the APIs and the UI graphics engine of the TV application under control of the TV UI layer or alternatively the client application could be provided with its own UI graphics protocol to output graphics to the UI frame buffer directly . The client user interface thus presents the user with on screen controls which they can activate using buttons on the remote control . Based on these button presses the remote control communicates control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . These control signals may be interpreted by the UI protocol engine in the television application and then signalled via the APIs to the I O layer of the client application or alternatively the I O layer of the client application could be provided with its own remote control protocol to interpret these control signals directly . In turn the protocol of the I O layer of the client communicates with the client UI layer. The client UI layer is thus configured to respond to user inputs in order to control the overall operation of the client application e.g. allowing a user to select contacts to call hang up etc.

Furthermore the UI layer of the client may be configured to communicate with the UI layer of the television application via the APIs and the operating system . This allows the client application and television application to negotiate control of the screen and or speaker or .

Whether the client application or television application takes precedence may depend on the implementation and or situation. Since the television set is primarily a television then preferably the client application should require permission from the television application before controlling the screen or speaker or . However in embodiments a user defined setting may be provided allowing the user to control whether or not the client application can autonomously take control of the screen and or speaker or e.g. to notify the user in event of an incoming call. This setting would preferably be stored in a non volatile memory and be readable by the client application and or television application . E.g. the television application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to unequivocally allow the client application to control the screen and or speaker. Alternatively the client application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to control the screen and or speaker without seeking permission from the television application .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention at least one such user setting is read by the client application and when set the client application is configured to defer any notifications of incoming VoIP calls or other incoming communication events received over the Internet until a suitable juncture in the user s television viewing. This could mean deferring a notification until after a television programme is finished or until some other suitable juncture in the programme such as a commercial break. Another possibility would be to defer a notification until after video signals cease to be received via the AV input from an external source such as DVD player or games console. Generally speaking incoming communication events signalled asynchronously to the television set over the Internet via the network interface are postponed in deference to a higher priority source such as the television receiver and television network or AV input and external source.

Note that the concept of deferring a notification is distinct and advantageous over the mere outright suppression of a notification. Suppressing the notification would mean barring it altogether so as never to be output to the user whereas deferral requires that the notification will still output to the user but postponed until some later point in time.

In order to do this the client application is configured with a mechanism for delineating the viewing activity in question. The client application will not understand the actual user content of the television programme or such like so cannot directly tell when one programme ends and another begins or cannot directly tell the difference between the main programme and the commercial breaks. Therefore a delineation mechanism is required for which there are a number of options as discussed below.

A first preferred mechanism involves receiving additional programme information broadcast over the television network . In this case the additional programme information is received by the client application via the television receiver and comprises timing information which can be used by the client application to delineate the television programme for the purpose of deferring notifications.

As illustrated schematically in a digital television broadcast may comprise audio data and video data of one or more programme streams all interleaved together i.e. time division multiplexed into a combined transport stream for transmission on a particular frequency. Also interleaved into the transport stream is additional program information providing timing information for the one or more programmes potentially amongst other information such as subtitles and textual programme summaries or pr cis . The additional programme information may take the form of a general data stream multiplexed into the transport stream in conjunction with a plurality of programme streams providing programme information for a plurality of programmes. An example of this would be an electronic program guide EPG . Alternatively or additionally individual respective programme information may be provided in the stream of each programme. The audio data video data and additional programme information are decoded by the signal processing engine of the television application and the required programme timing information can be accessed by the client application via the APIs under control of the TV UI layer.

In one variant of this first mechanism the programme timing information comprises programme schedule information such as the EPG. That is nominal information about when the programme or programmes are scheduled to start and end. For example the API of the client application may enable it to access the EPG decoded by the signal processing engine of the television application . The client can thereby determine that the television programme currently being viewed on the screen is scheduled to end at a particular time and defer the notification until that time.

An example is shown in . Here the client determines via the API to the EPG that the television programme currently being viewed is scheduled to run from 8 00 pm to 9 00 pm. If an incoming call is signalled over the Internet and received at the network interface during the program e.g. say at 8 13 pm then the client application will temporarily block the notification of the incoming call until the scheduled finishing time at 9 00 pm. A similar process would occur if an incoming IM chat message is received during the programme. Following the scheduled end time of the programme either at that time or just after the client application will then take control of the screen in order to display a list of any one or more communication events missed during the programme. The list preferably comprises a control such as a cursor which can be controlled by the user e.g. via function buttons on the remote control to thereby operate the client initiate a return VoIP call or other corresponding packet based communication with the respective other user.

In another variant of the first mechanism the programme timing information may comprise a real time indication of the programme s actual end time which can be accessed by the client via the API to the television application in a similar manner as discussed above .

As shown in if the programme overruns until a later time than scheduled e.g. say 9 02 pm then the client will not display the list of missed events until the actual end time of 9 02 pm. This advantageously avoids the deferred notifications interfering with the last few minutes of a programme which could even be the most critical part of the programme in the case of a suspense drama for instance . The client will also defer any incoming communications received during the overrunning period e.g. at 9 01 pm .

Further as shown in the real time programme timing information may also indicate the time of breaks in the programme typically used as commercial breaks to show advertisements but potentially also used for other purposes such as news bulletins . In this case the client application will be enabled to display the list of missed events during the break.

A second mechanism for delineating the programme is for the client application to download programme timing information via the Internet and network interface e.g. from a server of a broadcaster programme production company or third party service. This downloaded information could comprise either schedule information and or real time updates to the scheduled times. This second mechanism has the advantages of the first mechanism with the added advantage of being compatible with legacy technologies in which certain timing information may not be available via the broadcast most digital television broadcasts nowadays do at least include schedule information such as the EPG but do not all necessarily provide real time indications of programme timing and furthermore analogue broadcasts do not include any programme timing information . This could even be used in conjunction with the former variant of the first mechanism in order to provide updates to the schedule information received in the broadcast .

A third less preferred mechanism for delineating the programme is to provide a timer that can be set by the user. The timer may be a feature of the client application or be a feature of the television application which may be accessed via the APIs. In this arrangement the user sets the timer for a predetermined time and the client application waits until that time before displaying the list of missed events . This would have a similar effect as shown in . As with the former variant of the first mechanism the third mechanism has the downside of possible interference with the end of an overrunning program and also has the added downside of requiring an inconvenient user input process. On the other hand this third mechanism has the advantage of being compatible with legacy technologies such as analogue broadcasts which do not include programme timing information and without requiring additional server infrastructure to provide such information via the internet .

A fourth mechanism would be to provide a user defined do not disturb DND setting which the client could assert at the beginning of the programme. This could be an existing DND presence status available within the client application . In this case the client application is configured to detect when the user de asserts the DND status and upon detecting this to automatically display the list of missed events .

In some of the above mechanisms it may be necessary for the client application to monitor the current time. This could be done based on a local clock or by receiving updates of the current time from the Internet or television network . However using the latter variant of the first mechanism there may be no need to monitor the current time if the programme timing information provides a real time trigger as opposed to a real time update of the end time in hours and minutes of the day . There will also be no need to monitor the current time in the fourth DND based mechanism.

In a particularly advantageous addition to the present invention the client application may be further configured to return automated messages to the callers of the missed calls or more generally to the other users who are the originators of the missed communication events . The automated message is returned by the client application when an incoming communication event is received during an ongoing programme without requiring an input from the local user viewing the programme the callee . It is transmitted to the other remote user the caller via the network interface and Internet and informs the caller that the callee is unavailable. Preferably the automated message indicates to the caller the reason why the callee is unavailable watching TV . In one particularly preferred embodiment the client application may be configured to use the programme schedule or other timing information to predict when the callee is likely to become available again i.e. when the current programme is due to finish and may include this predicted information in the automated message for the benefit of the caller. This could even be incorporated as a new kind of presence status.

For instance the invention is not limited to on screen notifications. In other embodiments the notifications may comprise audible notifications output via a speaker or and it may desirable to defer the audible notifications so that they do not disrupt the user s experience of a current television programme.

Further the invention is not limited to any particular mechanism for delineating a television program or other viewing activity. A number of examples have been described above and others may become apparent to a person skilled in the art given the disclosure herein. For example notifications could be deferred until the user changes channel changes to a different source such as from television programmes to AV input or accesses the EPG. In another example the client could access the decoded audio via an API to the television application and attempt to determine when a commercial break occurs based on a change in peak or average volume levels broadcasters tend to increase the volume during commercial breaks to get the user s attention though this method would be vulnerable to false alarms e.g. during action sequences of a programme .

Note also that the term programme does not limit to any particular kind of programme content and could refer for example to a film soap opera documentary sporting event news program etc.

Further other ways of allocating the various client television and other functionality amongst different processors are envisaged. For example one or more dedicated signal processors DSPs could be arranged to execute the television signal processing engine of the television application and or the video engine and or voice engine of the client application with one or more separate CPUs being arranged to execute the UI layer client engine protocol and graphics engines of the client application and or the UI layer and protocol and graphics engines of the television application . In another example the client application and television application could each be run on a different respective CPU embedded in the television set . Some or all of the functionality of the television application could alternatively be implemented in dedicated hardware including the possibility of hardwired signal processing apparatus in the television receiver front end .

Furthermore although the preferred application the invention is not limited to use in a television set having the above components including television screen all within one single self contained casing. In another application the invention could be implemented in a set top box for plugging into such a television set. In that case the diagram would be similar to that of but with the television hardware and screen replaced by an audio video AV output.

In another application illustrated in the client application may be installed on a games console . Similarly to the television the console comprises a processing apparatus in the form of one or more CPUs coupled to a non volatile storage means such as hard drive flash memory and or optical disc drive a RAM a webcam or input from a webcam and a network interface such as a wi fi transceiver for accessing a packet based network such as the Internet e.g. via wireless router . The processing apparatus is further coupled to dedicated gaming graphics hardware and dedicated audio hardware which in turn connect to an audio video AV output for connecting the console to a television set . The processing apparatus is further coupled to an additional wireless interface operating on a band suitable for communicating to and from a wireless gamepad or other such game controller or alternatively a wired interface could be provided . The non volatile storage supplies the client application and a video game not necessarily from the same storage unit or medium both arranged for execution on the processing apparatus preferably under control of an operating system . The video game comprises a console library arranged to handle the I O with the various devices and a game engine arranged to perform the underlying game logic and a game UI layer arranged to generate game graphics and sound for output via the console library and graphics and sound hardware .

The video game also comprises an API for communicating with the API of the client application via the OS . The APIs may be used to signal occurrences within the video game to the client and these signalled occurrences may be used by the client to delineate the video game for the purpose of deferring notifications. For example notifications of an incoming call could be deferred until a player dies or loses within the video game. This may be a more suitable juncture to notify the user than mid game when he or she may not wish to be distracted.

Generally speaking the present invention can be applied to any media appliance having video apparatus for outputting signals to a television screen. The video apparatus may comprise any combination of dedicated hardware and or regions of memory storing software modules with any software modules being executed on either the same or a different processor unit as the client application . Depending on the appliance and the implementation the video apparatus may take different forms. In the example television set of for example the video apparatus may be said to comprise a combination of the frame buffers and video hardware and or a region of the non volatile memory storing signal processing code of the television application. In the example console of the video apparatus may be said to comprise the video hardware external AV output and or a region of the non volatile storage storing graphics processing code of the video game .

Further the present invention need not be limited by television broadcasts. With increasing popularity of packet based television services there may be interest in the idea of a dedicated television set or set top box with the capability of receiving packet based television signals either over the Internet or a dedicated packet based service.

Furthermore note that the present invention is not limited particularly to VoIP or to a peer to peer topology. Other packet based networks protocols and methods of call set up may also be used.

Other variations of the present invention may be apparent to a person skilled in the art given the disclosure herein. The scope of the present invention is not limited by the described embodiments but only by the appendant claims.

