---

title: In-vehicle communication device with social networking
abstract: Generally described, aspects of the disclosed subject matter are directed to managing communications from a mobile device. In accordance with one embodiment, a method for establishing a communication session with a contact is provided. The method includes causing information about at least one contact associated with the user to be displayed on the mobile device and receiving input to initiate a communication session with the contact. Then, if the identified contact is associated with a CB radio, a CB based communication session is established in which audio is transmitted and received from the mobile device using a CB radio communication unit. On the other hand, if the identified contact is associated with a remote device capable of performing data-based communications, a data-based communication session is established and which data is transmitted and received in accordance with IP-based protocols.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09060381&OS=09060381&RS=09060381
owner: PACCAR Inc
number: 09060381
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100208
---
The Citizens Band CB Radio Service is a system of short distance radio communications performed on a subset of public radio channels. These services began in the 1940 s to provide individuals and businesses a radio band for personal communications. Like most two way radio services CB channels are shared by many users but only one station may transmit at a time. Other stations must listen and wait for the shared channel to be available. Moreover users such as vehicle operators may be limited to performing audio only communications over a short range using a radio band that is publicly accessible.

In contrast to the CB Radio Service wireless networking technologies have experienced explosive growth in both the number of subscribers as well as available features. Generally described the infrastructure that enables wireless networking consists of hardware i.e. servers routers antennas etc. network services software and related components. Continuing advancements in this infrastructure is increasing the use and overall role that wireless networking serves in both the business and social landscape. For example while first generation mobile telephony was limited to audio communications users are now able to participate in other types of data based communications such as e mail instant messaging multimedia streaming etc.

Existing devices are limited in their ability to perform communications over different types of communication systems. For example wireless telephones are not configured to exchange communications over CB radio bands with a CB radio. In addition existing CB radios are limited to audio only communications and have not leveraged emerging wireless networking technologies. As a result enhanced features that allow multimedia communications are not available using existing CB radios. To address these and other drawbacks consumers would benefit from a more versatile device that is capable of communicating over CB radio bands as well as the emerging wireless infrastructure.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Generally described aspects of the disclosed subject matter are directed to managing communications from a mobile device. In accordance with one embodiment a method for establishing a communication session with a contact is provided. The method includes causing information about at least one contact associated with the user to be displayed on the mobile device and receiving input to initiate a communication session with the contact. Then if the identified contact is associated with a CB radio a CB based communication session is established in which audio is transmitted and received from the mobile device using a CB radio communication unit. On the other hand if the identified contact is associated with a remote device capable of performing data based communications a data based communication session is established in which data is transmitted and received in accordance with appropriate protocols such as IP based protocols etc.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings where like numerals reference like elements is intended as a description of various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter and is not intended to represent the only embodiments. Each embodiment described in this disclosure is provided merely as an example or illustration and should not be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. In this regard the following disclosure first provides a general description of a system in which the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. Then an exemplary routine for initiating communications between remote devices is described. The illustrative examples provided herein are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claimed subject matter to the precise forms disclosed. Similarly any steps described herein may be interchangeable with other steps or combinations of steps in order to achieve the same or substantially similar result.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of a system in which aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented is illustrated. In one embodiment the system depicted in includes one or more mobile devices a wide area network and a host computing system . As described in further detail below the mobile devices may be installed or otherwise associated with a vehicle such as a truck car motorcycle recreational vehicle vessel etc.

Users of the mobile devices provided by the present disclosure are able to communicate over both traditional CB bands and using modern wireless protocols and networks e.g. WiFi WiMax Bluetooth cellular based networks the Global Positioning System band Dedicated Short Range communications DSRC etc. . In this regard modern wireless communication protocols and networks may be leveraged in order to communicate real time video audio and data to from the mobile devices . Moreover a user is not limited to only participating in local communications as required by previous CB radios. Instead a user may establish a network session with any device connected to the wide area network i.e. Internet . In addition to performing communications using modern wireless protocols and networks the mobile devices are configured to perform communications over traditional CB bands. Accordingly users of the mobile devices may communicate over traditional CB radio based frequencies with a vehicle operator that utilizes the CB radio .

As illustrated in the mobile devices may establish network connections from various network access points. In one embodiment the mobile devices can establish a network connection via a wireless network which includes various networks that may correspond to a number of IP based or other networks such as DSL networks public switched telephone networks PSTN and other wire line networks e.g. SS7 based networks wireless networks such as those using CDMA GSM IEEE 802.11x ZigBee UMTS WIMAX etc. In this instance the wireless network serves as the network access point for connecting the mobile devices which utilize wireless protocols at the data link layer to the wide area network .

In another embodiment the mobile devices may establish a network connection from the wireless hotspot which provides network connectivity within a geographic range. In some instances the wireless hotspot allows a user to establish a network connection without being a subscriber to a wireless service provided by a particular carrier. However systems and devices that create a mobile wireless hotspot which typically utilize WiFi and or WiMax protocols are increasingly being made available by carriers. Similar to traditional hotspots a mobile hotspot provides the mobile devices with access to network connectivity within a short range of the hotspot. As described in further detail below with reference to the systems for providing the wireless hotspot may be made available from a device that is separate from the mobile devices . Alternatively the systems software hardware etc. which implement the wireless hotspot may be integrated into the mobile devices .

In one embodiment the mobile devices are configured to perform vehicle to vehicle communication without utilizing the wide area network . As described in further detail below real time video audio or other data based communications may be directly transmitted between the mobile devices or over a Local Area Network LAN connection. To increase the range in which vehicle to vehicle communications may be performed a radio system may be used to store and forward messages being transmitted between the mobile devices . In one embodiment the radio system is a Dedicated Short Range Communications DSRC system that has a fixed infrastructure of geographically separated devices e.g. control units repeaters etc. that receive and forward network communications. Those skilled in the art and others will recognize that DSRC provides high data transfer rates and is well suited for transmitting multimedia communications. However DSRC is only one representative technology that may be used to extend the range in which communications may be performed. Those skilled in the art and others will recognize that radio systems other than DSRC may be employed without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In some embodiments the mobile devices can communicate with the host computing system via the wide area network . As described in further detail below certain network services may be provided from the host computing system for managing a users communications from the mobile devices . In this regard the host computing system includes application logic for reading processing and exposing data to the mobile devices . In one embodiment the host computing system may include one or more data stores that stores user profile information e.g. user account information voicemail information lists of contacts group membership information etc. Accordingly a user s information that is relevant to the operations of the mobile devices may be maintained at the host computing system and delivered to the mobile device when needed. This user information may also be stored and or synchronized with information maintained on the mobile devices .

Now with reference to one exemplary component architecture of a mobile device provided by the present disclosure will be described. As depicted in the mobile device comprises a display unit an input unit a network interface a memory a processor controller audio video controllers and other components suitable for communicating with remote devices. In this regard the processor is configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations defined in applications that reside in the memory .

In some embodiments the processor together with an operating system not illustrated manages the hardware and software resources of the mobile device . The operating system may be any operating system including but not limited to Symbian OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS OS 2 Unix Linux Palm OS OS X Google Android or iPhone operating system. Since the functions performed by an operating system are generally well known in the art the operating system will not be described in further detail here.

The mobile device also includes a display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a light emitting polymer display LPD . In one embodiment an input unit is a touch sensitive layer of the display unit that is configured to recognize a user s touches applied to the surface of the layer. For example the position of the touches the pressure of the touches or general direction of the touches may be recognized by the input unit . In other embodiments the input unit includes controls that are separate from the display unit . In this instance the input unit may include separate soft keyboards e.g. QWERTY etc. physical keyboards physical buttons scroll wheels track balls and the like.

The mobile device may further include a network interface for communicating with other devices or networks using wireless communication protocols. The network interface may include communication circuitry that permits wireless communication over one or more of the IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16 networks cellular networks public private networks etc. In this regard the network interface covers communications frequency bands such as the cellular telephone bands at 850 MHz 900 MHz 1800 MHz and 1900 MHz the global positioning system GPS band data service bands such as the 3G data communications band e.g. the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS communication band WiFi IEEE 802.11 band Worldwide Interoperability from Microwave Access WiMax IEEE 802.16 band Bluetooth band and the like. It should be understood that the network interface may comprise other components including transmitter receiver circuitry for performing communications using the above identified protocols and bands. By way of example only these components may include but are not limited to a cellular radio or modem a Bluetooth interface satellite communication interface RF communication interface etc. In addition the network interface may include a wireless router such as a WiFi router that provides a mobile wireless hotspot. Alternatively the mobile device may be configured to communicate with a separate WiFi router not shown that provides a mobile hotspot as described above with reference to . In any event the network interface controls the front end communications performed from the mobile device .

The memory depicted in is one example of computer readable media suited to store data and program modules that implement aspects of the disclosed subject matter. As used herein the term computer readable media includes volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable memory implemented in any method or technology capable of storing information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example computer readable media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store information for access by the processor .

As further depicted in the mobile device includes the audio video controllers that convert received digital video and audio content into a format compatible for being disseminated to a user. For example when a video stream is received a video controller decodes the stream and presents the decoded video on the display unit . In this regard the audio video controllers may include codecs for encoding decoding video across the range of network bandwidths that are utilized by other available communication devices. Similarly an incoming audio stream may be processed by an audio controller in order to decode the stream and play audio data on the mobile device . In this regard video and audio data may be packetized and transmitted in accordance with standards dictated by an Internet standard protocol such as the real time transport protocol RTP . However those skilled in the art and others will recognize that RTP is only one exemplary Internet standard protocol that the audio video controllers may use for the encoding decoding and transport of real time video and audio data.

As further depicted in the mobile device includes a CB radio based communication unit for transmitting receiving communications over CB radio bands with other devices e.g. the CB radio . For ease of illustration does not depict the transmitter and receiver circuitry analog to digital converters amplifiers power source etc. which will typically be included with the radio based communication unit . However since these and other components that may be included with the radio based communication unit are known in the art they will not be described in detail here.

As illustrated in the memory includes a communication platform that abstracts different types of underlying communications on behalf of applications that execute on the mobile device . As mentioned previously the mobile device is configured to perform different types of communications depending on certain variables. For example wireless communication protocols may be used by the mobile device to perform network communications over the wireless network . On the other hand the mobile device may participate in communications with a remote CB radio utilizing CB radio bands. The communication platform provided by the present disclosure allows applications such as the social networking application that execute on the mobile device to establish different types of communication sessions. As a result an application developer is not required to implement logic for establishing maintaining terminating or otherwise managing these different types of network sessions. The functionality of the social networking application and the communication platform is described in further detail below.

It should be well understood that the component architecture of the mobile device depicted in should be construed as exemplary. In this regard the mobile device may use other components than those illustrated or be implemented in accordance with a different component architecture. Moreover the present disclosure may be implemented on other types of devices than those devices illustrated and described with reference to . As described in further detail below and by way of example only the social networking application and the communication platform provided by the present disclosure may be implemented on a Personal Computer wireless phone navigation or entertainment device etc. or any other computing device capable of executing computer executable instructions.

With reference now to an exemplary implementation of the mobile device that is mounted and integrated in a vehicle will be described. In one embodiment the mobile device is mounted in a vehicle console at a location that may be accessed by a vehicle operator and or vehicle passenger. In this regard the mobile device includes a display screen which utilizes controls and graphics to display information and obtain input from the user. Accordingly a user may activate menu items click buttons select controls or otherwise interact with graphical elements that are presented on the display screen to provide input. For example controls presented on the display screen allow a user to initiate different types of communications with other users. As described in further detail below a user may select a control to initiate a video audio and or other data based network session with a particular contact.

In the exemplary embodiment depicted in the mobile device is integrated into other vehicle systems such as a vehicle audio system. For ease of illustration and because it is not important for an understanding of the claimed subject matter does not show some of the typical output devices that may be connected to the mobile device such as speakers wired or wireless headsets car stereo and the like. For the same reasons does not show some of the input devices that may be used by the mobile device such as a CB handset microphone keyboard camera etc.

Now with reference to exemplary user interfaces of a social networking application provided by the present disclosure will be described. As depicted in the user interface of the social networking application includes a program selection toolbar a contacts list and a video display area . By interacting with the program selection toolbar the user may activate a particular application i.e. audio player camera application vehicle navigation etc. . In the example depicted in a social networking application that allows a user to establish different types of communication sessions is active. As illustrated the social networking application causes the contacts list to be displayed which identifies a set of contacts or other users. To facilitate communications a user may create a tag for identifying the user within a group or community. As described in further detail below the availability of a user to participate in communications may be broadcast to other users or groups of users. Similarly a user may establish settings to register and listen for the availability of others to participate in a communication session. When a contact becomes available the mobile device may provide a visual auditory or other indicator that notifies the user regarding the availability of a contact. In the example depicted in the icons and may be displayed in a first pattern to indicate that an associated contact is available to participate in a communication session. On the other hand icons and may be displayed in a second pattern to indicate that an associated contact is unavailable.

The social networking application provided by aspects of the present disclosure allows users to create and become members of a group. Each group member may login and be notified of the communication status of other group members. At login the social networking application may prompt or automatically obtain user credentials such as a password user identifier etc. Accordingly data is maintained on the mobile device that describes a collection of memberships or associations between a user and one or more groups. Each membership may have a separate user identifier which will be shown to other members of the group thus creating an identity for the user within the context of the group. In one embodiment a user may provide input to select a particular group or community and have members of the group or community displayed in the contacts list .

Now with reference to another exemplary user interface that illustrates additional aspects of the present disclosure will be described. Similar to the description provided above with reference to the user interface depicted in includes the program selection toolbar the contacts list and the video display area . However a communication session in which video audio and or data based communication can be transmitted between remote devices has been established. For example the communication session may have been initiated by a selection of the CHRIS entry presented on the user interface . As illustrated in the video display region may be used to present real time video that is streamed from a remote device. Information about the contact may be presented on the video display region along with a plurality of selectable buttons such as a VIDEO button a MUTE button and END button . By activating the VIDEO button a user may initiate terminate the transmission of video data. Similarly a user may cease or resume the transmission of audio data by activating the MUTE button . Moreover the communication session may be terminated by activating of the END button .

Those skilled in the art and others will recognize that the description provided above with reference to provides exemplary graphical user interfaces. However the features of the present disclosure may be implemented using different types of user interfaces. For example the user interface of the mobile device does not have to be graphically based but may be rendered as a text display without graphical components provided via audio prompts and voice recognition accessed from an API or library routine and the like. Accordingly the features of the user interfaces and described above with reference to should be construed as exemplary and not limiting.

Now with reference to an overview of the different types of underlying communications that may be performed using the communication platform will be described. As mentioned previously the mobile device provided by the present disclosure is configured to perform different types of communications. As illustrated in applications such as the social networking application may call the communication platform in order to create an instance of a communication session with a remote device. In this regard the applications may cause the communication platform to establish one of a number of different types of sessions including a vehicle to network communication session an enhanced vehicle to vehicle communication session and a vehicle to vehicle CB based communication session . Regardless of the type of session established the communication platform provided by the present disclosure implements logic to manage the communication session. Accordingly the applications that execute on the mobile device do not require specific knowledge or logic for managing the communication session. Having a unified way in which the applications can create instances of communication sessions simplifies application development for the mobile device . The applications are not required to manage communication sessions and may rely on the communication platform to perform different types of communications with a remote device.

Three exemplary types of communication sessions capable of being established by the communication platform are illustrated in . One exemplary communication session is the vehicle to network communication session that allows the user of the mobile device to communicate over the wide area network . In this embodiment the applications that execute on the mobile device are able to utilize all of the resources available from the Internet. For example in the vehicle to network communication session the mobile device may leverage an Internet telephony system to perform communications. In an Internet telephony system which frequently uses the Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP data is processed into a sequence of data blocks called packets for transmission utilizing an Internet Protocol IP data network. In addition to being portable and flexible Internet telephony systems are able to establish and control multimedia communications i.e. video audio and or data . In the vehicle to network communication session Internet based applications including but not limited to Ebay Skype Google Video etc. may be used on the mobile device . In this embodiment data may be exchanged with any device connected to the Internet thereby allowing a user to maintain contact with a dispatch facility family other vehicle operators etc.

As further illustrated in another exemplary communication session that may be established from the mobile device is the enhanced vehicle to vehicle communication session . In this instance remote devices exchange data without causing the data to be routed over the Internet. Instead data packets are transmitted between the mobile devices over a range that is supported given the applicable protocol and available networking infrastructure. Since IP based communication protocols are used real time video audio and or data may be transmitted between the mobile devices in an enhanced vehicle to vehicle communication session . The communication link between devices participating in the vehicle to vehicle communication session may be direct such that intermediary devices are not used to extend the range in which communications may be performed. Alternatively the mobile devices may establish and use a Local Area Network LAN connection for data transmission. In this embodiment the range in which data may be exchanged during the vehicle to vehicle communications session can be extended. For example the radio system may use a series of repeaters that receive and forward data packets between mobile devices that are participating in an enhanced vehicle to vehicle communication session .

Another exemplary communication session in which the mobile devices may participate is the CB based vehicle to vehicle communication session. As the name suggests the CB based vehicle to vehicle communication session involves participating in communication over the CB radio bands. In this instance a transmitter receiver configured to transmit over CB radio bands is used by the mobile devices to transmit receive audio based communications. As a result a user may communicate with others that utilize a traditional CB radio without being required to use multiple devices to participate in different types of communication sessions.

Significantly the functionality of the communication platform and the social networking application illustrated and described with reference to does not rely on particular hardware components or platform. Accordingly aspects of the claimed subject mater are not tied to a particular device operating system application platform etc. Moreover the communication platform and the social networking application do not need to be bundled and or distributed with a particular device such as the mobile device Personal Computer mobile phone etc. Instead the communication platform and the social networking application can be implemented on any type of device capable of executing computer executable instructions or may be implemented and distributed as a standalone application separate from any hardware.

Now with reference to an exemplary initiation routine in which a communication session is established using the mobile device will be described. As mentioned previously a user may broadcast their availability to participate in a communication session and register as a listener with regard to the communication availability of others. The exemplary initiation routine depicted in is described in the context of establishing a communication session in this exemplary embodiment in which users broadcast their availability. However those skilled in the art and others will recognize that the concepts described below may be applied in other contexts without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter. With continuing reference to and the accompanying descriptions the initiation routine will now be described.

As illustrated in the initiation routine begins at block and at block a message is broadcast from the mobile device to inform others about the availability of a user to participate in a communication session. The mobile device provided by the present disclosure may be configured to periodically transmit a standard message that informs others about a user s communication status. As described above with reference to an application on the receiving device may process the standard message and provide an indicator as to the availability of a user. In this regard the message may be formatted in a way so that it can be processed by third party devices and or applications. Alternatively aspects of the present disclosure may provide the device and or application that processes the standard message.

Settings may be defined that affect how messages which describe the availability of a user are transmitted and processed. In one embodiment the social networking application is configured so that a user is notified whenever a contact is available. Alternatively settings may be established so that a user is only notified that a contact is available when the contact is identified as being within a particular geographic range i.e. 5 miles . Similarly a user may establish settings so that the message transmitted from the mobile device at block is only broadcast over a defined radius. By way of another example the social networking application may be configured to only allow communications between particular users. An entity such as a fleet operator may establish settings so that only vehicle operators within the fleet are able to exchange messages or otherwise communicate. However these are just examples on some of the ways in which communications from the mobile device may be configured.

At block of the initiation routine the mobile device receives input to initiate a communication session. A user may activate a selectable control defined by an application executing on the mobile device in order to initiate a communication session. For example at block the user may select one of the controls available from the user interfaces and described above with reference to to initiate a video audio and or other data based communication session.

As further illustrated in at block a function call to initiate the communication session is issued to the communication platform provided by the present disclosure. As mentioned previously the communication platform abstracts different types of underlying communications on behalf of applications that execute on the mobile device . Accordingly an application can create instances of different types of communication sessions using an Application Programming Interface API library routines and or other functions exposed by the communication platform . By way of example an application may initiate a communication session in which video and audio is streamed between remote devices by making the appropriate call to the communication platform at block . In addition other types of data and information may be accessed by applications using the communication platform . By way of example applications executing on the mobile device may generate requests to access network servers hosting XML Web services REST services XML resources RSS or Atom feeds HTML Hypertext Markup Language based Web sites among others.

At block of the initiation routine a request message to initiate a communication session with a remote device is formulated and transmitted. Within the mobile device the communication platform is responsible for causing outgoing messages to be formulated and transmitted. Upon receiving the call from an application at block the communication platform identifies the type of communication session that will be established. Then at block an outgoing message to initiate the communication session is encapsulated into the appropriate communication format. In this regard aspects of the present disclosure may utilize an application layer control protocol such as the Session Initiation Protocol SIP to manage the life of the communication session. As known in the art SIP is an exemplary control protocol that may be used to initiate modify and or terminate network sessions in which real time communications are exchanged. However other protocols may be used to exchange control information and otherwise manage a communication session. For example control information may be exchanged between devices using other control protocols such as but not limited to Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP etc.

At block of the initiation routine the request message to participate in the communication session is routed to the appropriate receiving device. In one embodiment the request message is routed over the wide area network to a receiving device which may be a personal computer laptop computer mobile phone another mobile device personal digital assistant and the like. The receiving device processes the received message and provides a visual auditory and or data based indicator requesting that the user participate in a communication session. Those skilled in the art and others will recognize that causing a message to be routed to the appropriate receiving device may be performed at block using techniques generally known in the art. However it should be well understood that the message may be transmitted in accordance with the embodiments described above. In particular the message to initiate the communication session may be routed over the wide area network when a vehicle to network communication session is being established. Moreover when an enhanced vehicle to vehicle communication session is initiated the message may be transmitted directly between vehicles over a local area network and or using the radio system as described above.

By routing the message to the appropriate receiving device a remote user may be notified of the incoming request to establish a communication session. Then a determination is made regarding whether the request to establish a communication session was accepted at decision block . A user that is invited to participate in a communication session may provide input to accept the invitation. In this instance the result of the determination made at decision block is YES and the initiation routine proceeds to block described in further detail below. Conversely if the user does not accept the invitation to participate in the communication session the result of the determination made at decision block is NO and the initiation routine proceeds to block where it terminates.

If the invitation to participate in the communication session is accepted the initiation routine proceeds to block where one or more real time communication channels is established. As mentioned previously the one or more real time communication channels established at block may include channels used for transmitting video audio and or other data based communications. Establishing the one or more real time communication channels at block may include transmitting additional messages between the devices that will participate in the communication session. For example a message indicating that a contact accepted the invitation to participate in the communication session will typically be transmitted back to a mobile device where the request originated. As a result the user interface on the mobile device may be updated to reflect that a communication session has been established with a particular contact. Then the initiation routine proceeds to block where it terminates.

It should be well understood that the initiation routine described above with reference to does not show all of the functions performed when initiating a communication session. Instead the initiation routine describes exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. Those skilled in the art and others will recognize that some functions may be performed in a different order omitted added or otherwise varied without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While illustrative embodiments have been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

