---

title: Computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches
abstract: A method, system and program product for computer information retrieval is disclosed. A matrix A is received. Random sign matrices S and R are generated. Matrix products of S^T*A, A*R, and S^T*A*R are computed. A Moore-Penrose pseudoinverse C of S^T*A*R is computed. A singular value decomposition is computed of the pseudoinverse C. Three matrices ARU, Sigma, and V^TS^TA are outputted as factorization in applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255401&OS=08255401&RS=08255401
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08255401
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
The present invention relates generally to information retrieval and more specifically to computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches.

Sketching involves computing a small number of random linear combinations of rows or columns of matrices. Current algorithms for numerical linear algebra take varying approaches and have varied success in terms of speed and error.

Hence there is a need for a more efficient system and method for computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method comprises computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches the retrieval comprising receiving an input n d matrix A with a computer receiving an input parameter k receiving a small constant eps where eps is greater than zero generating a random d k eps sign matrix R generating a random n k eps 2 sign matrix S computing a matrix product A R computing a matrix product S T A where S T is k eps 2 n matrix and where S T i j S j i computing S T A R computing the Moore Penrose pseudoinverse C of S T A R computing the singular value decomposition U Sigma V T of C where U is k eps k eps Sigma is k eps by k eps and V is k eps 2 k eps and outputting the three matrices ARU Sigma and V TS TA as factorization in applications.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system comprising a computer including a computer processor for information retrieval a processing engine for finding a decomposition of a term document matrix A the finding comprising obtaining a matrix S TAR wherein S comprises an n k eps 2 matrix with random entries with values selected from the set 1 1 wherein eps comprises an error parameter producing AR acquiring S TA and a computer display for outputting AR U Sigma V T S TA wherein U Sigma V T comprises the singular value decomposition SVD of the pseudoinverse of S TAR .

In an embodiment of the present invention a computer program product for computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code embodied therewith the computer readable program code including computer readable code performed on a computer that receives an input n d matrix A computer readable code that receives an input parameter k computer readable code that represents each row n as a term and each column d as a document computer readable code that replaces the matrix A with a function of the matrix A computer readable code that receives a small constant eps where eps is greater than zero computer readable code that generates a random d k eps sign matrix R computer readable code that generates a random n k eps 2 sign matrix S computer readable code that computes a matrix product A R computer readable code that computes a matrix product S T A where S T is k eps 2 n matrix where S T i j S j i computer readable code that computes S T A R computer readable code that computes the Moore Penrose pseudoinverse C of S T A R computer readable code that computes the singular value decomposition U Sigma V T of C where U is k eps k eps Sigma is k eps by k eps and V is k eps 2 k eps and outputting the three matrices ARU Sigma and V TS TA as factorization in applications.

The descriptions advantages and features presented herein are of representative embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding the invention. It should be understood that they are not representative of all the inventions defined by the claims. They are not to be considered limitations on the invention as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. For instance some of these advantages may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some advantages are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. Furthermore certain aspects of the claimed invention have not been discussed herein. However no inference should be drawn regarding those discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than for purposes of space and reducing repetition. Thus this summary of features and advantages should not be considered dispositive in determining equivalence. Additional features and advantages of the invention will become apparent in the following description from the drawings and from the claims. These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following drawings description and claims.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Various inventive features are described below for example a means to find a decomposition of a term document matrix that can each be used independently of one another or in combination with other features.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction performing system apparatus or device. A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction performing system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA JAVA is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may perform entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which perform via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which perform on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

A user may utilize the invention by using the user interface displayed on the computer monitor and operating the user interface with the keyboard and mouse . The user may utilize the system by inputting data and functions from the user interface for processing by the processing engine . The user interface and the processing engine may be stored in computer random access memory and on a hard disk . The processing engine may be processed by a computer processor on a computer. The user may also print operations from the user interface on the printer .

Exemplary processing in the system of is shown in . illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the invention showing computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches.

As shown in a method of computer information retrieval using latent semantic structure via sketches for the processing engine of may include a step of receiving an input n d matrix A with a computer. A step may include receiving an input parameter k. A step may include receiving a small constant eps where eps is greater than zero. A step may include generating a random d k eps sign matrix R. A step may include generating a random n k eps 2 sign matrix S. A step may include computing a matrix product A R. A step may include computing a matrix product S T A where S T is k eps 2 n matrix and S T I j Si j. A step may include computing S T A R. A step may include computing a Moore Penrose pseudoinverse C of S T A R. A step may include computing a singular value decomposition U Sigma V T of C where U is k eps k eps Sigma is k eps by k eps and V is k eps 2 k eps . A step may include outputting the three matrices ARU Sigma and V TS TA as factorization in applications. The outputting may be done for example on a computer display monitor or printer.

In possible embodiments the factorization may be used instead of singular value decomposition of A in latent semantic indexing applications. The entries in the sign matrices R and S may be generated using a cryptographic random number generator. The entries in the sign matrices R and S may be generated from a distribution with limited independence. The entries in the sign matrices R and S may be generated from a family of degree r polynomials for a low value of r that is determined in practice. The input n d matrix A may be specified row by row where one sees entries of A in an arbitrary order and an entry undergoes multiple updates. Each row n may be represented as a term and each column as a document. The input n d matrix A may be specified in a stream online where one sees entries of A in an arbitrary order and an entry undergoes multiple updates. The matrices may be multiplied in subroutines using standard matrix multiplication Strassen s algorithm and or the Coppersmith algorithm. The matrix A may be replaced with a function of the matrix A. Documents may be compared across different languages after analyzing a base set of translated documents.

In another possible embodiment documents may be clustered based on their cosine similarity in the concept space. After producting the factorization ARU Sigma V TS TA given a document d j the vector Sigma 1 ARU T d j may be computed. Given another document d  j the vector Sigma 1 ARU T d j may be computed. The two computed vectors may be compared using the angle between them.

Exemplary processing in the system of may be described with reference to . is a flowchart of an exemplary embodiment of the invention shown in showing an acquiring of S TA.

As shown in a step may include finding a decomposition of a term document matrix A by steps . A step may include obtaining a matrix S TAR such that S comprises an n k eps 2 matrix with random entries with values selected from the set 1 1 with eps comprising an error parameter. A step may include producing AR. A step may include acquiring S TA. A step may include outputting AR U Sigma V T S TA such that U Sigma V T comprises the singular value decomposition SVD of the pseudoinverse of S TAR . The outputting may be done for example on a computer display monitor or printer.

In another possible embodiment the factorization of the matrix A may be computed into three matrices ARU Sigma V TS TA . A plurality of diagonal entries may be dropped from Sigma. A number to drop may be determined based on an application.

In another possible embodiment the matrix A may be shared by two entities the first of which may have a subset of the entities with the second having a remaining subset. The entities of the matrix A may be locally sketched. The sketches may be communicated to perform factorization and faster latent semantic analysis. The communication is reduced by sending the sketches rather than the missing matrix entries of an entity.

In another possible embodiment a Moore Penrose pseudoinverse computation may be computed using one or more of an iterative method of Ben Israel and Cohen approximate matrix multiplication Strassen s algorithm Coppersmith s algorithm and Winograd s algorithm.

Exemplary user interface processing in the system of may be understood with reference to . is an exemplary block diagram of the invention shown in showing for a matrix A the computation of S T A S T A R and A R.

As shown in a matrix A may be input. A matrix product S TA may be computed. A matrix product S T A R may be computed. A matrix product A R may be computed.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more performable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be performed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be performed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Example embodiments may be performed with or without query processing.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to exemplary embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

