---

title: Systems and methods for providing mobile advertising and directory assistance services
abstract: Rich multimedia content is provided to a wireless device, particularly in response to a request for directory assistance generated by a client application. The multimedia content is provided as a multimedia message including bundled multimedia elements such as images, sound, text, and video files. The multimedia elements are compiled into a single multimedia presentation or deck that includes multiple screens that are automatically advanced for the convenience of the wireless device user. The user can interact with elements of the multimedia presentation, for example by placing orders, providing payment information, controlling playback, and forwarding or saving the deck to the wireless device. Multiple decks may be retrieved by a single request, and the decks are presented in an order determined by a bidding system or according to user preferences. Elements can be presented visually and/or audibly, and the user can interact using voice commands, manual entries, or stored entries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08140649&OS=08140649&RS=08140649
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08140649
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101208
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 118 800 filed Apr. 28 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 873 708 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 566 016 filed Apr. 28 2004 the entireties of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to wireless communications and in particular to systems and methods for providing mobile advertising and directory service to wireless handsets in a rich multimedia format.

As a convenience for users and an opportunity for marketers and wireless service providers the prospect of providing commercial directory assistance that includes promotional information is very desirable. Given the saturation of wireless devices today the expectation of convenience that users of these devices expect and the potential revenues it is not surprising that such a service is very desirable to all involved.

Attempts to provide mobile advertising and directory assistance are impractical and inconvenient or have otherwise fallen short of expectations. Most prevalent is the ubiquitous 411 directory assistance service that simply provides an audibly communicated telephone number for the requested merchant along with autodial features. Systems are being developed to supplement this most basic contact information with visible banner advertisements and the like. However existing systems are typically based on mobile messaging technologies such as WML Wireless Markup Language and WAP Wireless Access Protocol which provide static responses to directory assistance requests and cannot provide interactive presentations that include audio and animation.

Other systems rely on short range wireless transmission protocols that only communicate with wireless devices that are in proximity to a transmitter.

Still other systems require the user to connect to the Internet to view target advertising and or directory assistance data. In such systems a client computer system uploads a request for data to an Internet server. The data is provided as a universal resource locator URL address of a particular enhanced server that matches the client s request. The client computer system then launches a web browser and connects to the enhanced server to retrieve the requested data which may be displayed automatically. Such systems do not allow the client to save or forward the data and provide only limited capacity to automatically present a series of data elements as an orchestrated presentation including various screens.

Existing systems also fail to provide practical distribution channels for publishing advertising and directory assistance information for retrieval by a mobile station. Rather one approach is to equip each merchant or store with a transmitting and receiving system for broadcasting advertising messages to certain mobile stations. This approach is ungainly requiring expensive and redundant equipment that must be maintained and programmed by merchant staff.

There is a need therefore to provide current and location specific mobile advertising and directory information to wireless handsets in a rich multimedia format that is interactive easily authored and readily updatable.

The systems and methods of the various embodiments of the present invention address the shortcomings described above by delivering bundled advertising directory assistance and other multimedia content to a mobile communications device in response to a custom search query generated by the user of the mobile station. The bundled content is delivered to the user as an interactive multimedia deck in a wireless messaging format that can be administered and manipulated by the user. For example preferred embodiments enable the user to view store retrieve replay and forward all or part of the content comprising a particular deck. Furthermore content can be published in a variety of standard media e.g. text data executable code and images that can be retrieved by a user without being translated into a tagged format such as Wireless Markup Language. The systems and methods of the invention have the advantage of utilizing common message stores thereby facilitating interoperability with various mobile and fixed networks as well as the Internet. The invention also provides advertising directory assistance and other multimedia content in rich interactive presentation formats that can include animated images video and audio as well as text.

More specifically a host such as a directory assistance provider provides a user of a mobile station such as a cellular telephone access to a client side content delivery application CDA client possibly as a subscription service offering. The CDA client facilitates retrieval of content such as directory assistance data associated with one or more merchant providers of goods and services that are of interest to the user. The CDA client is a software application or other executable code that resides on the mobile station or is otherwise activated and controlled at least in part by commands issued from the mobile station.

The CDA client is preferably accessible via the primary user interface of the mobile station. The primary user interface can be any device or system that allows for the exchange of information between the user the mobile station and any remote processing and or communications systems. The primary user interface preferably includes a graphical user interface GUI such as a main menu that includes various text icons or voice prompts that enable the user to control the operation of the mobile station including applications such as voicemail multimedia messaging address book and system setup. The GUI includes means for receiving user input and means for providing output via other components of the primary user interface such as a keypad touch screen microphone speaker audio playback device printer joystick and the like. The CDA client is preferably launched by the user s interaction with the GUI using the input output components of the primary user interface.

In certain embodiments the directory assistance data includes rich multimedia content such as related animations video audio text and or graphical images. Examples of graphical images include photographs drawings advertisements coupons maps and logos associated with the merchants. The visual components of the multimedia content are preferably viewed by the user via a display means such as a screen that is integral to the mobile station or via a linked display device such as a heads up windshield display navigation system screen mobile video screen e.g. an onboard television screen in a vehicle or any other video or still image playback device directly or wirelessly accessible by the CDA client. The audio components of the multimedia content can be played via the mobile station speaker hands free system built in vehicle speakers or any other audio playback device directly or wirelessly accessible by the CDA client.

According to one aspect of the invention the content is specific to at least one location associated with the user of the mobile station. The content may be particularly relevant to the user s current location as established by information supplied by the user or via geographic positioning and data communication technologies such as the Global Positioning System GPS Assisted GPS AGPS or any other trilateration triangulation or telemetry technology including time delay of arrival and cell site identification techniques. Alternatively the content may be relevant to any location that is of interest to the user such as a location the user regularly visits or intends to visit in the future.

Another aspect of the invention is the user s ability via the CDA client to exchange information with a content server and to interact with the content delivered to the user s mobile station. In certain embodiments the user interacts manually via one or more input output devices such as a joystick keypad or touchscreen. In certain other embodiments the user interacts using voice commands that are interpreted by a computer or human intermediary. In still other embodiments both manual and vocal interaction takes place.

The user can direct the CDA client to retrieve specific content by providing one or more keywords or phrases as search criteria the search criteria including parameters such as the user s current or target location e.g. ZIP code city county state cross streets landmarks e.g. airports hotels highway access points and area codes category of goods or services desired merchant name merchant status e.g. search only merchants offering special deals or search only stores that are currently open and any other information that will limit the response to the search query to useful practical and desirable results. The search criteria can be spoken or manually entered using input devices. Predictive text or speech recognition technology can be implemented to reduce the amount of input required of the user. For example the user may save favorite searches or recent searches may be cached for easy retrieval.

The search criteria are communicated preferably as a search query to the content server via any suitable wireless voice or data communications protocol including but not limited to SMS USSD MMS or EMS.

In certain embodiments the content server or other intermediate relay platform maps the elements of the search query to specific content published in a publishing system. The content server can be separate from or integral to the publishing system. The publishing system then responds by providing the requested content for delivery either to the mobile station or to an intermediate network element preferably via the content server. The search query may be transmitted over any suitable wireless communications pathway or bearer such as a signaling data traffic or voice channel.

The response to the search query preferably includes information identifying bundled multimedia content that can be delivered to the user via any suitable existing or yet to be developed wireless data service protocol such as MMS EMS M GIC4 and WAP. For example the content can be one or more bundles of advertising and directory assistance data accessible to the user as an interactive list of hits indicating merchants that satisfy the search criteria.

Each entry in the list of hits identifies a bundle of multimedia content that is specific to that merchant hereinafter referred to as a deck. The deck can include various elements including contact information for the merchant an interactive e.g. AGPS navigable map audible or viewable directions scannable beamable forwardable or otherwise redeemable coupons video audio animation hyperlinks for accessing merchant websites merchant identifiers such as logos and a call to action interface. Text elements of decks can be translated to voice for audio delivery. The call to action interface notifies the user that the CDA client will autodial or send a message or other data to the merchant after a certain time elapses or in response to the user issuing manual or voice commands.

In the exemplary embodiments each deck includes a Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL file that includes all of the instructions necessary to define the manner of presenting the bundle of multimedia content in the deck via the CDA client. SMIL files are delivered and stored as multimedia messages or as parts of multimedia messages having the file extension .smil and define at least the following elements the layout of the presentation the timing of the presentation and the source of each element of the multimedia content. Each SMIL file is composed using a markup language that is based on eXtensible Markup Language XML and includes various tags. For example a SMIL file starts with a tag ends with a closing tag and must contain a element. The element contains the media elements. The SMIL file may also contain a element that stores information about the presentation layout and other meta information.

A deck may provide visual and audible access to all of the multimedia content from a single screen. Alternatively a deck can include several cards that display portions of the multimedia content. For instance one card may display the merchant s logo and play a promotional audio clip. Another card may include streaming video and audio elements of one of the merchant s commercials. Another card may display a coupon with a bar code or other scannable image. Another card may display an interactive map. Another card may display and or audibly communicate directions to the merchant s location. Each card includes one or more elements either alone or in combination.

The cards of a deck may automatically cycle such that the user sees and or hears one card for a certain time e.g. 10 seconds before the next card in the same deck is presented. The timing of the presentation including the cards of the deck may be predefined before the deck is delivered or may be variable according to the preferences of the user.

The deck preferably includes navigation controls that enable the user to halt accelerate or decelerate cycling of the cards to view a particular card in the deck or to advance to another deck either manually or using voice commands. Similarly multiple decks retrieved by the user may autoplay one after the other and the pages in each deck may automatically cycle as mentioned above.

The decks can be but are not necessarily delivered to the mobile station with the list of hits. Alternatively to conserve memory and network resources the list of hits can act as an interface for the user to issue a more specific pick query to the content router. The pick query allows the user to pick i.e. request delivery of one or more specific decks for storage in a memory of the mobile station. To this end entries in the list of hits may be accessible one by one or may include means for selecting such as check boxes or radio controls the selecting means enabling the user to request delivery of more than one deck at a time.

When a deck is actually delivered to the mobile station with the initial query or with a subsequent pick query the deck is preferably stored in the memory of the mobile station as a multimedia message. Advantageously the message can be wirelessly forwarded or transmitted directly to other mobile stations and can be uploaded to another mobile station or computer via a sync operation. Furthermore each message may include a flag or executable code that identifies the user for targeted updates or replacement of all or part of the message elements e.g. new coupons ads specials or for targeted advertisements such as additional text voice or multimedia messages. For example receiving delivery of a particular merchant s deck can trigger a mobile station to execute code that sends identifying information back to the content server. Then whenever the content published to the publishing system is updated a corresponding update is sent to the mobile station via the content server to either update or replace the deck that is stored on the mobile station.

In certain embodiments the search query and or list of hits can also be stored as a favorite search that can be subsequently accessed repeated or updated. Queries hit lists and decks may be manually stored by a user command or can be automatically stored in a temporary or permanent cache for later retrieval and or deletion. Queries hit lists and decks may be also be deleted automatically after a certain period of time according to memory reserves or after being viewed forwarded uploaded or issued.

Certain aspects such as the composition of queries organization of the list of hits and playback of decks may be according to the user s preference. Therefore another aspect of the invention is a user preferences module. The preferences module is preferably but not necessarily a software module or subroutine that is integral to the CDA client. The preferences module is accessible to the user when the CDA client is installed or set up for first use. The preferences module may also be accessible upon demand. For example the user may launch the preferences module to occasionally alter previously expressed preferences when launching the CDA client or via the primary user interface by activating a separate icon or command in the main menu of the mobile station.

Alternatively the list of hits may be organized according to a keyword bidding system. The host generates or maintains a list of keywords that describe commonly requested goods and services. The keywords are then marketed to merchants. A merchant may purchase or buy priority to one or more keywords that are applicable to the goods or services that that merchant provides. For example the word pizza may be a keyword.

In certain embodiments a specific pizza restaurant chain may purchase the pizza keyword from the host such that any user submitting pizza as search criteria receives a hit list that contains only decks that correspond to the purchaser s chain. The hit list received by the user may be refined and or ordered by additional search criteria in the user s query or preferences such as restaurant locations that are within a predetermined distance from the user s current or target location.

In certain other embodiments the aforementioned pizza restaurant chain may buy priority to a preferred slot in the hit list corresponding to this keyword such that any user submitting pizza as search criteria receives a hit list that contains decks that are ordered by priority. Purchase of the first slot entitles the purchaser to be the first pizza provider shown in the hit list. Purchase of the second slot may be less expensive and entitles the purchaser to be the second provider shown in the hit list. The decks may also be refined by additional search criteria such that the first slot purchaser may be omitted from the hit list if the first slot purchaser has no restaurants that fit the remaining search criteria. For example the user may specify only restaurants that are open now as additional search criteria. If the first slot purchaser s nearby restaurants are currently closed the second slot purchaser may appear first in the hit list followed by subsequent slot purchasers. In certain embodiments only the first few slots are initially viewable by the user. The subsequent slots and or merchants that are not participants in the bidding system may be accessible to the user by issuing an additional command such as by clicking on a more icon or issuing a voice command.

The successful purchase or slotting of a keyword can be accomplished by being the highest bidder in a keyword auction which is preferably held periodically. In addition to or in lieu of paying premiums for keywords a merchant may pay the host event driven fees such as a fee for every instance of a user downloading the merchant s deck or redeeming a downloaded coupon.

Alternatively the list of hits may be ordered according to the popularity of particular merchants. For example if the pizza restaurant chain is most frequently requested by name or if its deck is downloaded more often than any other restaurant or chain its deck may be displayed first in the hit list. To determine the popularity certain embodiments of the invention include systems and methods of statistically analyzing user queries and individual deck downloads.

As mentioned the list of hits can include clickable text and or graphical icons that function as predefined linkages much like hyperlinks by providing access to and or requesting delivery of the contents of a deck that is identifiable via the text or icons. The list of hits can also be communicated audibly to the user preferably in conjunction with voice response functionality that allows the user to select an entry replay the list and to stop and restart communication of the list. The hit list may also be communicated via a geographical map that is related to the user s current or target location and on which each hit is marked with clickable text and or graphical icons.

The present invention also includes systems and methods for redeeming a coupon delivered to the user in response to the search query. As mentioned above the coupon can be presented as a portion of a deck. The coupon can include a machine or human readable identifier such as a bar code encrypted or unencrypted data string or an audible or viewable passcode. The user may redeem the coupon in several ways. In certain embodiments the coupon includes an icon or other control that prompts the user to redeem the coupon wirelessly. Wireless redemption may take place via any known or yet to be developed short or long range wireless communication technologies including but not limited to SMS messages infrared data ports Bluetooth 802.11 or Wi Fi. For example the call to action interface may generate an SMS message indicating that the user intends to take advantage of the advertised special and requesting the merchant to prepare the advertised item for pickup or delivery to an address embedded in the redemption message or identified as a default address in the preferences module. In certain other embodiments the coupon is redeemable by presenting it in person at the merchant s location such as by showing the coupon displayed on or audibly broadcast from the mobile station or printed out as a hard copy or by allowing the merchant to scan a bar code or other machine readable means for optically or otherwise communicating data to a scanning device. In still other embodiments the coupon can be redeemed by placing a voice call to the merchant and reciting a coupon code or text included in the deck.

The present invention also includes systems and methods for ordering products and services from merchants by interacting with the content received for example in response to a search query. More specifically in these embodiments a deck that is delivered to the CDA client will include an interactive menu or other list of products or services. The user can interact with this menu for example by clicking on a menu item represented by a hyperlink or icon or by issuing a voice command e.g. order menu item 1 . This interaction triggers a transaction by which the user orders the menu item which may be any good or service including food and products. The entire transaction can be completed with a single command such as a click or several additional steps may be required including for example transmission of order details such as user identification information payment method fulfillment method e.g. pickup delivery and download quantity color size delivery address delivery date time and the like. In the single command embodiments information from a digital wallet stored on the handset may be transferred when the user interacts with the menu item. The digital wallet data preferably includes encrypted credit card and billing data and a default delivery address. Digital wallet data can be made available to the CDA client by upload transfer from or interface with other handset applications or data entry preferably via the preferences application. Alternatively the digital wallet data may be stored remotely either centrally e.g. at the host or with the user s favorite merchants. These single click embodiments require the user to perform a one time registration procedure either wirelessly via the Internet or in person to provide billing and delivery information for remote storage. When the user selects a menu item the CDA client passes user identification information such as a digital certificate or other unique identifier that identifies the user and retrieves the corresponding digital wallet data from the remote repository. If the remote repository is maintained by the host the digital wallet data is subsequently transmitted to the appropriate merchant along with the order preferably via a secure communications connection. If the remote repository is maintained by the merchant the merchant receives the order and the unique identifier and then retrieves the corresponding digital wallet data from the merchant s repository.

The user may be charged for using the CDA client. For example the user may pay a per use fee for each deck viewed or for each search query issued. To this end call detail records are generated and collected in the network for interface with a wireless service billing system that calculates the fee for receiving decks or for subscribing to the service. Alternatively the user may pay a one time or periodic fee.

In certain embodiments use of the CDA client is subsidized by the host merchant or some other party. If for instance the user is charged one dollar for each deck viewed a merchant can reimburse that dollar if the user redeems a coupon included in the deck or otherwise visits or patronizes the merchant s business pursuant to viewing the deck. The partial or full reimbursement can be credited to the user s wireless service account via the billing interface to the wireless billing system. The reimbursement can also be effected via a discount on goods and services issued directly from the merchant at the time of redemption.

Another aspect of the invention is the ability to selectively push multimedia content to a user that has not specifically requested that information. In the embodiments in which the user s location can be automatically determined using geographic positioning technologies such as GPS decks that are particularly relevant can be automatically and proactively delivered to the user. For example if the user is within five miles of the pizza restaurant and the user is moving less than 50 miles per hour then a deck from the pizza restaurant can be delivered informing the user of a special offer. As mentioned above multimedia content can be pushed according to the user s previous search queries and downloads as well as the user s preferences.

The preferences module preferably allows the user to opt in or out and to establish preferences for receiving pushed multimedia content. For instance the user can opt not to ever receive pushed content to receive pushed content once a month week day in one or more messages to receive pushed content only from certain merchants or certain merchant types or to receive pushed content real time i.e. as the content is generated or promulgated from the content server.

The invention also includes systems and methods for publishing multimedia content to the publishing system for retrieval via the content server and the CDA client. The content can be published to the publishing system by the host. Accordingly a merchant can submit content in a developed condition or can commission the host or another party to design and or develop the content for the merchant. The content is then published to the publishing system.

Alternatively the merchant can be provided direct access to the publishing system for self publishing. The host may also provide client software as a self publishing interface between the merchant and the publishing system. Self publishing allows the merchant to easily and efficiently generate and publish new content according to short term business needs. For example on a slow business day a merchant may push a deck to targeted users notifying the users of a sale.

The host or merchant publishes multimedia content remotely by accessing the publishing interface. The publishing interface facilitates compilation of the individual components of the multimedia content into cards and then into a deck. Compilation may occur on a client device maintained by the merchant or other publisher which then transmits completed decks to the publishing system. Alternatively the multimedia content may be forwarded as individual elements for compilation by the content server. The publishing interface may generate instructions for the publishing system to compile the elements into the desired deck. Decks and or publication information are preferably transmitted via a suitable data communication medium such as a wireless data network or the Internet.

The invention also includes systems and methods for providing the services detailed above for legacy telephones that do not have multimedia capabilities. Such legacy mobile stations can structure and send queries as text messages or dial content specific feature codes such as PIZZA on the keypad of the mobile station. Receipt of the query launches a remote application that performs the function of identifying the content that corresponds to the query and delivers an initial response in the form of a hit list. The hit list may be a text listing of more specific feature codes that correspond to particular merchants. When the user dials one of the feature codes the merchant s deck will be delivered as another text message. Alternatively the hit list may consist of one or more text messages each message corresponding to a particular merchant. To select a particular deck from the hit list the user simply responds to the corresponding text message. Although legacy mobile stations typically have very limited multimedia capabilities the content of the multimedia decks can be delivered in text format including special offers location based directions bar codes and contact information.

These and other objects features and or advantages may accrue from various aspects of embodiments of the present invention as described in more detail below.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein. It will be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples to illustrate aspects of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. In other instances well known materials or methods have not been described in detail to avoid obscuring the present invention. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but as a basis for the claims and for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

Particular embodiments of the present invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to the figures in which like numerals indicate like elements throughout the several views. The figures illustrate certain of the various aspects of exemplary embodiments of systems and methods for providing mobile advertising and directory assistance service to wireless devices in a rich multimedia format.

Although applicable to any existing or yet to be developed means for wireless data transmission including various wireless multimedia distribution protocols and networks the aspects of the present invention will be described with reference to the MMS Multimedia Messaging Service service environment in the context of a GSM air interface that uses GPRS General Packet Radio Service as means for establishing data paths. Examples of other suitable wireless and radio frequency data transmission means include networks utilizing Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM and various other 2 2.5 and 3G where G refers to generation and above wireless communications systems. Examples of other suitable means for establishing data paths include enabling bearers specified in standards defining Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and similar communications protocols.

Certain of the various systems and methods of the invention are directed to the performance of certain tasks including but not limited to compiling and formatting content for publication publishing content for retrieval by multiple mobile stations formulating a request for content issuing the request for content formulating a response to a request for content issuing the response to the request for content refining the request for content reissuing the request for content and delivering the requested content. Each of these tasks will now be described in greater detail with respect to the exemplary environment of and .

Populating the publishing system with content requires the authoring of multimedia and other data elements compilation of those elements into decks and formatting the decks into interactive multimedia presentations that can be incorporated into messages for retrieval by the content server and subsequent delivery to users.

Content can be compiled and formatted for publication in a number of ways and in several locations. In certain embodiments content is prepared either by the host or merchant using an authoring application that is integral to the publishing system . In other embodiments the authoring application is external to the publishing system and content is prepared remotely and subsequently transferred to the publishing system . Content can be published to the publishing system over the data network such as via Internet protocol IP sessions with the authoring application running on a merchant s or other publisher s system.

Various systems and methods for creating content such as multimedia files and objects are known and are contemplated as suitable for implementing the embodiments of the invention. The publishing system includes or interacts with an authoring application for compiling these files and objects into decks where a deck is a bundle of multimedia content that is specific to one merchant or to any other entity or affiliated group of entities. As a non limiting example a deck may be specific to one store one chain of stores or to all of the stores in a shopping mall.

The multimedia content comprising a deck can include any type of data object including text e.g ASCII audio e.g. Adaptive Multi Rate AMR QUALCOMM Code Excited Linear Predictive Coding QSELP WAV MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI images e.g. .jpg .gif or .png video e.g. .mpg and miscellaneous e.g. .vcard or .vcalendar . Furthermore multiple versions of the same multimedia content that comprises a deck can be published in different formats for compatibility with different types of mobile devices and with different types of wireless networks and protocols.

Once the objects are created the objects are available for compilation into decks preferably using the authoring application . The authoring application receives instructions from the author via an authoring interface which is preferably a graphical user interface that is accessible by the authoring application and or the publishing system either locally or on a remote client device. The authoring interface enables the author to direct the authoring application which actually designs and compiles the appropriate objects into a deck.

Each deck is scripted into an interactive presentation format using a presentation language that is preferably a component of the authoring application. Compilation and scripting of content may occur at least in part in advance such that a deck is at least in part prepared in advance of receiving a request for the content comprising the deck. Preferably at least another portion of the deck can be incorporated on the fly so that dynamic information such as door to door instructions real time special offers custom maps and request specific content can be added immediately before sending the deck to a requesting mobile station .

The content comprising a deck is compiled into preferably a single file that facilitates playback to the user in an orchestrated manner. To this end a deck is preferably created using one or more presentation languages usable for authoring interactive audiovisual presentations. Examples of suitable presentation languages include languages such as Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML Wireless Markup Language WML and the like. Authoring a presentation includes creation or retrieval of the multimedia content that comprises the deck as well as specifying the ordering transitions layout sequencing and timing of the audio visual and tactile presentation e.g. vibrate during playback of the deck.

The authoring application uses the presentation language to generate a set of scripting modules that functions as instructions for presenting the multimedia content as a deck. Thus these scripting modules preferably can be transferred with the multimedia content in a single message so that the message includes instructions and pointers that direct the mobile station preferably via the CDA client as to how to display the individual multimedia objects included in the content.

In certain exemplary embodiments the presentation language is SMIL. The elements of the bundle of multimedia content comprising a deck are assigned a number of attributes that control the manner presentation of each element and thus of the presentation as a whole. To define the timeline of the presentation the attribute is used to specify how long a particular element or group of parallel elements will be visible when the deck is played back via the CDA client . The element defines the sequence in which the elements or groups of parallel elements are displayed by listing elements as children in the desired order. The attribute specifies the number of repetitions for displaying the elements or groups of parallel elements. Any of these or any other SMIL attributes and elements can be fixed at any time include when the deck is authored or transmitted or can be variable parameters the values of which are established by user preferences expressed via the preferences module. For example the user may preselect preferences that dictate the value of variable parameters such as how long each page or card in each deck is displayed whether the map page is displayed first and whether each deck autoplays in a continuous loop until a command is given to proceed to the next deck.

The publishing system also includes a publishing server and a content repository for storing the published content for delivery to multiple mobile stations. The content repository is preferably a memory element of the publishing system and is populated with decks elements of decks and other multimedia content that has been or can be easily compiled into presentation format using the authoring application and or other applications within the publishing system . The publishing server is preferably a high speed processor and associated applications that respond to requests to add remove or update the content that is stored in the content repository.

The publishing server can also respond to requests for content that have been translated and relayed by the content server . The content server selectively requests and retrieves preformatted content from the appropriate publishing system for transmission to a mobile station according to the content of a search query generated by the mobile station . The content server receives the request for content preferably as a text message delivered over the text transport system performs any necessary translation or modification of the request for content to facilitate delivery over the data network and routes the request for content to the appropriate publishing system .

The search query generated by the mobile station forms the basis of a request for content. In preferred embodiments the search query is generated by interaction of a user of the mobile station with Content Delivery Application CDA client software that is resident on the mobile station . In the embodiments described herein the CDA client is an application developed in a programming language such as JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME although any programming language suitable for developing applications for wireless devices can be used.

To generate a search query the user of a mobile station accesses a GUI provided by the CDA client and enters keywords and other parameters that identify the type of content that the user wishes to receive. Examples of keywords include words or phrases that identify a particular merchant or other entity by name e.g. Pizza Joes a merchant type e.g. restaurant or movie theater or a product or service e.g. pizza or shoe repair . Additional parameters include location identifiers business hours and merchant status e.g. open now or open 24 hours .

The parameters can be entered manually by physically interacting with the GUI via an input device e.g. a keypad and in certain embodiments the parameters can be entered using voice recognition technology.

The search query can be very narrow including only one or two parameters such as merchant type and ZIP code or very broad including any number of parameters with varying degrees of specificity such as merchant name status or address.

The parameters are passed to the CDA client which then formulates the search query and generates the request for content. As an example the user enters the following parameters PRODUCT pizza and GEOGRAPHIC TARGET home preferably in predefined fields that are displayed. These parameters indicate that the user would like a hit list that contains merchants that provide pizza and that are within a predefined distance from the user s home address or ZIP code. The preferred distance is established by the user or by default in the preferences module of the CDA client and provides hits that fall within a predefined radius. The user s home address or ZIP code can also be established via direct entry into the preferences module or the preferences module can learn by prompting the user to save geographic targets as the targets are entered as parameters for searches. For instance the user may enter a particular ZIP code as a geographic target for a particular search. The CDA client automatically prompts the user DO YOU WANT TO SAVE THIS LOCATION either as a default or in a list of favorite geographic targets. As another alternative the user may transmit the search query without a geographic target and then may receive a response that includes a prompt for a geographic target.

Once the search query has been formulated the CDA client either proactively or in response to additional user commands issues the request by sending it over the access network to the content server .

In most implementations it is preferable to optimize the efficient use of the access network by issuing the request for content over the text transport system rather than the multimedia transport system . Thus the request is transmitted as a text message rather than as a multimedia message. The request can be transmitted via any suitable text messaging protocol examples of which include transaction oriented protocols such as SMS or session oriented protocols such as Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD . In alternative embodiments the request is issued over the multimedia transport system as a text only MMS message.

In addition to the search query the request includes a destination code that is appended by the CDA client . The destination code identifies the request as instructions that are to be routed to the content server . This destination code notifies a messaging service center i.e. SMSC in the embodiment shown in in the text transport system to forward the request to the content server . The request preferably also includes one or more origination identifiers such as an IP address domain name location information e.g. serving cell site or a telephone number associated with the mobile station .

The circuit switching platform performs higher layer functions such as call processing within the GSM network and between the GSM network and other voice data networks such as a public switched telephone network PSTN other public land mobile networks PLMNs and a packet switched public data network PSPDN such as the Internet or an Intranet or X.25 network.

In the embodiments associated with the packet switching platform is a GPRS Support Node GSN which consists primarily of hardware e.g. backplane switches interfaces and processors and software applications that administer GPRS protocols and perform session and mobility management. The GSN software applications include the Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN and or Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN 225 modules.

The physical or functional elements of the circuit switching platform may include a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AUC and a Mobile Services Switching Center MSC a Short Message Service Gateway MSC SMS GMSC a Gateway MSC GMSC an SMS Interworking MSC SMS IW MSC and a SMS Center SMSC . The HLR supports subscriber data management. The VLR contains temporary subscriber information that enables the MSC to provide communication services to users.

The functionality of SGSN and GGSN may reside in different physical nodes or may be combined in the same physical node or network element. The SGSN and GGSN preferably contain GPRS backbone network protocol internet protocol or IP routing functionality and are interconnected via IP routers. In certain embodiments the GGSN and the SGSN collect usage information that is utilized to charge the user for the user s access and usage of the mobile advertising and directory assistance services of the various embodiments of the present invention. In certain embodiments the mobile station is charged according to a tariff which may rate any access to the service according to any number of metrics including but not limited to the number of search queries issued the size and or quantity of the corresponding decks identified and or downloaded to the mobile station the size and or quantity of decks actually viewed the number or value of coupons redeemed or orders placed the types of merchants time of day or any other quantifiable variables.

The SGSN forwards incoming and outgoing payload data addressed to or from a mobile station that is attached within the service area of the SGSN . The SGSN may also function in the packet switched environment much like the VLR functions in the circuit switched environment. User information such as authentication triplets is exchanged directly between HLR and the SGSN .

The GGSN provides an interface with external IP packet networks such as the Data Network which in the exemplary embodiments is the Internet. Thus the GGSN also provides interconnect points to Internet Service Providers ISPs . From the point of view of Data Network the GGSN acts as a router for the IP address of each user. The GGSN also interrogates the HLR to obtain information regarding the location of the mobile station .

The GSM core network includes and interfaces with various physical elements of the GSM network including at least one base station system BSS . The MSC interfaces directly with base station system BSS which performs all radio related functions for the GSM network. Although numerous configurations are possible the BSS shown in includes one base station controller BSC and one base transceiver station BTS . The BSC is a functional entity that provides and controls the logical interconnection between the MSC and the BTS . The BSC may be physically located with the BTS or may communicate with the BTS via an interface such as an Abis interface. The BTS corresponds to a sector served by the BSS and consists primarily of radio equipment such as antennas and radio transceivers needed to provide a radio interface to mobile stations operating in a single cell. Monitoring and control functions for the GSM network are performed by an operation and support system OSS not shown .

It should be noted that the network elements shown are not necessarily physical elements but may be independent or integral functional elements of the GSM network the names of which often vary according to manufacturer. For example the VLR may be integral to the MSC . Furthermore the access network may include any combination of suitable communications protocols and media for exchanging information according to the systems and methods of this invention. Examples include but are not limited to TCP IP links Signaling System 7 SS7 links fiber channels wireless channels and any other suitable communications protocols and media now known or yet to be developed.

The request for content triggers a series of interactions between the user the CDA client the content server the authoring application and the publishing system . These interactions involve providing an initial response to the request for content i.e. the list of hits that identifies content that corresponds to the search query and delivering the requested multimedia content i.e. the decks identified by the pick query . The interactions take place using the Internet as the data network and a GSM network as the access network . The systems and methods supporting these interactions are described in more detail with reference to and .

In certain embodiments the initial response to the request for content is a list of hits that is delivered to the mobile station. This list of hits identifies decks that meet the criteria specified by the search query. In certain embodiments the list of hits is further limited by additional geographic criteria provided by the Presence Availability and Location Services PALS system.

The list of hits is interactive in that the user of the mobile station can craft a pick query by selecting one or more items from the list of hits where each selection identifies a deck that the user wants to download to the mobile station. This pick query is then sent to the content server which retrieves the selected decks from the publishing system for delivery to the mobile station .

As mentioned above with respect to the exemplary embodiments the decks identified in the search query and selected in the pick query are delivered to the mobile station as MMS messages. Preferably however these MMS messages are delivered differently from regular MMS messages which are delivered to an inbox or other message store in the mobile station . Rather MMS messages bearing the requested advertising directory assistance and associated multimedia content are distinguished from regular messages so that the CDA client recognizes responses to search and pick queries and automatically provides interactive access to and or launches presentation of the requested decks. Alternatively MMS messages bearing decks can reside along side other MMS messages in an MMS inbox although the decks are preferably easily distinguishable from other MMS messages.

Regular MMS messages are delivered to a mobile station via an MM1 Multimedia Messaging Reference Point 1 interface which defines the link between the mobile station and the MMSC . Certain embodiments distinguish messages directed to the CDA client by utilizing an alternative interface so that messages carrying decks are not deposited in the MMS inbox with other MMS messages.

The memory can be implemented using any suitable combination of readable writable and or re writable volatile e.g. dynamic RAM or static RAM or non volatile e.g. ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM optical ROM disk or flash memory elements. In general the memory is any device capable of temporarily or permanently storing data.

The application layer includes a User Agent UA such as a MMS client that preferably resides in the memory of the mobile station or on an external device not shown that is communicatively associated with the mobile station such as a personal computer or personal digital assistant PDA . The UA is an application layer function that provides the user with the ability to view compose and manipulate multimedia messages. The UA is also responsible for sending and receiving multimedia messages via the message transfer services of the appropriate network protocols.

Referring again to the device layer of the exemplary mobile station includes the physical and functional radio frequency RF components required for transmitting and receiving wireless communications. More specifically the device layer includes a receiver a transmitter and an antenna the various components and functions of which are familiar to those skilled in the art.

The application layer is operatively connected to the device layer such that the controller controls and or monitors the operations of the transmitter and the receiver which are both operatively connected to the antenna . The controller controls elements of the device layer according to the program instructions and or according operator input received via a user interface input output device such as any integral or remote combination of keypad and viewable display functionality.

In certain embodiments of the invention the CDA client is an executable software module that interacts with and can be integral to the UA . In other embodiments the CDA client is a separate application that resides in the memory or on a remote application server not shown . In certain other embodiments portions of the CDA client are remote and other portions reside on the mobile station . With the benefit of the description provided herein appropriate code to implement the functionality of the CDA client can be readily developed by one of ordinary skill in the art. The CDA client performs any combination of at least the following functions provides an interface for the user to enter a search query formats the search query for transmission to the content server receives the response to the search query displays the response to the search query as an interactive list or other compilation of results hits provides an interface for the user to navigate through the hits executes any code accompanying the content retrieved by the search query provides an interface for the user to retrieve access view and or interact with one or more decks associated with each of the hits provides an interface for the user of the mobile station to set or change preferences and receives updated content and associates the updated content with the appropriate deck or decks. The CDA client includes or interacts with a preferences module that may reside on the mobile station or remotely.

In the GSM context multimedia content is distributed in MMS message format. Thus the exemplary GSM network delivers the directory assistance and associated multimedia content as decks that are stored and possibly formatted into MMS messages at a MMSC Multimedia Messaging Service Center before being delivered to the user. Referring again to the decks alternatively may be compiled into MMS messages at the content server or in the publishing system .

Then each deck identified by the search query is retrieved by the content server and prepared for delivery. At step the content server maps the search query to the appropriate publishing system s which respond with specific data including decks that correspond to the search query. The publishing system may compile the elements of the decks on the fly according to the date or other characteristics of the request or according to the characteristics of the requesting mobile station or user. Compilation can include converting multimedia content e.g. converting images from .jpg to .gif format according to the capabilities of the mobile station. At step the content server forwards the mapped data via the MMSC. The message is addressed for delivery to the user s mobile station.

In the next step the content server initiates a WAP connection using any suitable data transmission protocol such as CSD or GPRS with the appropriate MMSC and in the next step sends the message s as the content of a WSP POST. In this manner at step a list of hits is delivered via the multimedia transport system as one or more MMS messages that are preferably delivered to the CDA client rather than into the regular MMS inbox. The MMSC accepts the message and issues a confirmation to the content server over the same WAP connection indicating message sent. The MMSC then pushes a message indicator to inform the user s mobile station that an MMS message is waiting. In certain embodiments this message indicator is processed by the UA while in certain other embodiments the message indicator is processed directly by the CDA client. The message indicator may include a tag that differentiates MMS messages that contain a response to a search query from other MMS messages. This tag ensures that responses to search queries are handled by the CDA client and are presented in a format such as that shown in . The mobile station retrieves the message by first initiating a WAP session using any suitable data transmission protocol such as CSD or GPRS and then by issuing a command e.g. WAP GET to retrieve the MMS message from the MMSC. The MMS message is sent to the mobile station receiver over the same WAP connection. Over the same WAP connection the mobile station posts a message received acknowledgement such as a WSP POST message. The MMSC informs the content router of the successful delivery such as by pushing a message delivered indicator which may in turn be forwarded to the content server.

Referring again to the flowchart at step the message indicator preferably consists of or links to a list of hits that is displayed in an organized fashion to enable the user to access each deck preferably in the same manner that the user would access a typical MMS message. In this embodiment each hyperlink corresponds to an MMS message that contains the deck identified. At optional step the CDA client generates and or transmits a flag or other identifier that can be used for marketing research and at step to push updates to decks.

According to one aspect of the invention the content is also prioritized by any number of parameters including but not limited to bidding position priority time elapsed proximity or by one or more user defined parameters.

As mentioned above a session oriented protocol such USSD is a suitable substitute for SMS as a vehicle for transmitting requests for content. To send a request via USSD the user can dial a feature code which calls a USSD server. This call launches a remote application on the USSD server which presents a response. The feature code must be specific to the search query that defines the content that is desired. For example to retrieve results related to pizza restaurants the feature code PIZZA might be dialed. On conventional keypads PIZZA is dialed by keying 74992 and then by pressing SEND.

Once the search query is entered to the user s satisfaction the user may click or say SUBMIT to transmit the query. The results page is generated in response to transmission of the search query as detailed above. The message indicator may be visible and or audible and can be any text light icon graphic or sound that notifies the user of the incoming or waiting response message s . Each entry in the list of hits includes a text or audio identifier that indicates the name of the merchant a descriptor that provides in brief additional information about the merchant such as its location its cuisine or type of product or service or its proximity to the target or current location an icon that graphically identifies the merchant such as a logo or the like and a selector control that allows the user to select the deck corresponding to the merchant for actual download or viewing if each of the decks listed have already been downloaded. Certain entries on the list of hits may be highlighted or emphasized by providing an accentuator that draws the user s attention to the accentuated entries. The accentuator may include any means for differentiating certain entries in the list of hits such as text color animation images sounds and the like. The hits may be differentiable by characteristics such as inclusion in the user s list of favorites popularity among all users association with special offers or coupons or satisfaction of search criteria such as range limits. The selector page also includes a control that instructs the CDA client to get the selected decks or to display additional hits .

As shown in the results page of the exemplary CDA client confirms the user s selection s by displaying a list of selected hits . If the user chooses to obtain a different list of selected hits the user can click or say SEARCH AGAIN to activate control to return to the search query page or GO BACK to activate control to return to the selector pages . If the current list of selected hits is satisfactory however the user responds to prompt by can indicating which of the hits the user wants to view first by touching or saying the identifier or otherwise identifying the chosen hit.

The next card in the exemplary presentation shows a map that is preferably specific to the user s current default or manually entered location. The map may be graphic and interactive such that the user may zoom or recenter the map by touching the map as well as by using ZOOM control and RECENTER control . Certain elements of certain cards carry through to selected subsequent cards in the deck. For example the merchant identifier may be shown on every card in a deck. Navigation controls and call to action controls such as the NEXT CARD control and the PLACE CALL control are also included as appropriate. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any of the controls can be graphically represented in any way such as by pushbuttons or icons. For example standard audio playback icons can be used to represent functions analogous to play analogous to AUTOPLAY pause stop return to results page or to search query page fast forward NEXT CARD rewind and skip NEXT HIT .

The next card in the exemplary presentation presents information regarding special offers and discounts. To that end card includes an element that communicates information about the special offers and discounts using text graphics video and or audio. The information element may be accompanied by a coupon identifying an offer or discount via any suitable means including a bar code redemption code or other information that must be communicated to the merchant wirelessly or directly to take advantage of the offer. To automatically redeem the coupon the user can preferably click or say REDEEM to initiate an automatic redemption process. The automatic redemption process may entail placing a call sending a voice message sending a text message sending a multimedia message and or beaming the coupon via a short range wireless protocol such as Bluetooth. The coupon can also be redeemed manually by simply showing the coupon to the merchant for a visual verification or scanning by an optical reader. Any other card in the deck including card can display a control that enables the user to jump to a product listing as well as a control that enables the user to send the deck as a message to another user or to another computer. As with all of the control elements control and can be activated verbally or manually.

Activation of control invokes the presentation to display card shown in which may also be accessed as a scheduled part of the presentation. Card includes a menu or other list of products that allows the user to review various product identifiers and descriptors associated with certain products and to place orders by entering quantities or other parameters further defining the order such as color size flavor and the like. The product or products ordered can be added to a virtual shopping cart by clicking or saying ORDER in association with identifying the desired product. The order is processed when the user clicks or says CHECK OUT . This or any other card may include an AUTOUPDATE control with which the user may indicate the desire to receive automatic updates to the current deck.

The checkout card shown in includes an audible and or visible order summary element that may include a confirmation of the cost and identities of the ordered items. The user can click or say DELIVER TO DEFAULT ADDRESS to schedule delivery of the items to an address established in the preferences module as the user s preferred address for delivery DELIVER TO NEW ADDRESS to access a field or prompt that allows the user to type or recite a new address for delivery FOR PICKUP to indicate to the merchant that the user will pick the items up or CALL ME to inform the merchant that the user intends to provide the information via a data or voice call. When the order details are complete the user can click or say COMPLETE ORDER to finalize the transaction.

As previously mentioned the various embodiments of the invention also include a preferences module that may be integral to the CDA client or can be remotely accessible via the mobile station or another computer accessed by the user of the mobile station. The preferences module presents a user interface that prompts the user to direct the CDA client the content server and or the publishing system as to how to process CDA initiated transactions and search queries as well as the search results and updates thereto. As examples and show user interface screens for entering preferences. Screen prompts the user to select a default address that is to be used as the user s location when the user intends to pick up an order from the merchant and a default address that is to be used as the user s location when the user intends to have the order delivered. For example when the user wants to pick up an order the user may want the search query to automatically locate the user to identify the decks that satisfy the search criteria which may include a geographic range. Several addresses may reside in the preferences application and with selector controls to indicate the user s preferences as well as a control for entering a new address. The user receives a prompt requesting the user to limit searches to a predefined radius with respect to the location used for the search.

Screen also prompts the user to specify how decks that have been returned as search results should be handled i.e. whether a deck that has been viewed should be deleted or saved. Using controls on screen the user may specify whether the cards of a deck should be autoplayed according to timing and sequence settings established when the deck is compiled. The user may opt to click or say NEXT after viewing each card to advance to the next card. Also shown on screen the preferences module prompts the user to allow or disallow pushed content including updates to decks and to specify the exceptions to the general rule. The user can choose from preestablished filters which may include disallowing all pushed information allowing nearby merchants to push advertising information allowing updates only to decks that have been retrieved with a previous search query and saved in the CDA client or accepting content only from certain merchants. In addition the user can activate the DEFINE FILTERS control to create any number of custom rules for pushed content.

The preferences module is also usable to create a digital wallet which may alternatively be created via the CDA client. The digital wallet can reside in any secure repository on the mobile station in the wireless network or in any remote database. Using screen shown in the user can enter and save multiple methods of payment including credit card numbers electronic funds transfer EFT information and associated addresses that may correspond to or be chosen from the list of default addresses designated previously. The screen includes a prompt or control that allows the user to add new methods of payment as well as controls that designate when a particular method of payment is to be used. For example the user may wish to pay with cash when picking an item up and with a credit card when the item is to be delivered. When the user has completed any or all of the pages in the preferences module the user may check or say SUBMIT .

Although described with respect to a CDA client resident on the mobile station the present invention can be implemented using completely session oriented applications. For instance USSD calls can be used to launch a remote CDA application on the USSD server or elsewhere. An initial feature code such as 1 launches the remote CDA application and the user then interacts with the remote CDA application to generate and transmit a search query and a subsequent pick query and to receive the selected decks in response to the pick query.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize analogous applications for alternative types of entities to benefit from the principles and teachings of the various embodiments. Rather than being merchant related a deck may consist of information related to non commercial entity including an individual or a non commercial organization such as a school. For example individuals might publish decks including multimedia data elements such as a photo collage a r sum or a personal advertisement. A school or a charity might publish a brochure. For any entity type therefore the published decks can be transmitted by the wireless service in response to directory assistance requests in the same manner as for merchant organization.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and describe every embodiment of the present invention. Thus those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the mobile advertising and directory assistance described represents only one example of the various wireless communications and configurations that will be suitable for implementation of the various embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is described by the claims appended hereto and supported by the foregoing.

