---

title: Memory resistor having plural different active materials
abstract: Methods and means related to memory resistors are provided. A memristor includes at least two different active materials disposed between a pair of electrodes. The active materials are selected to exhibit respective and opposite changes in electrical resistance in response to changes in oxygen ion content. The active materials are subject to oxygen ion reconfiguration under the influence of an applied electric field. An electrical resistance of the memristor is thus adjustable by way of applied programming voltages and is non-volatile between programming events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385101&OS=08385101&RS=08385101
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08385101
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
This invention has been made with government support. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Memory resistors or memristors are electronic constructs that exhibit an adjustable non volatile electrical resistance. This behavior makes memristors suitable for storage of digital and analog values instrumentation switching and numerous other applications. New types of memristors are sought after by virtue of their new or distinct operating characteristics. The present teachings address the foregoing concerns.

Methods and means related to memory resistors are provided. A memristor includes at least two different active materials disposed between a pair of electrodes. The active materials can form respective layers or be combined in an aggregate material. The active materials are subject to oxygen ion reconfiguration under the influence of an applied electric field. An electrical resistance of the memristor is therefore adjustable over a range by way of applied programming voltages and is non volatile between programming events.

In one embodiment an apparatus includes a memristor. The memristor includes a first electrode and a second electrode spaced apart from the first electrode. The memristor also includes at least two distinct active materials disposed between the first and second electrodes. Each of the active materials is characterized by a respective change in electrical resistance in response to a change in oxygen ion content. The memristor is characterized by a non volatile electrical resistance that is adjustable by way of programming voltages.

In another embodiment a memristor includes a first electrode and a second electrode. The memristor also includes a first material including oxygen ions disposed between the first and second electrodes. The first material is characterized by decreasing electrical resistance with decreasing oxygen ion content. The memristor also includes a second material including oxygen ions disposed between the first and second electrodes. The second material is characterized by decreasing electrical resistance with increasing oxygen ion content. The memristor is characterized by a non volatile electrical resistance that is adjustable over a range by way of programming voltages applied across the first and second electrodes.

In yet another embodiment a method includes operating a memristor characterized by at least two active materials disposed between a first electrode and a second electrode. The at least two active materials characterized by respectively different electrical resistance changes in response to changes in oxygen ion content. The method also includes applying a programming voltage to the first and second electrodes so as to change a non volatile electrical resistance of the memristor from a first value to a second value distinct from the first value. The method further includes operating the memristor at the second non volatile electrical resistance value.

Reference is now directed to which depicts an isometric view of a memristor . The memristor is illustrative and non limiting with respect to the present teachings. Thus other memristors can be configured constructed or operated in accordance with the present teachings.

The memristor includes an electrode or high conductivity conductor layer . The electrode can be formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material. Non limiting examples of the electrode material include copper aluminum silver gold platinum palladium titanium nitride TiN tantalum nitride hafnium nitride ruthenium oxide etc. Other suitable materials can also be used. The electrode is configured to define a memristor end area and an electrically conductive pathway .

The pathway is configured to electrically couple the memristor with another entity or entities such as another memristor electronic circuitry a controller a data or signal buss etc. The pathway extends away from the memristor in an illustrative direction. However it is to be understood that the pathway can lead away from the memristor along any suitable direction and may be linear curved serpentine and so on in shape.

The memristor also includes a first material . The first material is also referred to as a first layer or first active material . The first material can be defined by titanium dioxide TiO or another titanium oxide e.g. TiOor TiO . Alternatively the first material can be defined by manganese monoxide MnO or another manganese oxide e.g. MnOor MnO . Other suitable materials can also be used.

The memristor also includes a second material . The second material is also referred to as a second layer or second active material . The second material can be defined by manganese monoxide MnO or another manganese oxide e.g. MnOor MnO . Alternatively the second material can be defined by titanium dioxide TiO or another titanium oxide e.g. TiOor TiO . Other suitable materials can also be used.

In one embodiment the first material is defined by or includes TiOand the second material is defined by or includes MnO. In an alternative embodiment the first and second materials and are defined vice versa. In this way the present teachings contemplate any number of embodiments having layer wise constructs of alternating material types. The first material and the second material are in contact with each other at an interface .

The memristor further includes an electrode or high conductivity conductor layer . The electrode can be formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material. Non limiting examples of the electrode include copper aluminum silver gold platinum palladium titanium nitride TiN hafnium nitride tantalum nitride ruthenium oxide etc. Other suitable materials can also be used. The electrode is configured to define a memristor end area and an electrically conductive pathway pathway .

The pathway is configured to electrically couple the memristor with another entity or entities such as another memristor electronic circuitry a controller a data or signal buss etc. The pathway extends away from the memristor in an illustrative direction. However it is to be understood that the pathway can lead away from the memristor along any suitable direction and may be linear curved serpentine and so on in shape.

It is noted that the memristor is defined by a generally square or rectangular cross sectional shape. How it is to be understood that other embodiments respectively defined by other cross sectional shapes or form factors can also be used. Non limiting examples of such forms include elliptical circular triangular hexagonal etc. Furthermore other memristors not shown can be formed and operated according to the present teachings that have respectively varying longitudinal cross sectional areas e.g. hourglass ellipsoid etc. .

The first material and the second material respectively include oxygen ions and oxygen vacancies that are repositionable or migratable under the influence of an electric field. For non limiting example it has been found that the electrical resistance of titanium oxide decreases with decreasing oxygen ion content while the electrical resistance of manganese oxide decreases with increasing oxygen ion content.

Therefore both the TiOx layer and the MnOx layer become more resistive simultaneously under one voltage polarity and both of them become more conductive simultaneously under the opposite voltage polarity leading to a large ON and OFF conductance ratio. In this structure oxygen ions are accommodated inside the TiOx MnOx bilayer during switching operation and no oxygen gas is released from the device which improve device endurance. In addition some new switching behavior can be realized which does not utilize the interface resistance change for switching but utilize the bulk resistance change.

It is further noted that the interface is generally permeable to mobile dopants such as oxygen ions or oxygen vacancies. Oxygen ions or vacancies can be driven across the interface such that a distribution or profile within the first and second materials and is defined. These mobile dopants can be controllably bi directionally migrated between the first and second materials and under the influence of an electric field i.e. programming voltage etc. . In this way the oxygen vacancy profile and thus the overall electrical resistance of the memristor can be reconfigured during normal operations.

Table 1 below includes illustrative and non limiting characteristics for an embodiment of memristor . Other memristors having respectively varying dimensions characteristics or constituencies are also contemplated by the present teachings. It is noted that within Table 1 m equals 1 10meters and nm equals 1 10meters.

Attention is now directed to which depicts an isometric view of a two by two array . The array is illustrative and non limiting with respect to the present teachings. Thus other arrays and networks can be configured constructed or operated in accordance with the present teachings.

The array includes a first crossbar a second crossbar a third crossbar and a fourth crossbar . Each of the respective crossbars inclusive can be formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material such as for non limiting example copper aluminum silver gold platinum palladium hafnium nitride titanium nitride TiN tantalum nitride ruthenium oxide etc. Other suitable materials can also be used.

The crossbars and are disposed in spaced parallel adjacency. In turn the crossbars and are disposed in spaced parallel adjacency and are generally perpendicular to the crossbars and . Additionally the crossbars and generally overlie and are spaced apart from the crossbars and such that an elevational offset is also defined. Overlying proximity or cross over between any two crossbars is referred to as an intersection for purposes herein.

The array is also defined by four memristors located at four respective intersections of the crossbars. Specifically a first memristor is present at an intersection defined by the crossbars and . A second memristor is located at an intersection defined by crossbars and . A third memristor is located at an intersection defined by crossbars and . Furthermore a fourth memristor is located at an intersection defined by crossbars and .

Each of the respective memristors and can be defined by any suitable embodiment according to the present teachings. For example any one or more or all of the memristors can be substantially defined as described above in regard to the memristor . Other memristor embodiments as described hereinafter can also be used.

The array depicts a total of four memristors that can be individually accessed i.e. programmed or read by way of the corresponding crossbars . For non limiting example the memristor can be adjusted from a first non volatile resistance value to another non volatile resistance value by way of an appropriate programming voltage applied across the crossbars and . It should be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the electrical arts that other arrays having any suitable number of individually accessible memristors can also be defined and used. Thus the size of a crossbar array can be one thousand by one thousand or even larger depending on the embodiment applications associated circuit design etc.

The memristor includes an upper or first electrode and a lower or second electrode . The respective electrodes and are formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material. In one embodiment the electrodes and are formed from platinum. Other materials can also be used. The electrodes and include electrically conductive pathways and respectively such that the memristor can be electrically coupled to another entity or circuitry.

The memristor also includes a first active material . The active material is also referred to as a first layer or first material . The first material is formed from a suitable oxide having oxygen ions that are repositionable under the influence of an electric field. In one embodiment the first material is defined by manganese oxide i.e. MnOx . Other suitable materials can also be used.

The memristor further includes a second active material . The active material is also referred to as a second layer or second material . The second material is formed from a suitable oxide having oxygen ions that are repositionable under the influence of an electric field. In one embodiment the second material is defined by titanium oxide i.e. TiOx . Other suitable materials can also be used.

The memristor is also characterized by an interface defined by the contact area of the first material with the second material . Oxygen ions and vacancies can readily migrate across the interface by virtue of a programming voltage applied across the electrodes and . Direction and rate of oxygen or vacancy migration are controllable by way of programming voltage magnitude polarity and time i.e. electrical pulse length .

The overall electrical resistance of the memristor can be selectively adjusted over a range by way of applied direct current DC programming voltages. The electrical resistance is non volatile or nearly so in the absence of a programming voltage. The present resistance value of the memristor can then be read or sensed by way of a lesser sense current or voltage applied to the electrodes and . The sense current or voltage is small enough not to disturb the resistance states of the device.

The memristor is illustrative of any number of embodiments that include different active materials i.e. and arranged as respective layers between the electrodes and . Form factor and dimensions of the respective features or elements of the memristor can be varied. In one embodiment the memristor is defined by respective width length and thickness dimensions about the same as those described above in Table 1.

The memristor includes a first electrode and a second electrode . The respective electrodes and are formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material. In one embodiment the electrodes and are formed from platinum. Other materials can also be used. The electrodes and are defined by or include electrically conductive pathways and respectively.

The memristor also includes an aggregate or granular layer of material . The granular material includes two different active materials or oxygen bearing materials and respectively. In one embodiment the granular material includes manganese oxide MnOx and titanium oxide TiOx . Other combinations of two or more active materials can also be used. The granular material is formed such that the two distinct compounds of materials and are distributed generally uniformly throughout. The two distinct materials are selected so that the electrical resistance of one material decreases with decreasing oxygen ion content while the electrical resistance of the other decreases with increasing oxygen ion content.

It is to be noted that varying ratios of the two or more active materials can be used. In one embodiment the granular material includes about fifty percent TiOx and about fifty percent MnOx by mass. In another embodiment the ratio can be sixty forty etc. Additionally a granular material not shown can be defined including three or more active materials.

The memristor is characterized such that DC programming voltages applied across the electrodes and will cause a migration of oxygen ions from one active material e.g. to another active material e.g. . This migration is reversible by way of other programming voltages of opposite polarity. Direction and rate of oxygen or vacancy migration are controllable by way of programming voltage magnitude polarity and pulse length. In the memristor the migration may occur over a relatively short distance since one material is dispersed inside the other.

In this way the overall electrical resistance of the memristor can be selectively adjusted over a range by way of applied direct current DC programming voltages. The electrical resistance is non volatile or nearly so in the absence of a programming voltage. The present resistance value of the memristor can then be read or sensed by way of a lesser sense current or voltage applied to the electrodes and .

The memristor is illustrative of any number of embodiments that include different active materials i.e. and included within the aggregate or granular layer . Dimensions of the respective features or elements of the memristor can be varied. In one embodiment the memristor is defined by respective width length and thickness dimensions analogous to those described above in Table 1.

Attention is now directed to which depicts an elevation view of a memristor device according to yet another embodiment. The memristor is illustrative and non limiting. Other embodiments can also be defined configured and used according to the present teachings.

The memristor includes a first electrode and a second electrode . The respective electrodes and are formed from or include any suitable electrically conductive material. In one embodiment the electrodes and are formed from platinum. Other materials can also be used. The electrodes and are defined by or include electrically conductive pathways and respectively.

The memristor also includes a first active material . The active material is also referred to as a first layer or first material . In one embodiment the first material is defined by manganese oxide i.e. MnOx . Other suitable materials can also be used.

The memristor also includes a second active material . The active material is also referred to as a second layer or second material . In one embodiment the second material is defined by titanium oxide i.e. TiOx . Other suitable materials can also be used.

The memristor also includes a third active material . The active material is also referred to as a third layer or third material . In one embodiment the third material is defined by manganese oxide i.e. MnOx . Other suitable materials can also be used. The active materials are selected so that the electrical resistance of at least one material decreases with decreasing oxygen ion content while the electrical resistance of at least one another material decreases with increasing Oxygen ion content.

The memristor is also characterized by an interface defined by the contact area of the first material with the second material . The memristor is further characterized by an interface defined by the contact area of the second material with the third material .

Oxygen ions and vacancies can readily migrate across the respective interfaces and under the influence of a programming voltage applied across the electrodes and . Direction and rate of oxygen or vacancy migration are controllable by way of programming voltage magnitude polarity and pulse length.

The overall electrical resistance of the memristor can be selectively adjusted over a range by way of DC programming voltages applied across the electrodes and . The electrical resistance is non volatile or nearly so. The present resistance value of the memristor can then be read or sensed by way of a lesser sense current or voltage.

The memristor is illustrative of any number of embodiments that include two or more different active materials arranged as three or more respective layers between the electrodes. Active material species alternate in such a layer wise configuration so that different material types are in contacting adjacency or interfaced with each other.

Dimensions of the respective features or elements of the memristor can be varied. In one embodiment the memristor is defined by respective width length and thickness dimensions about the same as those described above in Table 1.

Reference is now made to which depicts a block diagram of a device according to another embodiment of the present teachings. The device is illustrative and non limiting in nature. Thus other devices circuits and systems are contemplated that include one or more aspects of the present teachings.

The device includes a memristor as introduced above. The memristor can be defined by any embodiment consistent with the present teachings. In one embodiment the memristor is materially and operationally equivalent to the memristor as described above. Other embodiments can also be used.

The device also includes programming circuitry . The programming or control circuitry is electrically coupled to the memristor and is configured to apply various DC programming voltages thereto. Such programming voltages can vary respectively in magnitude duration or polarity of application. The programming circuitry is thus configured to cause controlled changes in the electrical resistance of the memristor . The programming circuitry can be defined by or include any suitable components or configuration such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller digital circuitry analog circuitry a state machine etc.

The programming circuitry can also be configured to sense or read the present non volatile resistance value of the memristor by applying an AC sensing current thereto and determining the corresponding voltage drop. In such an embodiment the programming circuitry can also be configured to provide an analog or digital signal corresponding to the sensed resistance value.

The device further includes other circuitry that is electrically coupled to or includes the memristor . The other circuitry can be defined by any suitable circuitry configured to perform one or more normal operations that use the memristor . Non limiting examples of such operations include cellular communication environmental sensing instrumentation and control radio communication signal or data storage and retrieval etc. Thus the device can be generally defined by any one or more suitable areas of application e.g. a cellular telephone a data or signal router etc. . The other circuitry can be configured to communicate with or control at least in part operations of the programming circuitry .

Attention is now directed to which depicts a method according to one embodiment of the present teachings. The method of depicts particular method steps and an order of execution. However it is to be understood that other methods including other steps omitting one or more of the depicted steps or proceeding in other orders of execution are also contemplated. Thus the method of is illustrative and non limiting with respect to the present teachings. Reference is made to in the interest of understanding the method of .

At a device including a memristor is operated at a present electrical resistance value for the memristor. For purposes of non limiting illustration it is assumed that a device includes a memristor . The memristor is characterized by a present non volatile electrical resistance of two hundred Kilo Ohms. Other circuitry of the device is electrically coupled to or includes the memristor and operates normally according to the present non volatile electrical resistance value.

At a programming voltage is applied to the electrodes of the memristor. For purposes of the present illustration it is assumed that programming circuitry of the device is used to apply a programming potential across the memristor . Such a programming voltage i.e. pulse or signal can be defined for example by one point five volts direct current applied for one microsecond.

At the electrical resistance value of the memristor is adjusted by a desired amount in response to the applied programming voltage. For purposes of the present illustration it is assumed that the electrical resistance of the memristor is increased by twenty Kilo Ohms. The result is an overall electrical resistance of two hundred twenty Kilo Ohms for the memristor . Application of the programming voltage is now stopped.

At the device is operated normally with the memristor at the new electrical resistance value. For purposes of the present illustration it is assumed that the other circuitry operates normally in accordance with the new non volatile electrical resistance value established at above.

Reference is now made to which depicts a block diagram of a device according to another embodiment of the present teachings. The device is illustrative and non limiting in nature. Thus other devices circuits and systems are contemplated that include one or more aspects of the present teachings.

The device includes a memristor memory array controller controller . The controller is configured to address individual memristors of the device . Such addressing is performed by way of row control lines and column control lines . The controller is also configured to apply programming voltages to the memristors by way of the controls lines and .

The device further includes a plurality of memristors . Each memristor is defined configured and operative in accordance with the present teachings. In one embodiment one or more of the memristors is are materially and operationally equivalent to the memristor described above. In another embodiment one or more of the memristors is are equivalent to the memristor described above. Other embodiments can also be used.

The memristors are arranged as an X by Y array with each memristor being individually addressable and programmable by the controller . Each memristor can be operated as a storage cell representing a digital bit an analog signal level etc. depicts a total of four memristors arranged as an array. However it is to be understood that other arrays including any suitable number of matched or different memristors can also be defined and operated in accordance with the present teachings. Stacking the memristor array depicted in so as to construct a three dimensional memristor array is also possible.

In general and without limitation the present teachings contemplate various memristors i.e. memory resistors that can be applied to any number of circuits and device types. Each memristor includes two electrically conductive electrodes and at least two different active materials disposed there between. The active materials can be provided as respective layers or as constituents of a granular material or as a combination of homogonous layers and granular materials. At least one of the active materials is selected to exhibit increasing electrical resistance with increasing oxygen ion content while another of the active materials is selected to exhibit decreasing electrical resistance with increasing oxygen ion content.

Programming or control circuitry is used to apply various programming voltages of respective magnitudes polarities or durations to a particular memristor. The application of a programming voltage causes oxygen ions or oxygen vacancies migration between the respective active materials of the memristor. In general direction of mobile dopant migration is determined by the polarity of the applied programming voltage.

In turn the oxygen ion or vacancy distribution affects the electrical resistance of the memristor as a whole. In general the magnitude of the electrical resistance shift is determined by the magnitude and duration of the applied programming voltage while increase or decrease in electrical resistance is determined by polarity of the applied programming voltage. The electrical resistance value of the memristor is substantially non volatile i.e. constant between programming events. This non volatility is exhibited despite a total removal of electrical energy i.e. bias signals etc. from the memristor.

In general the foregoing description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments and applications other than the examples provided would be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the above description. The scope of the invention should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is anticipated and intended that future developments will occur in the arts discussed herein and that the disclosed systems and methods will be incorporated into such future embodiments. In sum it should be understood that the invention is capable of modification and variation and is limited only by the following claims.

