---

title: Gift campaigns in a social networking system
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for facilitating gift campaigns in a social networking system. An initiator of a gift campaign can select a recipient of a gift campaign as well as participants. Embodiments of the disclosure can facilitate selection of participants, collection of funds for the gift campaign and fulfillment of the gift to the recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152992&OS=09152992&RS=09152992
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09152992
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101227
---
Users of a social networking system may desire to give gifts to other users with whom they are linked and or connected. Many social networking systems do not provide integration with an electronic commerce system. Initiators and or participants of a gift campaign may be unaware of the scope of a recipient s network of friends and or acquaintances. Initiators or participants may also need assistance with suggestion and or selection of a gift to give to a recipient.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same. Users are often linked as friends acquaintances and or by a common interest and or interest group in a social networking system. As discussed herein a social networking system can also include any type of virtual user community blogging service microblogging service etc. in which a user has an identity. Users may wish to initiate gift campaigns where a gift is made to a recipient and where the gift campaign invites and involves participation from a number of other users to which the recipient is linked in some way via the social networking system. Users may also wish to be reminded of upcoming events associated with other users to whom they are linked for which a gift campaign may be appropriate such as a birthday anniversary etc. Embodiments of the present disclosure can facilitate a gift campaign on behalf of a gift recipient. Embodiments of the disclosure can also facilitate collection of funds from the various participants of the gift campaign as well as facilitate fulfillment of a gift e.g. a product from an electronic commerce system on behalf of the recipient.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The depicted networked environment illustrates one example of an implementation of a system according to an embodiment of the disclosure. It should be appreciated that embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in various ways. The networked environment includes at least one computing device a social networking system and one or more clients in communication over a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above. Additionally the social networking system can also be implemented in one or more computing devices.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device for example include an electronic commerce application a gift application social networking connector and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The gift application is executed to facilitate gift campaigns in a social networking system on behalf of an initiator of the gift campaign. The gift application can facilitate selection of users of the social networking system for participation in a gift campaign collection of funds selection of a product as a gift as well as completing a transaction in an electronic commerce system to fulfill the product to the recipient of a gift campaign. The gift application can also execute a gift suggestion engine that can facilitate the suggestion of products available via an electronic commerce system that can be purchased for the recipient on behalf of a gift campaign.

The social networking connector can facilitate communication with an application programming interface provided by the social networking system . The social networking connector can facilitate implementing an application within a social networking system framework. For example a social networking system can provide an application programming interface API with which users or other entities can develop applications. The API can subject to authorization of a user expose various functionality of a social networking system to applications using the API such as access to information about users their friends interests images videos etc. In one embodiment the social networking system can provide a container within a user interface generated by the social networking system with which an application can via the API populate content in a social networking user interface. In this way the gift application and or electronic commerce system can via the social networking connector and the API display content in a user interface generated by the social networking system .

In some embodiments the functionality of the gift application the gift recommendation engine and or social networking connector may be included in the electronic commerce application . In other embodiments the gift application gift recommendation engine and or social networking connector may be executed as a sub module of the electronic commerce application or as a separate standalone application etc. It should be understood that the depicted embodiment of an electronic commerce application the gift application gift recommendation engine and or the social networking connector is but one example. In other embodiments gift campaigns can be facilitated by the gift application among users of an electronic commerce application without interacting with a social networking system . The depicted embodiments illustrating interactions with users of the social networking system and connections of the users in the social networking system are merely examples.

Also the computing device can include at least one data store which may comprise data and applications operable to provide access to the data stored therein. It should be appreciated that the data store may or may not reside within a computing device but may be accessible via a network to the computing device . The data store can include a catalog which can include various information about products available via an electronic commerce system facilitated by the computing device . The catalog can include information about products such as but not limited to product descriptions product keywords categories stock keeping unit product search terms and other information or meta data as can be appreciated.

The data store can also include user data which can store information about users of an electronic commerce system facilitated by the electronic commerce application and or the computing device . User data can include for example user profile data which can include demographic information about a user shipping addresses telephone numbers payment information e mail addresses purchasing history product browsing history affinity groups with which the user is affiliated and other data related to users. User data can also include marketing information that is imported into the data store such as from a marketing database. As will be described in further detail herein the gift recommendation engine can generate gift recommendations by leveraging the data about users of the social networking system the gift application and or electronic commerce application .

The data store can also store data about gift campaigns . The data store can house information about an initiator recipient and or participants of a campaign . Campaign data can also include information about one or more products that are potential gifts for the recipient information about funds collected from the initiator and or participants and other data that will be described in more detail herein. The data store can also store one or more identifiers with which the campaign can be identified. In this way the gift application can facilitate fulfillment of a product for the recipient on behalf of a gift campaign by generating orders on behalf of the gift campaign identifier rather than on behalf of any particular customer. It should be appreciated that the depicted data store and the table structure shown therein is but one example given for ease of depiction and explanation of various embodiments of this disclosure.

The social networking system can include any type of user community a microblogging service etc. A user of the social networking system can have an identity and interact with other users of the social networking system publish content and take advantage of other functionality generally found within a social networking system. Users can have a direct connection to other users. In one embodiment a user can establish a direct connection within a social networking system with another user who is considered a friend. Users of the social networking system can also have an affiliation with a location interest groups topics or other non user entities. As one example a user in a social networking system can establish an association with a university or any other topic that interests the user and be connected with other users establishing the same association. As another example a user in a social networking system can authorize transmission of their location to the social networking system and the gift application can invite users into a gift campaign based on their location as well as affiliation as well as the initiator participant and or recipient. Other variations should be appreciated as should the general functionality of this and other examples of a social networking system .

A user of a social networking system can publish content that can be viewable to other users linked to the user. In some social networking systems for example the content can be available to friends followers and or users in the publisher s network. As some examples the user can publish text images video and other media which can be tagged with meta data such as but not limited to the identity of people or objects within the media. In other words a user can publish a feed which can be available to other users in the social networking system . Users can also be associated with a timeline and or a news feed which can among other things include information regarding other users with which they are associated in the social networking system . As some examples a timeline of a user can include information such as birthdays anniversaries and or other events associated with other users with which the user has a connection. Accordingly the social networking system can also maintain a user data store which can house information about the various users the social networking system . In the depicted example the user data store can store profile data as well as user associations . Profile data can include information that a user can define that describes the user s interests likes dislikes and other demographic and biographical information. User associations can include other users topics and or interest groups with which a user is linked.

The client is representative of a plurality of devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other content served up by the computing device and or other servers in which a social networking system user interface can be rendered. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond a browser such as for example email applications instant message applications and or other applications. Accordingly in some embodiments a user can manipulate a user interface presented in the form of network pages shown on a display device via the browser or other application that causes interaction with the social networking system and or computing device .

Another example of a client that can interact with the social networking system and or computing device includes a mobile device which can execute a mobile application such as a browser that can render network pages generated by the social networking system and or computing device . In another embodiment the mobile application can be tailored to access data provided by the social networking system and or computing device and can include client side code that generates a user interface on a display device of the mobile device.

Now that a general description of one example of various components in a networked environment have been given some examples of the ways in which they can facilitate gift campaigns in a social networking system are given. In one embodiment the gift application can provide an application within the social networking system that can allow a user acting as the initiator of the gift campaign to initiate the campaign on behalf of a recipient. In this example the recipient can be another user in the social networking system with which the initiator has a connection or affiliation. In some examples a recipient can comprise more than one user in the social networking system with which the initiator is affiliated. The gift application can also identify and or suggest additional users who can be invited as participants in the gift campaign.

The gift application can also suggest potential recipients of a gift campaign to an initiator based on various attributes of a profile in a social networking system associated with the initiator. In one example the gift application can retrieve data from a feed associated with a first user and detect for example an upcoming event such as birthday anniversary etc. of another user with which the first user is associated. The gift application can then suggest that the first user initiate a gift campaign for the user associated with such an event. The gift application can remind users of events associated with other users to whom they are linked via the social networking system e mail or other notification and suggest that a gift campaign be initiated for the user. The initiator and participants can contribute funds towards the purchase of a gift e.g. at least one product a gift card etc. that can be fulfilled from an electronic commerce system on behalf of the gift campaign for the recipient.

In some embodiments the initiator can select a product as well as designate a financial contribution that should be collected from the participants selected via the gift application . In other examples the initiator can select a product as well as designate the gift campaign as a variable contribution campaign where the amount contributed by the participants and or the initiator depends on the number of users who commit funds to the campaign. In other embodiments the initiator can allow participants to determine an amount that they are willing and or able to contribute to a gift campaign. In another example participants in a gift campaign can have voting input into the selection of one or more products to be fulfilled to the recipient as a gift.

To initiate a gift campaign on behalf of a user of a social networking system an initiator can cause the gift application to be executed via the social networking system . In one embodiment the gift application can provide one or more hyperlinks to users via the social networking system API which can allow the initiator to grant permission to gift application to access personal details about the initiator s profile data as well as user associations in the social networking system . The gift application can receive a request from the initiator of a user in the social networking system having a direct link to the user that is designated as a recipient of a gift campaign.

The gift application can then provide user interface elements via the social networking system that allow the user to select one or more participants that are users of the social networking system who can be invited to participate in the gift campaign. Participants can be other users who have a connection in the social networking system to the recipient and or initiator. In some embodiments the gift application can generate suggested participants for the initiator in a user interface element in which the initiator selects participants to invite into the gift campaign. The various ways in which participants can be suggested are discussed in more detail with references to herein.

The gift application can also allow a user to select one or more products to be purchased by or on behalf of the gift campaign and fulfilled on behalf of the recipient. In other words the gift application can facilitate fulfillment of one or more products as a gift for the recipient via an electronic commerce system. Accordingly the gift application can facilitate collection of funds from the initiator as well as the participants so that a gift can be purchased on behalf of the gift campaign using the funds.

In one embodiment the initiator of a gift campaign can designate a fixed contribution amount to be collected from the various participants as well as from the initiator. The initiator can also specify a campaign length or a deadline until which contributions will be accepted from invited participants. Accordingly the gift application can facilitate collection of funds from the various invited participants until the deadline. In one embodiment the initiator can then select a product that can be purchased using the funds collected on behalf of the gift campaign which can be purchased from and fulfilled by the electronic commerce application for the recipient. The electronic commerce application can then facilitate fulfillment of the product on behalf of the gift campaign to the recipient. The gift application can also collect various forms of contributions to a gift campaign such as but not limited to cash rewards points and other examples as can be appreciated. These various forms of payment can be associated with an electronic wallet associated with a user.

In another embodiment the initiator can designate the gift campaign as a variable contribution amount by selecting a total funds collection goal and or selecting a product whose price is known and the amount collected from the initiator and participants is dependent upon a total number of participants who commit to contribute funds to the gift campaign. In such an embodiment the initiator can designate a maximum individual contribution amount that a participant can contribute which can be reduced as the number of participants who commit funds to the campaign increases. In one example the gift application can perform a payment instrument authorization for the maximum individual contribution amount such as a credit card authorization. Upon the passing of a deadline when a final number of participants is known the gift application can then perform a payment instrument settlement for a contribution amount that is based upon the total number of participants including the initiator. In such a variable contribution gift campaign the gift application can also generate alternative gift suggestions if a contribution goal is not met or a sufficient amount is not collected to purchase a product initially selected by the initiator. The various ways in which gift suggestions can be generated are discussed in further detail below.

In another embodiment the initiator can specify a contribution deadline which can set a deadline for receiving commitments to contribute funds from participants in a gift campaign. Upon expiration of a contribution deadline the gift campaign can close and the amount collected from participants whether a fixed amount a variable amount or an amount that can be selected by participants can be used to purchase a product and or a gift card via an electronic commerce system for the recipient on behalf of the gift campaign. The initiator can also specify a contribution goal which can specify an amount which if collected can cause the campaign to close and a product purchased on behalf of the gift campaign for the recipient. A contribution goal can be based in part upon a price of a product selected by the initiator to be purchase for the recipient.

In other embodiments the initiator can select more than one product choice that could be purchased with the funds collected on behalf of the gift campaign and allow the participants to provide feedback or vote on a subset of these products that should be purchased on behalf of the gift campaign by the gift application for the recipient. As one non limiting example the recipient can select three product choices that can be purchased with the funds collected from the participants and the participants as well as the initiator can submit votes via a gift application in social networking system regarding their product choices. The gift application can also allow participants and or the initiator to provide comments regarding the various choices which can be published to other participants in the campaign. The gift application can tabulate the votes from the participants and purchase the highest voted product.

As one variation of the above example the gift application can allow the initiator to select product choices for voting prior to the collection of funds and then allow all potential participants to vote on a product choice prior to committing funds to the gift campaign via an application facilitated by the social networking system API . In this example the gift application can also weight a participant s vote based at least upon whether the participant has committed funds to the gift campaign as well as a relative amount the user has committed in comparison to other participants.

The gift application can also collect messages associated with a contribution of the initiator and or participants that can be included in a gift notification that can in turn be provided to the recipient. As one example the initiator and or participants can provide a gift message intended for the recipient via the social networking system in a user interface provided by the gift application . In one example these gift messages can be collected by the gift application and provided with a personalized message an electronic greeting card or other notification that is transmitted to the recipient via the social networking system electronic mail or other means as can be appreciated. In one embodiment the recipient associated with a gift campaign can also claim a gift purchased by the gift application on behalf of a gift campaign via a user interface provided by the gift application . As one example if a gift campaign purchases an electronic gift card for a recipient the recipient can claim the electronic gift card and associate the gift card with an account in an electronic commerce system.

Once the gift application has facilitated collection of funds from the various participants and or the initiator of a gift campaign the gift application can facilitate fulfillment of the product on behalf of the gift campaign for the recipient. In one embodiment as noted above the gift campaign can maintain an identifier that can be associated with the campaign in an electronic commerce system. The identifier can be associated with a customer that can be generated in the electronic commerce system and that represents the gift campaign. Accordingly the funds collected by the gift application from participants and or the initiator can be associated with such an identifier and a product can be purchased via the electronic commerce application from the product catalog on behalf of the gift campaign.

The gift application can collect funds from participants and or the initiator and associate the funds with a gift card or other type of account so that neither the initiator or the participants has ownership of the collected funds. In this way the collected funds can be associated with the gift campaign separately from any account of the initiator and or participant.

As noted above the gift application can execute a gift recommendation engine that can generate gift recommendations for a recipient. In one embodiment the gift recommendations can be based at least upon data that can be retrieved from the social networking system about a recipient participants and or the initiator. More specifically the gift application can via the API retrieve profile data associated with the recipient participants and or the initiator to generate gift recommendations. In one example the gift application can retrieve public profile information associated with a user and generate product recommendations having relevance to interest groups and or topics with which the user is associated. As one example if the gift application can determine that the recipient is associated with a basketball interest group and or topic in the social networking system the gift application can generate product suggestions from the catalog that are relevant to basketball as gift suggestions that can be presented to the initiator and or participants as choices for potential gifts. As another example the gift application can retrieve public profile information that reveals that a recipient likes a particular brand of product and generate product suggestions taken from the brand.

As another example the gift application can retrieve multimedia such as audio images and or video from the social networking system that is associated with a recipient of a gift campaign. The gift application can identify attributes of the multimedia associated with the recipient and identify products relevant to these attributes in the product catalog . As one example the gift application can identify an image in the social networking system published by the recipient and or in which the recipient may be tagged and attempt to identify products available via the electronic commerce application that are in the image. In one embodiment the gift application can perform edge recognition techniques to extract various objects from an image and or frames of a video. Accordingly the gift application can then perform image recognition techniques to identify various objects extracted from an image and or video frame and match the objects with product imagery associated with products in the catalog .

As another example the gift application can perform an audio recognition analysis of audio and or video published by the recipient and or in which the recipient is tagged and attempt to identify products such as songs or any spoken words that may be relevant to products available via the electronic commerce application . As yet another example the gift application can attempt to identify meta data associated with multimedia that is published by the recipient in the social networking system to identify a device that captured the multimedia e.g. camera mobile device etc. . Accordingly the gift application can then recommend products that are related to the identified device as potential gifts. For example if the gift application can identify a particular camera that was used to capture multimedia published in the social networking system by the recipient it can recommend accessory products and or updated versions of the camera as potential gifts.

Reference is now made to which illustrate various ways in which participants for a gift campaign can be identified based at least upon their relationship in the social networking system to the initiator and or recipient of a gift campaign. illustrates one non limiting example of relationships between various users in a social networking system according to various embodiments of the disclosure. In the depicted example the gift application can identify potential participants for a gift campaign by identifying users by their user associations in a social networking system that indicate a direct linkage between the recipient and the initiator. In this way in one example the gift application can identify mutual friends between the initiator and the recipient of a gift campaign and these users can be invited as participants in a gift campaign. Such a direct linkage can also be identified based upon membership in an interest group topic or other aspect of a user that can identified in profile data associated with the user in the social networking system by the gift application . In some embodiments the gift application can provide the initiator of a gift campaign with various options and or filters by which to limit the universe of users in the social networking system who are potential participants in the campaign.

The depicted social networking system user interface illustrates one example of a way in which the gift application can facilitate the creation of a gift campaign by an initiator. In the depicted example the gift application can via the social networking system API identify mutual friends or users in the social networking system who have a direct association with a recipient and the initiator. As described above the gift application can also allow participants in a gift campaign to invite users having a direct association with the recipient and a participant into the gift campaign. In this way the gift application can allow the initiator and or participants in a gift campaign to expand the scope of users who may be included in the gift campaign.

Referring next to shown are flowcharts that provide examples of the operation of a portion of the gift application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowcharts of provide merely examples of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the gift application as described herein. As an alternative the flowcharts of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

The flowchart of depicts an example of one way in which the gift application can facilitate a variable contribution gift campaign. In other words depicts an example of facilitating a gift campaign where the contribution amount of the participants and or the initiator depends on a final number of participants who join the gift campaign. As also described above the functionality of the gift application can be implemented in a social networking system through an API provided by the social networking system . Accordingly beginning with box the gift application can identify users in a social networking system as potential participants in a gift campaign associated with a user designated as the recipient.

In box the gift application can invite potential participants to participate in the gift campaign. As the depicted example illustrates an example of a variable contribution gift campaign in box the gift application can perform a payment authorization against a payment instrument such as a credit card or debit card an electronic wallet or any other payment device for a first amount. The first amount can be a minimum contribution amount designated by the initiator of the gift campaign or any other amount that has a relation to a product selected by the initiator a campaign goal selected by the initiator or any other metric as can be appreciated. In box the gift application can determine whether a deadline for potential participants to accept an invitation to participate in the campaign and or commit funds to the campaign has expired.

If such a deadline has expired then in box the gift application can determine a final number of participants who have accepted an invitation and or committed funds to the gift campaign. In box the gift application can perform a payment settlement for a final contribution amount that is based at least upon the final number of participants in the gift campaign. As described above the funds collected from participants and or the initiator can be assigned to a gift card and or other account so that the participants and or initiator does not have access to the collected funds. Accordingly in one embodiment a gift card or other payment device can be provided to the recipient of a gift campaign. In box the gift application can purchase one or more products which can include a gift card on behalf of the gift campaign in an electronic commerce system for the recipient of the gift campaign. As described above the product s selected for a recipient can be selected by the initiator of the gift campaign suggested by the gift application and or selected with input from participants in the gift campaign.

The flowchart of depicts an example of one way in which the gift application can facilitate a fixed contribution gift campaign. In other words depicts an example of facilitating a gift campaign where the contribution amount of the participants and or the initiator is fixed and or designated by the initiator. As also described above the functionality of the gift application can be implemented in a social networking system through an API provided by the social networking system . Accordingly beginning with box the gift application can identify users in a social networking system as potential participants in a gift campaign associated with a user designated as the recipient.

In box the gift application can invite potential participants to participate in the gift campaign. As the depicted example illustrates an example of a fixed contribution gift campaign in box the gift application can collect a fixed amount from one or more participants of the gift campaign. In box the gift application can purchase a product on behalf of the gift campaign in an electronic commerce system for the recipient of the gift campaign. As described above the product s selected for a recipient can be selected by the initiator of the gift campaign suggested by the gift application and or selected with input from participants in the gift campaign.

The flowchart of depicts an example of one way in which the gift application can facilitate a gift campaign that includes a contribution goal. In the example of the gift application can impose a contribution goal on a gift campaign after which the gift campaign can close to new participants. In box the gift application can identify users in a social networking system as potential participants in a gift campaign associated with a user designated as the recipient.

In box the gift application can invite potential participants to participate in the gift campaign. In box the gift application can perform a payment authorization for a first amount for participants committing to contribute funds to the gift campaign. In box the gift application can determine whether a contribution goal has been reached. If the contribution goal has not been reached the gift application can continue allowing users to commit funds to the gift campaign. Once the contribution goal has been reached the gift application can close the gift campaign to new participants and perform a payment settlement . In box the gift application can facilitate fulfillment of a product via an electronic commerce system for the recipient on behalf of the gift campaign.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the electronic commerce application the gift application and potentially other applications. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java Javascript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the electronic commerce application the gift application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the gift application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

