---

title: Artificial riboswitch for controlling pre-mRNA splicing
abstract: The present invention relates to riboswitches that have been engineered to regulate pre-mRNA splicing. In particular, the insertion of a high affinity theophylline binding aptamer into the 3′ splice site region, 5′ splice site region, or branchpoint sequence (BPS) of a pre-mRNA modulates RNA splicing in the presence of theophylline. Accordingly, the aspects of the present invention include, but are not limited to, theophylline-dependent riboswitches which modulate RNA splicing, methods of modulating RNA splicing using theophylline and its corresponding riboswitches, methods of improving/identifying theophylline-dependent riboswitches, methods of treating diseases associated with or caused by abnormal RNA splicing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE043000&OS=RE043000&RS=RE043000
owner: City of Hope
number: RE043000
owner_city: Duarte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100506
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 686 838 filed Jun. 1 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support in part by the Department of Defense Grant Number BC023235. The government may have certain rights in this invention.

The vast majority of structural genes in higher eukaryotes contain intervening sequences introns whose precise removal from the mRNA precursors pre mRNAs is essential for proper gene expression. Excision of introns from nuclear pre mRNAs is catalyzed by the spliceosome perhaps the most complex ribonucleoprotein RNP assembly in the cell Nilsen 2003 . A number of RNA RNA and RNA protein interactions involving five small nuclear RNAs U1 U2 U4 U5 and U6 and many snRNP and non snRNP proteins mediate the removal of introns and joining of exons Kramer 1996 Moore et al. 1993 Newman 1994 Nilsen 2003 Will and Luhrmann 1997 .

Pre mRNAs are spliced in a two step pathway involving two sequential transesterification reactions. In the first step pre mRNA is cleaved at the 5 splice site simultaneously generating two splicing intermediates a linear first exon RNA and an intron second exon RNA in a lariat configuration. In the second step the 3 hydroxyl group of the last nucleotide in the first exon makes a nucleophilic attack at the phosphodiester bond separating the intron and the second exon 3 splice site enabling the joining of two exons and the release of the intron as a lariat Kramer 1996 Moore et al. 1993 Newman 1994 Nilsen 2003 Will and Luhrmann 1997 .

In higher eukaryotes three distinct sequences direct the splicing reaction the 5 splice site RAGY the branchpoint sequence BPS YNYURC and the 3 splice site Y where a slash denotes a splice site N denotes any nucleotide R denotes purine Y denotes pyrimidine and underlining indicates the conserved nucleotide. During the early stages of the spliceosome assembly the 5 and the 3 end of the intron are recognized by intermolecular base pairing between U1 snRNA and the 5 splice site Seraphin et al. 1988 Siliciano and Guthrie 1988 Zhuang and Weiner 1986 and by the binding of U2AF to the poly Y tract 3 ss AG Merendino et al. 1999 Ruskin et al. 1988 Wu et al. 1999 Zamore et al. 1992 Zorio and Blumenthal 1999 respectively. Later in the spliceosome assembly U1 snRNA 5 splice site base pairing is disrupted and the 5 splice site is bound by U6 snRNA Kandels Lewis and Seraphin 1993 Konforti et al. 1993 Lesser and Guthrie 1993 Sawa and Abelson 1992 Sawa and Shimura 1992 Sontheimer and Steitz 1993 Wassarman and Steitz 1992 . The branchpoint adenosine is selected in part by intermolecular base pairing between the BPS and U2 snRNA and the RS domain of U2AF65 stabilizes this interaction Gaur et al. 1995 Valcarcel et al. 1996 . Recently a one step assembly of the spliceosome has also been reported Malca et al. 2003 Stevens et al. 2002 .

Pre mRNAs can also undergo alternative splicing to generate variant mRNAs with diverse and often antagonistic functions Black 2003 Clayerie 2001 Graveley 2001 Smith and Valcarcel 2000 . Alternative splicing of pre mRNA is now recognized as the most important source of protein diversity in vertebrates Maniatis and Tasic 2002 Mironov et al. 1999 Roberts and Smith 2002 Thanaraj et al. 2004 . It has been estimated that 35 60 of human genes generate transcripts that are alternatively spliced Johnson et al. 2003 Mironov et al. 1999 and 70 90 of alternative splicing decisions result into the generation of proteins with diverse functions ranging from sex determination to apoptosis Black 2003 Kan et al. 2001 Modrek et al. 2001 . Importantly the defective regulation of splice variant expression has been identified as the cause of several genetic disorders Dredge et al. 2001 Faustino and Cooper 2003 Garcia Blanco et al. 2004 Hull et al. 1993 Nissim Rafinia and Kerem 2002 Pagani and Baralle 2004 Phillips and Cooper 2000 and certain forms of cancer have been linked to unbalanced isoform expression from genes involved in cell cycle regulation or angiogenesis Krajewska et al. 1996a Krajewska et al. 1996b Novak et al. 2001 Steinman et al. 2004 Venables 2004 Xerri et al. 1996 . Therefore development of tools that could control pre mRNA splicing may have far reaching effects in biotechnology and medicine.

Initial efforts aimed at controlling pre mRNA splicing exploited the intrinsic property of nucleic acids to bind specific complementary pre mRNA sequence and inhibit modulate splicing Dominski and Kole 1993 . However susceptibility of antisense oligonucleotides to nuclease digestion off target effects and problems associated with the delivery and localization led to the realization that better methods are needed Heidenreich et al. 1995 . Bifunctional molecules that act like an antisense oligonucleotide but carry the binding site for a known splicing factor have proved to be useful in reprogramming pre mRNA splicing Cartegni and Krainer 2003 Eperon and Muntoni 2003 Skordis et al. 2003 Villemaire et al. 2003 . Although bifunctional molecules have overcome some of the problems associated with antisense based approach the need to include various chemical modifications limit their utility.

Notably all of the above mentioned approaches function in a constitutive manner i.e. an antisense oligonucleotide or a bifunctional molecule directed to inhibit the splicing will continue to do so as long as the oligonucleotide is available. Given that splicing of many pre mRNAs is regulated in a tissue or development specific manner Black 2003 Lopez 1998 to be able to switch off on the splicing would be of broad application in gene based therapy and functional genomics. Although a recently reported small molecule based approach which could activate splicing by simultaneously binding to a protein containing the splicing activation domain and a second protein bound to the pre mRNA has the potential to act as a splicing switch expression of heterologous proteins and maintaining small molecule protein interplay makes this approach complicated Graveley 2005 .

Accordingly there is a need to develop novel approaches to regulate RNA splicing or alternative RNA splicing in a condition specific manner.

One aspect of the present invention relates to artificial riboswitches that specifically regulate the splicing of their cognate pre mRNA in the presence of a condition that may affect or bind to the riboswitches. For example one embodiment of the invention relates to artificial riboswitches that show affinity to or are regulated by theophylline Jenison et al. 1994 wherein the theophylline dependent or theophylline binding riboswitches regulate RNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of regulating e.g. inhibiting or inducing the splicing of a pre mRNA e.g. AdML Theo29AG SEQ ID NO 6 in a theophylline dependent manner wherein the 3 splice site AG is embedded within the theophylline binding aptamer. In one embodiment the BPS to 3 splice distance as well as the location of the 3 splice site AG within the aptamer is designed such that it confers theophylline dependent control of RNA splicing. In a preferred embodiment the distance between BPS and 3 splice site AG is between 21 to 39 nucleotides e.g. 29 starting from the C of the BPS and ending with the G of the 3 splice site. In another preferred embodiment the pre mRNA splicing can be regulated in vitro in vivo or ex vivo. It is noted that theophylline mediated control of pre mRNA splicing is specific. First theophylline specifically blocks the step II of the splicing. Second a small molecule ligand similar in shape and size of theophylline has no effect on the splicing of pre mRNAs modulated by theophylline. Third theophylline fails to exert any influence on the splicing of a pre mRNA that does not contain its binding site aptamer . Finally theophylline dependent modulation of pre mRNA splicing is functionally relevant.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of optimizing the BPS to 3 splice distance so that theophylline can effectively modulate the pre mRNA splicing. The method comprises the steps of generating riboswitches of various distance between the BPS and the 3 splice AG measuring the effect of theophylline on RNA splicing in a pre mRNA containing the riboswitches.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modifying theophylline dependent aptamers so that the aptamers affinity to theophylline can be modified e.g. improved . The method comprises the steps of modifying nucleotides in a theophylline dependent aptamer designing pre mRNA embedding the modified aptamer and determining the level of RNA splicing.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of identifying aptamers that bind to theophylline preferably at physiological Mg concentration. The method comprises the steps of designing an aptamer and testing the aptamer s affinity to theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of developing theophylline dependent bifunctional molecules which can regulate pre mRNA splicing. The method comprises the steps of designing a bifunctional molecule where the molecule comprises an antisense domain to an exonic splicing enhancer and a theophylline aptamer wherein the binding of the antisense domain to the exonic splicing enhance reduces RNA splicing and the introduction of theophylline to a splicing reaction inhibits the binding of the antisense domain to the exonic splicing enhancer. In one embodiment the stability of a bifunctional molecule may be improved by using phosphorothioate or 2 modified nucleotides.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to bimolecular allosteric hammerhead molecules which are able to regulate pre mRNA splicing in a theophylline dependent manner.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of identifying theophylline like compounds or test agents. In one embodiment the method comprises the steps of providing a pre mRNA containing a theophylline dependent aptamer wherein the splicing of the pre mRNA is regulated in the presence of theophylline contacting a test agent with the pre mRNA and determining the level of pre mRNA splicing in the presence of the agent relative to the absence of the agent. In another embodiment the method comprises the steps of providing a cell or a subject containing a pre mRNA comprising a theophylline dependent aptamer wherein the splicing of the pre mRNA is regulated in the presence of theophylline contacting the cell or the subject with a test agent and determining the level of pre mRNA splicing in the presence of the agent relative to the absence of the agent.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing in a subject using theophylline and a theophylline dependent riboswitch. The method comprises the steps of introducing into a subject a pre mRNA containing a theophylline dependent riboswitch contact the subject with theophylline examining the modulation of pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of placing or inserting a theophylline aptamer into the 5 splice site and determining whether a theophylline dependent riboswitch would modulate the 5 splice site choice in the presence of theophylline. Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing comprising the steps of inserting a theophylline aptamer into the 5 splice site and modulating pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of placing or inserting a theophylline aptamer into the BPS and determining whether a theophylline dependent riboswitch would modulate pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline. Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing comprising the steps of inserting a theophylline aptamer into the BPS and modulating pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of treating a disease associated with abnormal RNA splicing or a fragment of mutated gene using a theophylline dependent aptamer. In one embodiment a vector containing the complementary sequence of a theophylline dependent aptamer is introduced into a cell or a subject. The vector may be transcribed to a pre mRNA and the splicing of the pre mRNA is dependent on the presence of theophylline. Theophylline or a theophylline like agent is contacted with or administered to the cell or subject and regulates the splicing of the pre mRNA. Consequently abnormal RNA splicing is corrected or inhibited in the presence of theophylline.

One aspect of the present invention relates to artificial riboswitches that specifically regulate the splicing of its cognate pre mRNA in the presence of a condition e.g. a ligand or a molecule that triggers the modulation of RNA splicing.

The term riboswitch used herein refers to a fragment of nucleic acids inserted by or linked with an aptamer such that the binding of an aptamer specific ligand or molecule to the aptamer would affect the activity of the fragment. One example of a riboswitch contains a sequence 3 to the BPS which comprises a poly pyrimidine sequence the 3 splice site and an aptamer that is inserted or linked to the 3 splice site region in a way that the pre mRNA splicing is affected or modulated in the presence of a ligand or molecule specific to the aptamer. Another example of a riboswitch contains a sequence 5 to the BPS wherein the sequence comprises an aptamer that is associated with e.g. inserted or linked to to the 5 splice site in a way that the pre mRNA splicing is affected or modulated in the presence of a ligand or molecule specific to the aptamer. Yet another example of a riboswitch contains a modified BPS wherein an aptamer is associated with e.g. inserted or linked to the BPS in such a way that pre mRNA splicing is affected or modulated in the presence of a ligand or molecule specific to the aptamer.

The aptamer used herein refers to a fragment or a domain of nucleic acid sequence that selectively binds to a ligand or molecule. The introduction of a ligand to a ligand specific aptamer causes conformational changes within the aptamer and influences nucleic acids adjacent to the aptamer.

In one embodiment of the present invention a riboswitch contains a theophylline dependent aptamer with a nucleic acid sequence of AUACCAGCCGAAAGGCCCUUGGCAG SEQ ID NO 10 and a ligand is theophylline B . For modulating mRNA splicing a ligand or molecule specific to an aptamer should meet some or all of the following criteria. First it should be able to bind its ligand binding aptamer with high affinity. Second ligand aptamer interaction should not require the assistance of any other factor. Third the ligand binding site the aptamer should be unstructured and only upon the binding of ligand should the aptamer undergo a conformational change or rearrangement. Fourth the ligand aptamer binding must be preserved under the conditions that support pre mRNA splicing. Finally the ligand should not affect the splicing of a substrate that does not contain its binding site.

A number of ligands such as tobramycin Wang and Rando 1995 neomycin Wallis et al. 1995 ATP Sassanfar and Szostak 1993 FMN Burgstaller and Famulok 1994 and theophylline Jenison et al. 1994 have been shown to bind RNAs that were evolved by in vitro selection Joyce 1994 . All of these ligands meet some of the above mentioned criteria e.g. the first three requirements . However since both ATP and FMN are cellular components and ATP is required for in vitro splicing a system based on these two molecules might interfere with splicing regulation. To assess the suitability of ligands the splicing of pre mRNA not having ligand dependent aptamer e.g. AdML 21AG pre mRNA Chua and Reed 2001 is examined in the presence of these ligands. As a result theophylline exerts no effect on the splicing of AdML 21AG pre mRNA see . Accordingly a preferred ligand is theophylline and a preferred aptamer is a theophylline dependent aptamer .

7 AC Y nNNNNAUACCAGCCGAAAGGCCCUUGGCAGN NN N n ranges from 11 to 27 N Neach denote any nucleotide N N are complementary to N N respectively SEQ ID NOs 7 56 71 

8 AC U NNNNAUACCAGCCGAAAGGCCCUUGGCAGN N N N n ranges from 11 to 27 N is any nucleotide N is complementary to N SEQ ID NOs 8 72 87 

9 AC Y NNNNAUACCAGCCGAAAGGCCCUUGGCAGN N N N n ranges from 19 to 23 N is any nucleotide N is complementary to N SEQ ID NOs 9 88 91 .

As shown below theophylline mediated inhibition of AdML Theo29AG SEQ ID NO 6 splicing is highly specific First theophylline inhibits the splicing of AdML Theo29AG by blocking the step II of the splicing. Second a molecule similar in shape and size to theophylline failed to elicit any effect on its splicing. Third the splicing of a pre mRNA that does not contain appropriately placed theophylline binding aptamer remained unaffected in the presence of theophylline. Finally insertion of theophylline aptamer 8 and 10 nucleotides downstream of the 3 or 5 splice site respectively failed to elicit any effect on the splicing.

However the introduction or insertion of theophylline dependent aptamer at the 3 splice site does not necessarily confer theophylline dependent regulation of pre mRNA splicing. Distance as well as the location of 3 splice site AG plays an important role in conferring theophylline dependent regulation of splicing. To investigate whether formation of RNA theophylline complex affects pre mRNA splicing a derivative of AdML Par pre mRNA Gozani et al. 1994 designated AdML Theo39AG that has a theophylline aptamer sequence 3 adjacent to the poly Y tract was used whereas the 3 splice site G is 39 nucleotides away from C marked as 1 . AdML Theo39AG is isogeneic to AdML Par Gozani et al. 1994 except that AdML Theo39AG contains a long uninterrupted poly Y tract followed by theophylline binding sequence and the AG dinucleotide at the 3 terminus of AdML Par has been deleted compare AdML par and AdML Theo39AG pre mRNAs .

To analyze in vitro splicing P labeled RNAs were incubated in HeLa nuclear extract under standard conditions that support splicing Gaur et al. 1995 . After incubation the splicing reaction was terminated and products were fractionated by electrophoresis on a 13 denaturing polyacrylamide gel. The wild type substrate as expected underwent both steps of the splicing reaction with normal kinetics as evidenced by the presence of lariat containing RNAs and spliced mRNA lanes 3 5 . Surprisingly the splicing of AdML Theo39AG substrate gave rise to the accumulation of lariat exon 2 suggesting that splicing was strongly affected at the second step compare lanes 3 5 with lanes 7 9 .

To rule out the possibility that the observed step II splicing inhibition in AdML Theo39AG might be due to a higher order structure formed by the presence of aptamer sequence a derivative of human globin pre mRNA H Theo41AG in which the 3 splice site AG is engineered to be the part of the theophylline binding sequence was constructed. The in vitro splicing of H Theo41AG pre mRNA also resulted in the inhibition of the step II of the splicing.

It has been previously shown that pre mRNA derivatives bearing mutations of the splice sites Aebi et al. 1986 Lamond et al. 1987 Newman et al. 1985 Ruskin and Green 1985 Seraphin and Rosbash 1990 or the branchpoint Freyer et al. 1987 Gaur et al. 1997 Hornig et al. 1986 Query et al. 1994 can undergo the first step of the splicing giving rise to a lariat exon 2 intermediate that is blocked for the second step. To examine whether mutation of the splice sites or branch point might be the cause of step II splicing inhibition AdML Theo39AG substrate was subjected to reverse transcription and PCR. The amplified DNA was cloned into pCR2.1 vector using a TA cloning kit according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer Invitrogen . Sequencing of 20 randomly selected clones revealed no mutations suggesting that a mutation of the splice sites or the branchpoint is not the cause of step II splicing inhibition.

To further investigate why AdML Theo39AG pre mRNA failed to undergo the second step of the splicing we examined the 3 half of the intron. As illustrated in the sequence encompassing the BPS to AG and poly Y to AG in AdML Par and AdML Theo39AG indicate striking differences. In AdML Par the 3 ss AG is located 23 nucleotides downstream of the BPS whereas in AdML Theo39AG this distance is 39 nucleotides compare A and B . In addition the poly Y to AG distance in AdML Par and AdML Theo39AG is 4 and 11 nucleotides respectively. Furthermore in AdML Theo39AG the sequence between the poly Y tract and 3 ss AG contains several purines. It has been previously proposed that a long BPS to AG distance and the presence of purine residues preceding the 3 ss AG not only affect not only the efficiency of the second step of the splicing but also the selection of the correct 3 splice site Chua and Reed 2001 Luukkonen and Seraphin 1997 Patterson and Guthrie 1991 .

To determine whether the aforementioned reasons could be the cause of step II splicing inhibition an AdML derivative with BPS to AG distance of 29 nucleotides and the sequence between the poly Y tract and AG bearing the substitutions of cytidine for guanosine was synthesized AdML Theo 29AG . The in vitro splicing results of this pre mRNA presented in demonstrate that lowering of the BPS to AG distance has indeed rescued the step II splicing inhibition. Quantification of this data indicates that unlike AdML Theo 39AG where less than 10 of the pre mRNA is converted into the spliced product 26 of AdML Theo 29AG pre mRNA is converted into mRNA compare lanes 7 9 with lanes 2 4 . Remarkably theophylline could efficiently inhibit the step II of the splicing in a dose dependent manner as evidenced by the decrease in the amount of the second step products i.e. lariat and mRNA compare lanes 2 5 with lanes 6 17 . This conclusion is further supported by the fact that in the presence of theophylline splicing of AdML Theo 29AG pre mRNA resulted in the accumulation of the lariat exon 2 . Quantification of the results presented in indicate that 0.5 mM theophylline was able to inhibit the splicing of AdML Theo 29AG by 50 and at 2.0 mM theophylline 75 inhibition was achieved. To rule out the possibility that the observed results are substrate specific a derivative of MINX pre mRNA Zillmann et al. 1988 MINX Theo28AG carrying the high affinity theophylline binding aptamer between the poly Y tract and 3 splice site AG was synthesized. The in vitro splicing of MINX Theo28AG pre mRNA indicates that theophylline RNA interaction could efficiently inhibit the step II of the splicing confirming the generality of this approach. Accordingly the BPS to AG distance plays a role in theophylline dependent modulation of RNA splicing.

Although lowering of BPS to AG distance from 39 to 29 nucleotides has relieved step II splicing inhibition in the absence of theophylline yet compared to the parent substrate the efficiency of the second step of splicing of AdML Theo 29AG remains low compare lanes 3 5 with lanes 2 5 . To assess whether further lowering of BPS to AG distance would improve the step II splicing efficiency two substrates AdML Theo 27AG and AdML Theo Stem21AG were constructed following standard PCR based cloning see materials and methods . In AdML Theo 27AG the BPS to AG distance is 27 nucleotides and the lower stem of theophylline aptamer contains only a single base pair . On the other hand the BPS to AG distance in AdML Theo Stem21AG is 21 nucleotides but the proximal AG is no longer located within the theophylline binding pocket .

The in vitro splicing of AdML Theo 27AG pre mRNA demonstrates that lowering of BPS to AG distance by 2 nucleotides not only failed to improve the efficiency of the second step of splicing any further compare lanes 2 5 but also this pre mRNA responded less efficiently to theophylline dependent step II splicing inhibition . In contrast lowering of BPS to AG distance to 21 nucleotides significantly improved the splicing efficiency of AdML Theo Stem21AG compare lanes 2 5 with lanes 1 4 . However like AdML Theo 27AG AdML Theo Stem21 AG pre mRNA responded poorly to theophylline dependent splicing inhibition while 0.5 mM theophylline was able to inhibit the splicing of AdML Theo 29AG by more than 50 a 4 fold higher concentration of theophylline could only result in 40 50 inhibition of AdML Theo 27AG and AdML Theo Stem21AG splicing C C .

These results can be explained in terms of the location of the 3 ss AG. In AdML Theo 29AG the AG proximal to the BPS is buried inside the theophylline RNA complex which makes its accessibility to the spliceosome as a 3 acceptor site difficult. This interpretation is in general agreement with the NMR structure of theophylline in complex with its aptamer which revealed that A28 the adenine of 3 ss AG participates in multiple interactions involving G29 and G43 Zimmermann et al. 1997 . These interactions not only add to the stability of RNA ligand complex but also likely interfere in the recognition and activation of AG as a 3 ss signal. In the case of AdML Theo 27AG although the AG is located inside the theophylline binding pocket the deletion of three base pairs in the lower stem apparently compromises with the stability of RNA theophylline complex. On the other hand in AdML Theo Stem21AG the presence of proximal AG outside the theophylline binding pocket enables its recognition as the 3 splice site relatively easier. Consequently the BPS to aptamer distance as well as the location of AG within the aptamer plays a critical role in conferring theophylline dependent regulation of pre mRNA splicing.

The selection and activation of AG as a 3 splice site is a complex phenomenon in which several step II splicing factors make functionally important contacts near the 3 end of the intron Chiara et al. 1997 van Nues and Beggs 2001 and references there in . The results presented in the previous section strongly suggest that sequestering of the AG within the theophylline RNA complex prevent such protein RNA contact s . If that is true then relocation of theophylline aptamer to a position that has no apparent contribution in the selection and activation of AG will have no effect on the splicing.

To test this hypothesis we decided to synthesize an AdML pre mRNA derivative termed AdML TheoExon 2 in which the theophylline binding site was moved eight nucleotides downstream of the 3 ss . The in vitro splicing results presented in demonstrate that AdML TheoExon 2 pre mRNA underwent both steps of the splicing with normal kinetics and unlike AdML Theo29AG addition of theophylline had no effect on the outcome of either step of the splicing compare lanes 6 17 with lane 6 14 . The splicing of AdML Theo 10 pre mRNA in which theophylline aptamer was inserted 10 nucleotides downstream of the 5 splice site also remained unaltered in the presence of theophylline data not shown . Thus only the functionally important elements of pre mRNA could be the target of theophylline dependent control of pre mRNA splicing.

It has been previously shown that in vitro spliceosome assembly on pre mRNA can proceed through one step assembly Malca et al. 2003 Stevens et al. 2002 or via a coordinated assembly of complexes E A B C with the catalytic steps of splicing occurring in the complex C Reed and Palandjian 1997 . In addition the efficiency of the spliceosome assembly and the intermediate steps can be monitored by native gel electrophoresis Konarska and Sharp 1986 .

To investigate the effect of theophylline on spliceosome assembly P labeled AdML Theo 29AG pre mRNA was incubated under splicing conditions in the absence or presence of theophylline. Aliquots were removed at various time points followed by the separation of complexes on native agarose gels according to the published protocol Das and Reed 1999 . In the absence of theophylline complex A was detected as early as 5 min and converted into B C complex thereafter. Complex B C appeared after 5 min and peaked between 15 30 min and after 30 min declined steadily. In the presence of theophylline the kinetics of complexes A and B C formation is not very different complex A appeared at 5 min and decreased thereafter. However the amount of complexes B C steadily accumulated compare lanes 4 6 with lanes 9 12 15 18 and 21 24 . In addition complex H which almost completely disappeared after 30 min in the absence of theophylline also accumulated even after 60 90 min of incubation compare lanes 5 6 with lanes 22 24 . Quantitation of these results presented in indicate that theophylline dependent inhibition of the step II of splicing leads to the accumulation of complex C which is consistent with previously published reports in which mutation of the 3 splice site Gozani et al. 1994 or the addition of boric acid both of which specifically inhibit step II of the splicing led to the accumulation of complexes B C Shomron and Ast 2003 Shomron et al. 2002 .

It is noted that the theophylline mediated control of pre mRNA splicing is highly specific. The extraordinary ability with which the splicing regulators discriminate between a specific and a non specific RNA target play a critical role in the precise regulation of pre mRNA splicing. For example both U2AF65 Zamore et al. 1992 and Sxl Sakamoto et al. 1992 are poly Y tract binding proteins and yet they utilize different mechanisms Banerjee et al. 2003 Singh et al. 2000 Singh et al. 1995 for recognizing polypyrimidine tracts and perform different functions while U2AF65 is a splicing activator Sxl is a repressor of splicing Valcarcel et al. 1993 . Thus before theophylline could be employed as a splicing regulator its specificity must be established. First theophylline should not affect the splicing of a substrate which does not contain its binding site. Second molecules that are similar in size and shape to theophylline should not inhibit the splicing of the pre mRNA that contains theophylline binding sequence.

To address the first issue we examine the splicing of AdML 21AG Chua and Reed 2001 a pre mRNA that does not contain the binding site for theophylline but otherwise is identical to AdML Theo 29AG Compare . The results shown in and C demonstrate that the splicing of AdML 21AG pre mRNA remained virtually unaffected even at the maximum tested dose of theophylline.

The second issue was addressed by examining the splicing of AdML Theo 29AG in the presence of caffeine . Caffeine differs from theophylline only by a methyl group at the N 7 position in the imidazole ring yet binds to theophylline aptamer with 10 000 fold lower affinity Jenison et al. 1994 . Uniformly labeled AdML Theo 29AG was incubated in HeLa nuclear extract in the absence or with increasing concentrations of caffeine and the products of the splicing reaction were analyzed by denaturing 13 PAGE. The splicing gel of shows that even at 2.0 mM concentration caffeine failed to elicit any noticeable effect on the splicing of AdML Theo 29AG pre mRNA. In contrast a similar concentration of theophylline was able to inhibit the splicing of AdML Theo 29 AG by more than 70 compare lanes 6 17 and B lanes 7 18 . Collectively these results suggest that theophylline mediated inhibition of AdML Theo29AG splicing is highly specific.

Alternative splicing plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression in higher eukaryotes. Alternative splicing is normally regulated by the regulatory proteins which bind to the specific regions of pre mRNA and enhance or repress the ability of the spliceosome to recognize the splice sites flanking the regulated exon Black 2003 Graveley 2001 . To demonstrate that RNA small molecule interaction could also regulate alternative splicing a model pre mRNA in which two 3 splice sites competing for a common 5 splice site was generated following standard molecular biology techniques AdML Theo 3 Minx . In AdML Theo 3 Minx pre mRNA the proximal 3 ss AG is embedded within the theophylline binding sequence while the distal 3 splice site is unmodified. It was contemplated that the binding of theophylline to its target will repress the recognition of the proximal 3 splice site thereby redirecting the splicing machinery to activate the distal 3 splice site. To test this uniformly labeled AdML Theo 3 Minx pre mRNA 10 fmol was incubated in HeLa nuclear extract in the absence or presence of theophylline. In the control splicing theophylline was replaced by caffeine. As illustrated in in the absence of theophylline both proximal as well as distal 3 splice sites were utilized to the same degree lane 2 . Importantly the addition of theophylline but not caffeine to the splicing reaction increased the ratio of distal to proximal 3 splice site. Quantitation of the data revealed that 0.5 mM theophylline increased the ratio of distal to proximal 3 splice site by 3 fold as compared to the control . These results indicate that theophylline RNA interaction can influence 3 splice site switch.

Similar experiments were run using pre mRNA substrates wherein the 5 ss rather than the 3 ss was embedded within the theophylline binding aptamer. Plasmids encoding three 5 ss embedded AdML pre mRNA derivatives AdMLTheo54Mut AdMLTheo57Mut AdMLTheo510Mut and AdMLTheo513Mut were constructed using a standard PCR based approach . The length of the lower aptamer stem in these substrates varied from 4 to 13 nucleotides. To prevent the activation of a cryptic 5 ss the GU s potential 5 ss upstream of the authentic 5 ss were mutated to GC. In a splicing assay theophylline was found to inhibit splicing of each of these 5 ss embedded substrates and C . The proximal to distal product ratio decreased in the presence of theophylline in the 10 and 13 nucleotide lower aptamer substrates and B . Theophylline induced alternative splicing in a dose dependent manner and B . In a subsequent spliceosome assembly assay theophylline was found to inhibit spliceosome assembly and B .

Controlling gene expression in living cells through theophylline RNA interaction. In the in vitro splicing assay theophylline RNA interaction has been shown to regulate pre mRNA splicing. To determine if such an approach could also regulate gene expression in living cells a splicing reporter was constructed in which the cDNA of AdML Theo29AG pre mRNA was inserted into the 5 UTR of green fluorescence protein GFP cDNA. It was contemplated that theophylline mediated inhibition of AdML Theo29AG splicing will prevent the export of GFP mRNA which will be mirrored by the lack of GFP expression. The reporter plasmid was constructed by standard molecular cloning approach. In brief a PCR amplified DNA fragment containing the entire AdML Theo29AG sequence was cloned into the EcoRI Sal I digested expression vector pEGFP N1 Invitrogen . The resulting reporter plasmid pAdML Theo29AG EGFP contains the cDNA of AdML Theo29AG pre mRNA fused 5 to the GFP coding sequence.

To examine theophylline mediated regulation of AdML Theo29AG splicing HEK293 cells were transfected with pAdML Theo29AG EGFP reporter using polyfectin following manufacturer s instructions Qiagen . Cells were grown and maintained in a humidified atmosphere at 37 C. under 5 CO2 in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium Cellgro supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum and antibiotics 100 g ml streptomycin and 100 U ml penicillin . For transfection cells 3 10 per well were seeded in a 24 well plate and incubated for 24 h 50 80 confluency at which time pAdML Theo29AG EGFP or pEGFP N1 was introduced. After 10 hours of incubation cells were treated with buffer or theophylline 0 to 1M and incubation was continued up to 48 hours. The GFP expression was visualized with a fluorescence microscope and cells were photographed with color CCD camera Olympus . We observed that the cells which were transfected with pAdML Theo29AG EGFP and treated with theophylline showed a dose dependent decrease in GFP expression . In contrast theophylline treatment had virtually no effect on levels of GFP expression of cells that were transfected with the control plasmid pEGFP N1 .

An RT PCR assay was performed to confirm that theophylline mediated reduction of GFP expression is due to the inhibition of AdML Theo29AG EGFP splicing and not the result of mRNA degradation. Total RNA was isolated from 3 10cells using trizol reagent. In a total volume of 20 l 5 g of total RNA was reverse transcribed RT using vector specific reverse primer GFPR 5 GTCGCCGTCCAGCTCGACCAGG 3 according to manufacturer s instructions Invitrogen Kit . Next an aliquot 2 l of RT product was subjected to PCR amplification in a 50 l reaction using 2.5 units of Taq polymerase vector specific forward GFPF 5 GCGCTACCGGACTCAGATCTCG 3 and reverse primer GFPR 5 GTCGCCGTCCAGCTCGACCAGG 3 . The amplified product was analyzed on a 2 agarose gel. As shown in theophylline repressed the splicing of AdML Theo29AG EGFP pre mRNA. Unlike the untreated control which generated 250 bp fragment theophylline treated cell yielded a PCR product corresponding to the size of unspliced RNA 350 bp . Significantly there is a direct correlation between the intron retention and the concentration of theophylline cf lanes 2 7 . Notably the RT PCR of RNA from the cells transfected with control vector yielded a smaller DNA fragment this vector did not contain AdML TheoAG29 pre mRNA . These results indicate that theophylline RNA interaction can regulate the splicing of a target gene both in vitro as well as in vivo.

As mentioned above another aspect of the present invention relates to the optimization of the BPS to 3 splice AG distance. It has been reported that the preferred distance for an AG to serve as the site for second transesterification step has been proposed to be 19 to 23 nucleotides downstream from the BPS Chua and Reed 2001 . Thus preferred pre mRNA for theophylline dependent splicing includes the one in which BPS to AG distance is 19 to 23 nucleotides and AG is located within the theophylline binding pocket. The sequences subject to the optimization include 

To test this a series of pre mRNAs will be synthesized in which the BPS to AG distance will be varied from 19 to 23 nt. Plasmids encoding these pre mRNAs AdML Theo19 21 and 23 AG will be constructed by inserting oligonucleotides into the Hind III and Sal I sites of pAdML Theo29AG to replace the sequences from the BPS to the entire theophylline binding sequence. Linearized plasmids will be used to transcribe pre mRNAs. Next P labeled pre mRNAs 10 fmol will be subjected to in vitro splicing in the absence or presence of theophylline as described in . The pre mRNA which in the absence of theophylline completes both steps of the splicing with normal kinetics and whose splicing is specifically inhibited by the addition of theophylline will be used in future experiments.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to the modification of theophylline dependent aptamers to improve their affinity for theophylline preferably in physiological relevant concentration of divalent metal ions e.g. Mg . As described above theophylline achieves partial modulation of RNA splicing . This could most likely be due to the differential metal ion requirements for the binding of theophylline to its cognate RNA and in vitro splicing reaction. While 5.0 mM Mg Jenison et al. 1994 Zimmermann et al. 2000 has been reported to be optimum for the high affinity RNA binding of theophylline 3.0 mM Mg has been found to be optimum for in vitro splicing Krainer et al. 1984 . Although the observed 70 repression of splicing is sufficient to influence splice site switch in many cases a complete repression may be desirable. Moreover it would be even preferable especially for in vivo applications if this could be achieved by using physiological relevant concentrations of Mg e.g. 3.0 mM .

To achieve high affinity theophylline aptamer binding at physiological Mg concentrations the RNA affinity of theophylline will be increased by introducing modifications in the existing aptamer. A large body of evidence suggests that modified nucleotides stabilize RNA structures by affecting thermodynamic and kinetic parameters Bevers et al. 1999 Proctor et al. 2004 . As a parallel approach we will employ in vitro selection to screen new aptamers that may bind to theophylline with high affinity and specificity at 3.0 mM Mg.

The NMR structure of theophylline aptamer complex indicates that a number of stacking interactions make important contribution towards stabilization of the RNA theophylline complex Zimmermann et al. 1997 . For example a base zipper which forms one side of the binding pocket and consists of residues U6 C22 A7 and C21 plays an important role in the stabilization of theophylline RNA complex . Likewise on the other side of the core G26 intercalates between the bases U24 and G25 . Additional interactions between A5 and U6 and A28 and G29 have been proposed to stabilize this complex . This model predicts that an increase in the hydrophobicity of U6 U23 or U24 residues should increase the stability of theophylline RNA complex. Indeed replacement of U24 by an unnatural base 5 phenylethynyl 3 D ribofuranosyl pyridin 2 one Ph y has been shown to significantly improve the stability of theophylline aptamer Endo et al. 2004 . Likewise an adenosine analog 2 4 phenylbutyl adenosine A 4cPh in which a phenyl group is linked to the adenine base has been shown to increase the affinity of a mutant U1A protein for U1 snRNA Zhao and Baranger 2003 . Thus it is conceivable that insertion of these modifications into the theophylline aptamer may improve its affinity for theophylline.

In addition one embodiment of the invention relates to a systematic analysis of the effect of these modified nucleotides on the RNA affinity of theophylline. For example a series of theophylline aptamers bearing the substitution of Ph y for U6 U23 or U24 will be synthesized by in vitro transcription following the published protocol Endo et al. 2004 . Because Ph y can be incorporated into the RNA only if the template contains an unnatural base 2 amino 6 2 thienyl purine opposite the site of Ph y incorporation T7 transcription templates containing 2 amino 6 2 thienyl purine at predetermined site will be synthesized as described in the literature Endo et al. 2004 . The aptamers with A 4cPh modification at position A5 A7 A10 or A28 will be synthesized following standard RNA synthesis protocol by substituting A4cPh phosphoramidite for adenosine phosphoramidite Zhao and Baranger 2003 . Since the phenyl groups in Ph y and A4cPh do not occupy the positions which have been proposed to be involved in the base triple interactions Zimmermann et al. 1997 these modifications may not interfere in the binding of theophylline. Once the RNA aptamers with the desired modifications are synthesized our next goal will be to determine the binding affinity of theophylline for modified aptamers. We will use equilibrium filtration technique to estimate RNA affinity of theophylline Jenison et al. 1994 . Among the sets of Ph y and A 4cPh modified aptamers that provide tight binding better than the wild type aptamer will be subjected to double substitution to determine if a further increase in the binding affinity can be achieved. In other words if determined that from the sets of Ph y and A4cPh modified aptamers U23 and A7 modifications respectively resulted into improved binding of theophylline then an aptamer bearing both U23 and A7 modifications will be synthesized and tested for its ability to bind theophylline. The aptamer with highest binding affinity will be used to construct AdML derivative following Moore and Sharp approach Moore and Sharp 1992 . First we will construct pre mRNAs as shown in . However if they turn out to be less effective then we will substitute the modified aptamer for the aptamer in AdML Theo29AG. Finally the splicing of the assembled pre mRNAs will be examined in the absence or with increasing concentrations of theophylline. If found that theophylline can achieve a complete or improved inhibition of the splicing that would suggest that the preexisting RNA structural information can be used to increase the binding affinity of theophylline.

Another embodiment of present invention relates to methods of designing screening isolating aptamers that bind to theophylline at physiological Mg concentration. It has been reported that in vitro selection can be used to isolate RNA aptamers which can specifically bind to a trans activation responsive TAR RNA at physiological magnesium condition 3.0 mM Duconge and Toulme 1999 . If an anti TAR aptamer could bind to a polyanionic target with high affinity Kd 30 nM and specificity it is conceivable that SELEX Joyce 1994 might also evolve an aptamer that would bind to theophylline with high affinity at physiological Mg concentration. The isolation of aptamers will be carried out according to the published protocol Jenison et al. 1994 except that selection will be performed in the buffer containing 3.0 mM Mg. Briefly the RNA populations pool of 10molecules will be generated by in vitro transcription from a DNA template containing a random cassette of 30 nucleotides . Because the coupling efficiency of dG and dT monomers is higher than dA and dC a pre made mixture of dA dG dC dT 1.5 1.15 1.25 1 will be used for the synthesis of random pool. This will prevent the overrepresentation of dG and dT in the random DNA library Huang and Szostak 2003 Marshall and Ellington 2000 .

Prior to in vitro selection 12 15 cycles of PCR will be performed with 0.2 0.4 mol of gel purified DNA library with forward primer 1 SEQ ID NO 37 and reverse primer 2 SEQ ID NO 38 primers which will bind to the constant segments . The initial DNA pool will be subjected to the second PCR amplification with the forward primer containing the T7 promoter sequence primer 3 SEQ ID NO 39 and the same reverse primer used in the previous PCR. RNAs will be generated by in vitro transcription using PCR amplified library and T7 RNA polymerase. Before the actual selection the starting pool will be heat denatured to disrupt potentially higher order structures. Next the RNA pool will be allowed to pass through the underivatized Sepharose column followed by the column containing theophylline linked Sepharose which will be prepared following published report Jenison et al. 1994 . The bound RNAs will be eluted by theophylline and then converted to cDNAs for further amplification by PCR. To increase the stringency of the selection process counter SELEX step will be included after washing bound RNAs will first be eluted with 0.1 M caffeine. Unlike previously reported protocol where 0.1 M theophylline was used for elution Jenison et al. 1994 buffers with step wise increase of theophylline concentration will be used. Initially we will start with buffers containing 10 20 M theophylline. The rational for using low concentrations of theophylline is to isolate only those RNA molecules that bind to theophylline with extremely high affinity. If 10 20 M theophylline failed to elute detectable amounts of RNAs elution buffer containing increasing concentrations of theophylline a step wise increase will be used. Each RNA population isolated from increasing concentrations of theophylline will be subjected to reverse transcription and PCR amplification separately. After 8 10 rounds of selection the double strand complementary DNA populations derived from each set will be cloned and sequenced. Finally the binding affinity of each class of aptamers will be estimated Jenison et al. 1994 .

Once a class of high affinity theophylline aptamer is identified we will determine the minimal sequence that may be sufficient for the binding of theophylline. To this end sequence motif that is common among the candidate aptamers will be identified and mfold program will be used to generate the secondary structure Zuker 1989 . With this information in hand aptamers bearing the deletion of non consensus sequences will be synthesized and evaluated for their affinity for theophylline. The aptamer s that bind to theophylline with high affinity preferably in low nM range at physiological Mg will be used to generate AdML derivatives essentially as described above. The new anti theophylline aptamer will not only be of direct use in the proposed studies but also be of general interest for generating theophylline dependent allosteric ribozymes and in the construction of highly sensitive biosensor for monitoring theophylline in biological samples.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to method of developing theophylline dependent bifunctional molecules which can regulate pre mRNA splicing. It has been demonstrated that a system based on theophylline RNA aptamer binding could be manipulated to regulate pre mRNA splicing. However such an approach may not be applicable for reprogramming the splicing of an endogenous gene. With the aim of developing a versatile approach which not only modulates pre mRNA splicing like an antisense RNA but also has the mechanism to switch on off the binding of antisense RNA it is contemplated that if an antisense oligonucleotide directed to bind an exonic splicing enhancer ESE were part of theophylline aptamer then the resulting bifunctional molecule would be modular in nature The binding of antisense domain to the ESE will repress the splicing of targeted pre mRNA whereas the addition of theophylline to the splicing reaction will induce a conformational rearrangement which will displace antisense RNA from its target. Thus the bifunctional molecule will function like an allosteric enzyme whose activity can be controlled by an effector.

To test this we designed a bifunctional theophylline aptamer in which the non conserved portion of the aptamer is complementary to the ESE present in the alternative exon M2 of the mouse IgM gene . The IgM pre mRNA is a well characterized substrate and its ESE is essential for the splicing of the preceding intron between exon M1 and M2 Tanaka et al. 1994 Watakabe et al. 1993 . To prevent non specific binding P labeled IgM pre mRNA and bifunctional aptamer were denatured for 1 minute at 90 C. followed by incubation for 10 min at 30 C. Next the splicing mixture with or without theophylline was added and reaction mixture incubated at 30 C. for 2 hours. After which the products of the splicing reaction were separated on a 13 denaturing polyacrylamide gel. shows that in contrast to a non specific control lane 1 the addition of 10 pmole of enhancer specific bifunctional aptamer was able to inhibit the splicing by 50 . However addition of theophylline and bifunctional aptamer together resulted in restoration of splicing compare lanes 2 and 10 and histogram in panel C suggesting that a theophylline induced conformation change has displaced the bifunctional aptamer from the enhancer.

It is noted that the bifunctional aptamer did not elicit a complete inhibition of splicing. Although increasing the concentration of bifunctional aptamer did improve splicing repression lane 2 5 but the efficiency of theophylline mediated restoration of splicing was also compromised suggesting that excess bifunctional aptamer likely titrated out theophylline. The observed incomplete repression of splicing might also be the result of nucleases assisted degradation of bifunctional aptamer. Incubation of P labeled bifunctional aptamer in HeLa nuclear extract confirmed that significant portion of the RNA is degraded not shown . We also observed that theophylline mediated reversal of splicing repression is impressive but requires 1.0 mM theophylline. A possible explanation to this observation could be that the free energy of theophylline aptamer binding may be insufficient to disrupt the Watson Crick base paring interactions between the antisense domain and ESE. High affinity binding of theophylline to its aptamer requires 5.0 mM Mg Jenison et al. 1994 and under in vitro splicing conditions at 3.0 mM Mg apparently weak interaction between theophylline and aptamer might have resulted into incomplete reversal of splicing inhibition. This may also be true for incomplete inhibition of AdML Theo29AG splicing .

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of improving the stability of bifunctional theophylline aptamer against nucleases. The high affinity theophylline aptamer identified will serve as the starting molecule to generate nuclease resistant bifunctional aptamer. A number of chemical modifications have been shown to increase the stability of both DNA and RNA against nucleases Kurreck 2003 . Modifications that have been shown to improve the stability of antisense RNAs will be tested to identify those that show maximum serum stability without compromising with the affinity for theophylline.

For example a bifunctional aptamer may be modified to improve stability by using phosphorothioate. One of the most important chemical modifications that have been widely used in classical antisense approach is the replacement of the phosphodiester backbone with phosphorothioate PS linkage Kurreck 2003 Vortler and Eckstein 2000 . Excellent water solubility reduced cleavage by nuclease relative ease of synthesis and improved bioavailability of P S modified oligonucleotides make them an attractive tool for antisense research. The phosphorothioate substituted bifunctional aptamer will be synthesized by standard in vitro transcription except that NTPs will be replaced by NTPaS. The resulting bifunctional aptamer will be tested for nuclease sensitivity by incubating in HeLa nuclear extract. Splicing assay will be performed with IgM pre mRNA.

Another example of improving the stability of a bifunctional aptamer is to use 2 modified nucleotides. The presence of 2 hydroxyl group in RNA makes it more susceptible to cleavage by nucleases Eder et al. 1991 Shaw et al. 1991 Tsuji et al. 1992 . Interestingly modifications such as 2 O methyl Monia et al. 1993 2 deoxy 2 fluoropyrimidines Kawasaki et al. 1993 and 2 O methoxyethyl 2 OMOE Chen et al. 2002 have been shown to increase the stability of RNA. Among them 2 deoxy 2 fluoropyrimidine has gained considerable attention. Compared to unmodified RNAs 2 fluoro 2 deoxy substituted RNAs are significantly more stable 10 10 fold and therefore more commonly used for the preparation of aptamers ribozymes and antisense molecules for therapeutic application Heidenreich et al. 1994 Kubik M F 1997 Pieken et al. 1991 . In addition to having resistance to nucleases 2 deoxy 2 fluoronucleosides prefer to adopt C3 endo conformation as in the case of ribonucleosides Aurup et al. 1992 Guschlbauer 1980 . Furthermore the commercial availability of 2 deoxy 2 fluoronucleosides both as a 5 triphosphate and phosphoramidite allow the synthesis of 2 fluoro substituted RNAs by chemical and enzymatic methods.

Pardi and coworkers Zimmermann et al. 2000 have shown that all but one 2 hydroxyl group U24 of theophylline binding aptamer can be converted to the 2 deoxy without having a noticeable effect on its affinity for theophylline. Thus it is reasonable to assume that replacement of uridines except U24 by 2 deoxy 2 fluorouridine may not have any negative effect on RNA affinity of theophylline. Bifunctional aptamer will be synthesized in which the 2 deoxy 2 fluorouridine will be substituted for uridine except U24 and the four terminal phosphodiester linkages will be replaced by P S group a report published by Eckstein and coworkers suggests that such a combination significantly improves the stability of hammerhead ribozymes Heidenreich et al. 1994 .

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a novel bimolecular allosteric hammerhead molecule which should be able to regulate pre mRNA splicing in theophylline dependent manner. In other words theophylline dependent bimolecular hammerhead ribozymes may be engineered to regulate pre mRNA splicing. It has been demonstrated that hammerhead ribozyme can be made to induce or suppress RNA cleavage in theophylline dependent fashion by appending theophylline aptamer to a non essential stem region Soukup and Breaker 1999a Soukup and Breaker 1999b Soukup et al. 2000 . It has also been shown that both hammerhead ribozyme Kuwabara et al. 1998 Kuznetsova et al. 2004 and theophylline aptamer Zimmermann et al. 1998 Zimmermann et al. 2000 could be assembled into their native conformations by using two RNA oligonucleotides. These properties of theophylline aptamer and hammerhead ribozyme will be exploited to generate an effector dependent hammerhead ribozyme which will regulate the splicing of a target pre mRNA without cleaving the pre mRNA.

The theophylline dependent bimolecular hammerhead ribozyme approach is outlined in . RNA A is the lower half of the theophylline dependent hammerhead ribozyme in which the 5 portion of stem I is complementary to ESE. The IgM pre mRNA and RNA A will be incubated in nuclear extract under splicing conditions. This will repress the splicing of IgM pre mRNA. This assumption is supported by the data presented in . The addition of both RNA B and theophylline but not individually to the splicing reaction will lead to the assembly of the active hammerhead ribozyme and restoration of splicing. Since the assembly of the active ribozyme has been reported to be dependent on the presence of theophylline Soukup and Breaker 1999a Soukup et al. 2000 the addition of either RNA B or theophylline to the splicing reaction may not revert inhibition. The prerequisite for theophylline dependent assembly of hammerhead ribozyme is the disruption of RNA A ESE duplex and an extended duplex might prove to be problematic. Thus initial experiments will be aimed at optimization of the length of the antisense domain of RNA A. The ideal antisense domain should be long enough to achieve repression but be displaced in the presence of theophylline and RNA B. We will start with 8 nucleotides which was originally employed to generate theophylline dependent allosteric ribozyme Soukup and Breaker 1999a . If determined that 8 nucleotides failed to provide splicing repression we will increase the length to 10 12 and 15 nucleotides.

To test the utility of the proposed approach the splicing of IgM pre mRNA will be examined. P labeled pre mRNA and RNA A will be annealed. After 15 20 minutes theophylline RNA B HeLa nuclear extract and other components of the splicing mix will be added followed by incubation at 30 C. for 2 hours. Control reactions without RNA B or theophylline will also be performed. Although 200 M theophylline has been reported to be optimum for the assembly of active ribozyme for the proposed assay the optimum concentration will be determined 0.1 1 mM will be tested . The products of the splicing reaction will be analyzed. It is expected that the splicing reaction performed in the presence of RNA A will not yield the spliced RNA. In contrast the reaction carried out in the presence of RNA A RNA B and theophylline will result into mRNA.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing in a subject using theophylline and theophylline dependent riboswitch. The experiments described in the application demonstrate that the aptamer selected in vitro could retain its target recognition property in a cell free system or when expressed inside the living cells. If theophylline RNA interaction could control a 3 splice site switch in a model pre mRNA it is reasonable to expect that it might also regulate the alternative splicing of a physiologically relevant trans gene in a subject e.g. a model organism . However before undertaking experiments in transgenic animals it will be prudent to test theophylline modulation with cultured cells or extracts prepared from such cells.

In one embodiment Drosophila cells are used for the test. Drosophila sexual differentiation involves a hierarchy of alternative splicing events which are the best characterized examples of alternative splicing regulation Black 2003 Cline and Meyer 1996 Lopez 1998 . The Drosophila protein sex lethal Sxl which is the master sex switch in somatic cells and only expressed in female flies regulates the alternative splicing of transformer tra pre mRNA Boggs et al. 1987 Granadino et al. 1997 Inoue et al. 1990 Sosnowski et al. 1989 Valcarcel et al. 1993 . Experiments in transgenic flies and with nuclear extracts prepared from HeLa as well as Drosophila cells have demonstrated that Sxl protein blocks the binding of general splicing factor U2AF to NSS 3 ss and thereby diverting it to activate the lower affinity female specific FS 3 splice site Inoue et al. 1990 Sosnowski et al. 1989 Valcarcel et al. 1993 . In contrast lack of Sxl expression in male flies leaves U2AF to bind to the NSS Py tract enabling the synthesis of a truncated non functional protein . Our hypothesis is that if the AG of NSS 3 splice site were to be the part of a high affinity theophylline binding site then binding of theophylline to its cognate sequence would sequester NSS 3 splice site thus allowing the activation of female specific 3 splice site.

To test theophylline mediated modulation of tra splicing a series of M tra derivatives carrying the high affinity theophylline binding site at various positions 5 to the NSS 3 splice site junction will be constructed and see below . M tra is a derivative of tra which was designed to overcome the low in vitro splicing efficiency of tra and has been shown to faithfully recapitulate Drosophila gender specific splicing in HeLa as well as in Drosophila nuclear extracts Valcarcel et al. 1993 . In addition M tra lacks exon 3 which is included in both sexes.

As outlined in an overlapping PCR approach will be used to generate M Theo tra derivatives containing theophylline binding site at positions 26 28 and 30. In the first PCR the portion of M Theo tra encompassing the first exon and non sex specific 3 splice site will be generated using forward Primer 1 and reverse primers Primer 2 . The forward primer will be specific for the first exon and the reverse primer will be designed to bind the NSS 3 splice site and carry the theophylline aptamer sequence. The second PCR will be carried out with a forward primer Primer 3 whose 5 end will be overlapping to the 3 end of the first PCR product and the reverse primer will be designed to bind 3 end of the second exon Primer 4 . In the third PCR the products of first two PCRs will be annealed and forward and reverse primers from the first and second PCRs respectively will be used. The gel purified PCR product will be cloned downstream of T7 promoter in KpnI BamHI digested pBluescript SK Stratagene to yield pM Theo tra37 pM Theo tra39 and pM Theo tra41. The plasmids pM mutTheo tra37 pM mutTheo tra39 and pM mutTheo tra41 each one carrying a mutation in the theophylline binding site and is expected not to bind theophylline will also be generated Zimmermann et al. 2000 . The authenticity of these constructs will be confirmed by sequencing.

To determine whether M Theo tra can recapitulate gender specific splicing of tra P labeled M Theo tra pre mRNA will be incubated in HeLa nuclear extract in the presence of theophylline or caffeine as described in . The splicing of M mutTheo tra will also be performed in an identical manner. The M theo tra derivative in which the addition of theophylline inhibits NSS 3 splice site with simultaneous activation of FS 3 splice site would be the desired substrate and will be used in future experiments. Additionally in the absence of theophylline or in the presence of caffeine this substrate is expected to undergo male specific default splicing. Finally none of the M mutTheo tra derivatives negative control are expected to undergo theophylline dependent 3 splice site switch.

It was further investigated whether theophylline could be used to regulate splicing of tra in a more physiological and biologically meaningful context for example in Drosophila Schneider cells SL 2 . Drosophila Schneider cells SL 2 which are known to be male with respect to Sxl expression provides an excellent model system for studying the underlying mechanisms that control the sex determination pathway Ryner and Baker 1991 . Before theophylline could be employed as a regulatory molecule it is important to determine whether theophylline has any adverse effect on the growth of Schneider cells. To this end Schneider s cells 2 10 per well were seeded in a six well plate in 3 ml Drosophila medium supplemented with 5 FCS and L glutamine Invitrogen . The cells were grown at 27 C. without CO2 in the absence or presence of theophylline. After 72 h cell were harvested and resuspended in PBS containing trypan blue 0.05 . The cells were counted using hemocytometer. Dead cells were identified by uptake of the trypan blue live cells by exclusion of the trypan blue marker. In the growth rate for Schneider s cells in the presence of indicated concentrations of theophylline an average of three identical experiments were performed in parallel is shown. The data indicates that even at the highest concentration of theophylline 2 mM the growth profile of majority of cells is not altered. Because 0.1 0.5 mM theophylline is sufficient to inhibit pre mRNA splicing Schneider s cells can be safely used to study theophylline dependent regulation of tra splicing.

It is contemplated that the M theo tra derivative which responds best to theophylline dependent gender specific splicing will be used in here. M theo tra will be subcloned downstream of metallothionein promoter in a Drosophila expression vector pRmHa 3 a generous gift from Juan Valcarcel. The expression plasmid pRmHa 3 is a pUC18 based vector and contains the promoter metal response element and transcription start site from the metallothionein gene followed by the multiple cloning site and the polyadenylation signal A from the Drosophila melanogaster alcohol dehydrogenase ADH gene. The Drosophila expression vector pRM mutTheo tra harboring an analog of M Theo tra which contains a mutation in theophylline binding site will also be constructed. The construction of these plasmids will be carried out following standard molecular cloning techniques. In brief PCR amplified fragments encoding M Theo tra or M mutTheo tra will subcloned into EcoR I Sal I digested pRmHa 3 to yield pRM theo tra. The authenticity of the inserts will be confirmed by direct sequencing.

Schneider cells will be transiently transfected with pRM theo tra pRM mutTheo tra or with empty vector pRmHa 3 . In brief Schneider cells 2 3 10cells well will be seeded in a six well plate in 3 ml Drosophila medium Gibco supplemented with 5 FCS and 50 g ml gentamycin. The following day cells will be washed with 2 3 ml of serum free medium and transfected with 0.5 3.0 g plasmid the total amount of DNA will be kept constant by using empty vector using CellFectin Invitrogen following manufacture s instructions. The amount of DNA and the transfection time will be standardized and the conditions that result in highest transfection efficiency will be used. After 18 24 h the DNA containing medium will be replaced by 3 ml of Drosophila medium and cells will be allowed to grow for another 24 h. At this stage theophylline or caffeine will be added and the transcription will be induced by CuSO4 0.7 1.0 g . After an incubation of 24 and 48 h cells will be collected washed with ice cold PBS total RNA will be isolated with PARIS Kit Ambion and analyzed by RT PCR. Since the timing of theophylline addition after transfection concentration of copper sulfate and induction time could affect the outcome of an experiment each of these factors will separately optimized. Although every effort will be made to maintain Schneider cells under optimal culture conditions according to the published protocol Bunch et al. 1988 cultured cells are known to change their properties with repeated passages. Therefore key findings obtained with Schneider cells will also be studied in other cell line such as Drosophila Kc cells.

It is contemplated that both pRM Theo tra and pRM mutTheo tra transfected cells untreated or treated with caffeine are expected to undergo male specific splicing i.e. the NSS 3 splice site will be activated which would be confirmed by 383 bp PCR product. Upon theophylline treatment pRM theo tra but not pRM mutTheo tra transfected cells is expected to generate female specific splicing 186 bp band in RT PCR 3. Finally pRmHa 3 vector only transfected cells will be negative in terms of M Theo tra splicing.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of placing or inserting a theophylline aptamer into the 5 splice site and determining whether a theophylline dependent riboswitch would modulate the 5 splice site choice in the presence of theophylline. Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing comprising the steps of inserting a theophylline aptamer into the 5 spice site and modulating pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of placing or inserting a theophylline aptamer into the BPS and determining whether a theophylline dependent riboswitch would modulate pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline. Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods of modulating RNA splicing comprising the steps of inserting a theophylline aptamer into the BPS and modulating pre mRNA splicing in the presence of theophylline.

In recent years tremendous efforts have been made in the development of tools that could manipulate gene expression at the level of transcription. For example sequence specific DNA binding of pyrrole imidazole polyamide oligomers has been exploited to control transcription Gottesfeld et al. 1997 . Likewise principle of chemically induced proximity has been used for the development of small molecule based approach for the regulation of transcription Belshaw et al. 1996 Ho et al. 1996 . Although controlling gene expression at the level of transcription is useful to be able to control pre mRNA splicing will have many applications in biology and medicine. For instance a theophylline dependent trans gene whose expression is turned on off at a specific time in the development can be used to study the function of a developmentally regulated gene. Similarly if a gene of interest encodes a transcription factor a trans gene could be designed so that its alternative splicing modulated by theophylline would generate mRNAs encoding transcription activator and repressor molecules that bind to the same sequence of the promoter.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to riboswitch and a small molecule based approach for controlling gene expression at the level of splicing. The approach is based on the principle of riboswitch in which the binding of a small molecule ligand to the specific RNA sequence leads to the formation of a stem loop structure that either terminates transcription prematurely or sequesters the Shine Dalgarno sequence and inhibits translation initiation Nudler and Mironov 2004 . Since aptamers can also bind small molecule ligands it is interestingly found that insertion of an aptamer within the 3 splice site region of a pre mRNA generates an artificial riboswitch that may enable ligand specific control of pre mRNA splicing.

A series of model pre mRNAs in which the 3 splice site AG was engineered to be the part of theophylline binding aptamer were constructed and tested for their ability to undergo pre mRNA splicing in the absence or presence of theophylline . These substrates differ in terms of the BPS to AG distance and the location of the 3 splice site AG within the theophylline binding aptamer. In AdML Theo39AG step II of splicing was nearly abolished in the absence of theophylline lanes 6 9 and our observation that lowering of the BPS to AG distance by 10 AdML Theo29AG or 12 nucleotides AdML Theo27AG rescued this inhibition is consistent with the previously published reports which suggest that 1. Although the normal BPS to AG distance in vertebrates is 18 40 nucleotides utilization of an AG farther than 30 nucleotides downstream of the BPS significantly reduces the efficiency of the second step of the splicing Chua and Reed 2001 and 2. Insertion of pyrimidines upstream of such an AG alleviates the poor step II splicing Chiara et al. 1997 Patterson and Guthrie 1991 .

Experimental data included herein indicate that AdML Theo29AG AdML Theo27AG and AdML Theo Stem21AG pre mRNAs conferred theophylline dependent control of splicing albeit with varying degree also see below . While 0.5 mM theophylline was able to inhibit the splicing of AdML Theo29AG by more than 50 a 4 fold higher concentration of theophylline was required to achieve the same level of inhibition in AdML Theo27AG . Increasing the concentration of theophylline to 2.0 mM however reduced this difference to 

Unlike AdML Theo29AG and AdML Theo27AG substrates the normal step II of the splicing of AdML Theo Stem21AG in the absence of theophylline see accumulation of lariat exon 2 in lanes 2 5 versus no accumulation in lanes 1 4 further confirmed the BPS to AG distance rule Chiara et al. 1997 Chua and Reed 2001 Patterson and Guthrie 1991 . However the poor response of AdML Theo Stem21AG to theophylline mediated step II splicing inhibition is somewhat intriguing compare C C . Two explanations can be offered to this observation First while present in the lower stem of the aptamer the AG could still serve as a 3 splice site. Given that the 3 splice site AG as well as the nucleotides in its vicinity have been shown to interact with the nucleotides at the 5 splice site Collins and Guthrie 1999 Collins and Guthrie 2001 Deirdre et al. 1995 Parker and Siliciano 1993 and with the conserved loop of U5 snRNA Sontheimer and Steitz 1993 it is highly unlikely that while sequestered in the double stranded stem the AG could maintain these interactions. An alternative explanation is that after the completion of the first step or just prior to the step II of the splicing the spliceosome unwinds the lower stem of the aptamer and select this AG as splice acceptor site. Support to this explanation comes from the fact that the second step of the splicing is preceded by a major conformational rearrangement aided in part by putative RNA helicases which likely unfold the lower stem Staley and Guthrie 1998 Umen and Guthrie 1995 .

Data disclosed herein indicate that even at the highest concentration of theophylline 20 25 of the AdML Theo29AG pre mRNA underwent step II of splicing . This could most likely be due to the differential metal ion requirements for the binding of theophylline to its cognate RNA and in vitro splicing while high affinity theophylline RNA aptamer binding requires 5.0 mM Mg Jenison et al. 1994 Zimmermann et al. 2000 3.0 mM Mg has been found to be optimum for in vitro splicing Krainer et al. 1984 . Since the in vitro splicing experiments were performed in the presence of 3.0 mM Mg the observed incomplete splicing inhibition could be the consequence of weak theophylline aptamer binding. In addition the design of the pre mRNA construct could also account for the incomplete repression of splicing. For example unavailability of a competing 3 splice site likely forced the splicing machinery to select a structured AG. This interpretation is in agreement to the previously reported studies in which the repression of a targeted splice site was significantly higher when an alternative splice site was available Goguel et al. 1993 Villemaire et al. 2003 .

Several lines of evidence argue strongly that the observed theophylline dependent inhibition of step II of the splicing is specific. First theophylline mediated decrease in the yield of the spliced product is directly proportional to the amount of the lariat product suggesting that the inhibition of AdML Theo 29AG splicing is not the result of mRNA degradation see lariat and spliced product in lanes 2 17 . Second the lower yield of the mRNA is mirrored by the accumulation of lariat exon 2 confirming that the splicing was specifically blocked at the second step . Third even at the highest concentration theophylline does not affect the efficiency of the first step of splicing thus excluding the possibility that the lower efficiency of the first step of splicing might be the cause of reduced level of mRNA . Fourth theophylline failed to affect the splicing of pre mRNAs in which the theophylline aptamer was inserted to 8 or 10 nucleotides downstream of 3 or 5 ss respectively and data not shown . Fifth even at the highest tested dose theophylline failed to elicit any effect on the splicing of a pre mRNA that does not contain its binding site . Finally caffeine which is similar in shape and size to theophylline had no effect on the splicing of AdML Theo 29AG pre mRNA .

The formation of RNA secondary structure has been known to account for the regulation of splicing in a number of natural pre mRNAs Buratti et al. 2004 . In addition the effects of artificial stem loop structures on the splicing of pre mRNAs in yeast Goguel and Rosbash 1993 Goguel et al. 1993 mammals Eperon et al. 1988 Liu et al. 1997 Solnick 1985 and plants Goodall and Filipowicz 1991 Liu et al. 1995 have also been investigated. More recently the analysis of human intronic sequences has revealed a strong correlation between alternative splicing and the prevalence of tandem nucleotide repeats that have the potential of forming secondary structure in introns that flank alternatively spliced exons Lian and Garner 2005 . Given these facts it would be interesting to test whether or not the RNA theophylline system developed here could be used to influence a 3 splice site switch of a pre mRNA in which a common 5 splice site pairs with two alternative 3 splice site.

In conclusion we have demonstrated that an artificial riboswitch which exploits the high affinity binding of theophylline to an in vitro evolved aptamer can regulate pre mRNA splicing. Theophylline dependent control of pre mRNA splicing may have many advantages. First theophylline is a well known drug with favorable pharmacokinetic and cellular uptake properties. Second theophylline is highly stable and possesses good water solubility. Third theophylline is commercially available and is inexpensive. Finally theophylline binds to its cognate sequence with high affinity and specificity and the BLAST search of the human genome revealed no apparent match for theophylline aptamer sequence.

Since the choice of alternative splice sites is generally made at early stages of spliceosome assembly it was next examined whether a theophylline riboswitch could be engineered to control splicing prior to the first step. A series of pre mRNA substrates were constructed in which the branchpoint sequence BPS was inserted within the theophylline aptamer. In AdML pre mRNA derivatives in which the branchpoint sequence is inserted within the upper stem of theophylline binding sequences normal splicing was observed in the absence of theophylline albeit with varying efficiency lanes 2 5 7 10 and 12 15 . However addition of theophylline to the splicing reaction significantly lowered the yield of the spliced product lanes 6 11 and 16 . AdML BPT15AG which showed the most significant effects in the presence of theophylline was chosen for further experiments. To determine whether theophylline mediated inhibition was dose dependent and to identify the optimum concentration for controlling splicing the splicing experiment was repeated using AdML BPT15AG in the presence of varying concentrations of theophylline. Theophylline as found to inhibit splicing in a dose dependent manner and B . While 250 M of theophylline could affect the splicing reaction 0.5 mM theophylline was necessary to achieve 50 splicing inhibition .

To investigate whether theophylline inhibits pre mRNA splicing by blocking the step s in the assembly of the spliceosome or simply interferes with the chemical step s of splicing splicing complex assembly was analyzed. Spliceosome assembly assays were performed in the presence or absence of 2 mM theophylline. Addition of theophylline significantly affected the kinetics of spliceosome assembly compare lanes 1 7 and lanes 8 14 . For example in the absence of theophylline splicing complex A was detected at approximately five minutes and converted into complex B C at approximately 30 minutes. This process peaked between 45 60 minutes and declined after 90 minutes of incubation. In contrast splicing complex A appeared as early as approximately five minutes in the presence of theophylline but its conversion to complex B C was significantly impaired. In addition theophylline affected the kinetics of complex H to A transformation. While the majority of complex H disappeared after 30 minutes of incubation in the presence of theophylline it persisted even after 90 minutes. Thus theophylline inhibits pre mRNA splicing by blocking assembly of the spliceosome.

To determine whether theophylline dependent splicing is specific nucleotides that are necessary for theophylline binding boxed residues in were mutated. The resultant pre mRNA BrkBpTheo was not expected to bind theophylline and thus should remain unaffected during in vitro splicing in the presence of theophylline. This was indeed the case as splicing of BrkBpTheo remained virtually unaffected even at the maximum tested dose of theophylline .

Biochemical and structural studies showed that the lower theophylline aptamer stem is not critical for ligand binding Zimmermann 1997 but apparently increases the stability of the RNA theophylline complex. If true then an increase in the length of the lower theophylline aptamer stem should further stabilize the RNA theophylline complex which may bring stronger splicing repression. To test this prediction AdML Theo15AG derivatives were constructed in which the size of the lower theophylline aptamer stem was varied from four to ten nucleotides . Results showed that the longer the stem size the stronger the inhibition of splicing and C . A slightly lower degree of inhibition was observed in the case of the substrate with a ten nucleotide stem apparently due to overall low splicing efficiency in the absence of theophylline.

The effect of BPS location on splicing repression was tested next. An AdML derivative in which the BPS was inserted in the lower theophylline aptamer stem was constructed . Splicing assays showed that relocation of BPS to the lower stem rendered the AdML derivative less responsive to theophylline mediated splicing repression compare lane 4 and lane 8 . These results are consistent with experiments in which relocation of 3 ss AG from the core to the lower stem resulted in a significantly weaker response to theophylline mediated splice repression.

Naturally occurring RNA structure elements as well as artificial stem loop structures are known to influence alternative splicing. To determine whether theophylline induced secondary structure can likewise influence alternative splicing a series of model splicing substrates were constructed consisting of three exons interrupted by two introns . While intron 1 BPS was inserted within TBS the BPS of intron 2 remained unchanged. The strength of 5 ss in exon 2 increased in the following order ABT0M

To determine whether theophylline induced sequestering of branchpoint can control splicing in living cells DNAs that encode ABT0 8M pre mRNAs was inserted into the mammalian expression vector pcDNA3.1 to yield pcDNA ABT0 8M. HeLa cells 70 90 confluence were transiently transfected with these constructs or with empty vector then treated with theophylline 1 mM or buffer. After a 24 hour incubation cells were harvested and total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy mini kit Qiagen . RT PCR assays showed that theophylline can affect alternative splicing which is in agreement with the in vitro results . These results suggest that artificial riboswitches can be engineered to regulate alternative splicing both in vitro and in cultured cells.

Alternative splicing is a precisely regulated process by which a single pre mRNA can undergo differential joining of 5 and 3 splice sites to generate variant mRNAs with diverse and often antagonistic functions Black 2003 Clayerie 2001 Graveley 2001 . The defective regulation of splice variant expression has been identified as the cause of several genetic disorders Dredge et al. 2001 Faustino and Cooper 2003 Garcia Blanco et al. 2004 Hull et al. 1993 Nissim Rafinia and Kerem 2002 Pagani and Baralle 2004 Phillips and Cooper 2000 . Moreover certain forms of cancer have been linked to unbalanced isoform expression from genes involved in cell cycle regulation or angiogenesis Krajewska et al. 1996a Krajewska et al. 1996b Novak et al. 2001 Steinman et al. 2004 Venables 2004 Xerri et al. 1996 . Thus a system based on a small drug like molecule such as theophylline that can influence a splicing decision may emerges as novel pharmacological tools with potential for therapeutic intervention.

For example the theophylline dependent riboswitches can be employed to target two genes that are linked to human diseases the Bcl x gene and the SMN1 gene. Alternative splicing of Bcl x gene generates a long isoform Bcl xL and a short isoform Bcl xS. A proper balance between these two isoforms is essential for the normal cell function such as maintaining breast epithelial cell homeostasis and mammary gland involution. In addition overexpression of Bcl xL has been associated with increased risk of breast cancer metastasis and resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. It has been suggested that Bcl xL promotes cell survival by counteracting signals that lead to the expression of Bcl xS a pro apoptotic protein. An ideal approach for breast cancer treatment would be a conditional splicing switch that regulates Bcl x trans gene splicing in a dose dependent manner according to individual patient need.

To investigate whether theophylline can affect alternative splicing of Bcl x trans gene a Bcl x minigene pBcl x Theo was constructed in which the proximal 5 ss is imbedded within TBS. Because the entire TBS is present in the intron it was expected that the modified minigene would remain functional. Three derivatives of the Bcl x minigene were prepared by in vitro transcription BclxSHTheo57 7 nucleotide stem BclxSHTheo510 10 nucleotide stem and BclxSHTheo513 13 nucleotide stem and used for in vitro splicing assays . The distal to proximal product ratio increased in the presence of theophylline in the 10 and 13 nucleotide stem substrates . Experiments will next be performed in human breast cancer cells MFC 7 transfected with the Bcl x minigene to verify in vivo functionality.

Spinal muscular atrophy SMA is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder which is caused by mutation in the SMN1 gene Cartegni et al. 2002 Garcia Blanco et al. 2004 Khoo et al. 2003 . Although SMN2 gene can compensate partially for the loss of SMN1 a translationally silent C to T substitution in exon 7 disrupts an SF2 ASF dependent ESE resulting into exclusion of exon 7 and production of defective protein. Thus blocking the 3 splice site using theophylline aptamer system of exon 8 may force the splicing machinery to include included exon 7 and therefore produce the functional protein.

AdML Par and AdML21AG pre mRNAs were generated by in vitro transcription using BamHI digested plasmids pAdML Par Gozani et al. 1994 and pAdML21AG respectively. AdML Theo39AG pre mRNA was synthesized from a PCR derived template which was amplified from plasmid pAdML AG Gozani et al. 1994 using T7 primer 5 TAATACGACTCACTATAG 3 SEQ ID NO 30 and oligonucleotide 17179 5 TCAACGTCGAGACGCTGCCAAGGGCCTTTCGGCTG GTATCGCCAGAGAGAGAGG 3 SEQ ID NO 31 as forward and reverse primers respectively. Plasmids encoding AdML Theo29AG AdML Theo27AG and AdML Theo Stem21AG pre mRNAs are derivatives of pAdML Gozani et al. 1994 and were constructed by PCR using T7 primer as the forward primer and oligonucleotide 17396 5 TTGACGTCGACCTCCTGCCAAGGGCCTTTCGGCTGGTATGAGGAA AAAAAAAGAAAAAAAGT 3 SEQ ID NO 32 oligonucleotide 17395 5 TTGACGTCGACCTGCCAAGGGCCTTTCGGCTGGTATGGAAAAAAAAAGAAAAA AAGT 3 SEQ ID NO 33 and oligonucleotide 22735 5 TTGACGTCGATCAGCT GCCAAGGGCCTTTCGGCTGGTATCTGAAAAAAAAAAGAAAAAGT 3 SEQ ID NO 34 respectively as reverse primer. AdML TheoExon2 pre mRNA was synthesized from PstI digested plasmid pAdML TheoExon2 which was generated by PCR using oligonucleotides 30036 5 CCCTTGGCAGCGTCTGAGGACAAAC TCTTCGCGG 3 SEQ ID NO 35 and 30037 5 CCTTTCGGCTGGTATCGCCAC GTCGACCTGAAAAAAAAAG 3 SEQ ID NO 36 and pAdML21AG as the template underline represents theophylline binding sequence. The PCR amplified DNA was circularized using T4 DNA ligase to yield the desired pAdML TheoExon2.

Linearized plasmid 1 g or PCR generated DNA 150 200 ng was used as template for run off transcription. A typical 10 L in vitro transcription reaction consisted of 40 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 2.0 mM spermidine 10 mM DTT 20 mM MgCl NTP mixture 0.4 mM CTP and ATP and 0.1 mM GTP and UTP 2.0 mM cap analog NEB 10 Ci P UTP 10 20 units SP6 NEB or T7 polymerase Ambion . After incubation at 37 C. for 2 hours the reaction was terminated by adding 12.5 L stop buffer and RNA was purified on a 10 denaturing polyacrylamide gel.

Nuclear extracts were prepared from HeLa cells obtained from National Cell Culture essentially as described by Dignam et al. Dignam et al. 1983 . To ensure that theophylline binds to its RNA target a solution 5 l consisting of P labeled pre mRNA 5 10 fmol 10 000 cpm per reaction indicated concentration of theophylline 0.5 l BC300 20 mM HEPES pH 8.0 20 glycerol 300 mM KCl 0.2 mM EDTA and 0.25 l 160 mM MgClwere heated to 65 C. for 5 minutes followed by 20 minutes incubation at room temperature. Next 0.5 mM ATP 20 mM creatine phosphate 0.4 units of RNasin Promega 1.0 mM DTT 6.25 l HeLa nuclear extract and water up to 12.5 l all concentrations are final was added and incubation continued at 30 C. for the indicated time. Where indicated theophylline was substituted by caffeine or water. Splicing reaction was terminated by the addition of 125 l stop buffer 100 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 10 mM EDTA 1 SDS 150 mM NaCl 300 mM sodium acetate followed by phenol chloroform extraction and isolation of the RNA by ethanol precipitation. The RNA pallet was washed with 70 aqueous ethanol dried and dissolved in 10 l loading buffer. Splicing intermediates and products were analyzed by electrophoresis in 13 denaturing polyacrylamide gels. The fractionated RNAs were visualized by PhosphorImager Molecular Dynamics and RNA signals were quantified by ImageQuant version 4.2 software Molecular Dynamics or ImageJ version 1.36 software Rasband W. S. ImageJ U.S. National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. http rsb.info.nih.gov ij 1997 2006 .

Spliceosome assembly and separation of individual complexes were performed essentially as described earlier Das and Reed 1999 . Briefly pre mRNA 5 ng was incubated in HeLa nuclear extract in the absence or presence of theophylline 12.5 l total volume under the conditions that support in vitro splicing. After the incubation 2.5 l of 4 g l heparin and 2.5 l of 5 loading dye containing 1 TBE 89 mM Tris 89 mM boric acid 2.5 mM EDTA 20 glycerol 0.25 bromophenol blue 0.25 xylene cyanol was added and the 3 l aliquots of each reaction mixture were loaded on a 2 horizontal low melting agarose gels followed by the spliceosome complexes at 70 V for 3 h in Tris glycine running buffer at room temperature Konarska and Sharp 1986 . Gels were fixed in 10 acetic acid 10 methanol for 30 min and then dried under vacuum at 80 C.

As stated above the foregoing is merely intended to illustrate various embodiments of the present invention. The specific modifications discussed above are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various equivalents changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are to be included herein. All references cited herein are expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

