---

title: Methods of facilitating merchant transactions using a computerized system including a set of titles
abstract: A method of facilitating a transaction between a merchant and a buyer using a computerized system including a set of titles. The method includes storing the set of titles in a merchant site corresponding to a set of products for sale; browsing the merchant site using a client device and selecting a product for purchase; and generating a payment slip title for the product including information relating to a payment amount and a buyer identifier. The method further includes selecting a payment structure from a set of available payment structures; modifying the payment slip title to include information corresponding to the selected payment structure; releasing the product title to the buyer; and transmitting the payment amount to the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738457&OS=08738457&RS=08738457
owner: OnCircle, Inc.
number: 08738457
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100302
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 414 817 filed on Apr. 15 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 232 861 filed on Aug. 30 2002 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 380 787 filed May 15 2002 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 407 466 filed Aug. 30 2002 and Provisional Application No. 60 407 382 filed Aug. 30 2002 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The invention relates to an advanced title and transaction network. In particular the invention provides an architecture and operation for the facilitation of the creation ownership exchange management reselling marketing bartering and auctioning of titles over an electronic network such as the Internet.

The Internet has become an efficient mechanism for globally distributing digital content such as documents pictures music and other types of digital content. Information can now be transmitted directly and instantly across the Internet from the content owner to the content buyer without having to first convert it into physical form such as paper documents compact disks photographs etc.

However the advantage of easy digital communication has also allowed digital content to be easily pirated by just about anyone with a computer and Internet access. The combination of high speed broadband Internet access digital content compression software which reduces the size of digital content files peer to peer file trading networks which allows users to post content files and lack of a viable digital rights standard has caused the content owners to lose control of their content. Consequently content owners are experiencing a loss of potential revenue.

The lack of a standardized and transparent digital rights management system however is preventing a commercially viable solution from emerging. In order for such a system to be commercially viable the system should be secure both from the user s and the content owner s standpoint universal so that electronic device manufactures are encouraged to engineer it into their products and transparent so that users are not required to change their behavior.

Existing systems that attempt to provide confidence between buyers include escrow agreements third party confirmations third party appraisals and other similar techniques. These systems are slow and complex and they do not provide the content user with sufficient confidence that the buyers and sellers are not illegally replicating the content or otherwise attempting to sell pirated copies of works.

In addition to the pirating aspects associated with sharing digital content users are burdened with less than ideal methods for legally sharing digital content. These cumbersome methods include transferring entire files to other users via electronic mail instant messenger peer to peer and other applications or sharing hyperlinks via electronic mail instant messenger and other applications. These methods can be viewed as counter productive anti social and even bothersome to the users that receive or attempt to share the content. Sharing of entire digital content such as music via electronic mail is a drain on resources and inefficient to the electronic mail servers the network and the receiving users. Sharing of hyperlinks can lead to broken links complex URL Universal Resource Locator strings and restrictions on the type of content that can be shared i.e. linked to . Compatibility problems are widespread and create frustration when sharing digital content of a specific media type.

What is needed are advanced techniques for controlling the trading of digital rights so that the buyers are assured of an authentic copy fair use is preserved for the copy and content owners are fairly compensated. In addition advanced techniques are employed to provide an easy friendly efficient and adaptable method for users to share digital content.

The invention relates in one embodiment to a method of facilitating a transaction between a merchant and a buyer using a computerized system including a set of titles. The method includes storing the set of titles in a merchant site corresponding to a set of products for sale browsing the merchant site using a client device and selecting a product for purchase and generating a payment slip title for the product including information relating to a payment amount and a buyer identifier. The method further includes selecting a payment structure from a set of available payment structures modifying the payment slip title to include information corresponding to the selected payment structure releasing the product title to the buyer and transmitting the payment amount to the merchant.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a method of facilitating a payment transaction between a buyer and a seller using a computerized system comprising a payment structure a buyer identifier and a set of titles including a product title and a payment slip title having a buyer identifier element a payment amount element and a payment structure element. The method includes storing a plurality of titles in a merchant memory to create a plurality of stored titles browsing the merchant memory to select an available product corresponding to the stored titles and selecting an available title for purchase. The method further includes generating a payment slip title for the product selection including identifying information relating to a payment amount and buyer identifier transmitting the payment slip title to the title management apparatus and selecting a payment structure from the set of available payment structures. The method also includes modifying the payment slip title wherein the payment structure element is indicative of the selected payment structure transmitting the payment slip title to the payment apparatus releasing the product title to the buyer and transmitting the payment amount to the seller.

Advantages of the invention include the ability to conduct secure merchant transactions over a network such as the Internet.

The invention is directed to the creation ownership exchange management reselling marketing bartering and auctioning of titles.

In this context a title is an object that may have a number of elements and attributes including embedded digital content ownership attributes copy permissions and others as described herein. A title can also represent the rights to a single piece of digital content or a single resource or it can represent the rights to a multitude of digital content and resources and in a variety of formats. The digital content rights such as the ability to exchange or copy are determined by the content publisher. Furthermore a title can also represent the rights to another title or multitude of titles which in turn express rights to digital content or resources.

Users can initiate a variety of exchanges with each other depending on the type of title and the rules associated with that title. These exchanges can take the form of trades or transfers. In the case of trades offers can be reviewed and then subsequently accepted canceled or a counter offer can be presented. The counter offer process can continue until satisfaction or until trade is canceled.

In order to help protect the integrity of the trade a chained hash cryptographic technique is used to guarantee that only a single instance of the title is in circulation at any one point in time. The title management and publisher structure may perform verification on the chained hash to ensure its integrity. The chained hash technique may be implemented in such a way as to provide benefits typically associated with one time password and digital cash systems. However this implementation may be modified to provide a high degree of integrity around the use of titles within the ecosystem.

The chained hash technique can be combined with additional controls that work in conjunction with the security classification element to provide varying degrees of security for the title and the digital content referred to by the title. These additional controls may include cryptographic key splitting techniques as well as multi user and multi factor authentication. Security class is an element that resides in the title to convey the level of security appropriate for this title. Security class is set by the publisher based on the publisher s requirements and rules. Security class can be used within the ecosystem to determine appropriate handling of the title. For example a title with a high security rating of 5 can force strong authentication of the user as well as strong encryption of the digital content associated with the title. As an example a multi user authentication requirement can be used for parental controls whereby a guardian must also provide authentication and acceptance on the purchase and use of a title where a minor is involved.

The content rating system can be used by publishers to determine appropriate ratings for their content and these ratings can be enforced by title management and resolver apparatus to ensure guardian approval. Content rating is an element within the content element to convey a rating regarding the suitability of the content. The rating system is dependent on the type of content and the regulatory factors involved e.g. music video movie etc. .

The exchange structure specification and rules provide the ability for the title publisher and or the title owner to determine the exchange capabilities of subsequent owners of the title. For example a title publisher could limit a title owner to only one trade or even to deny trades but allow transfers. A title owner may transfer the title to another person for a limited period of time and deny that person any ability to trade or transfer. This ability to set limitations may operate in conjunction with the rules structure.

A trust structure is also implemented to provide users with a simple ability to validate the digital content they receive. The trust structure may convey that the digital content was if applicable rightfully issued by the content publisher. Content publishers are not bound to use the trust structure for the titles they issue but in doing so can provide assurances to the buyer.

The invention is described with reference to specific apparatus and embodiments. Those skilled in the art may recognize that the description is for illustration and to provide the best mode of practicing the invention. For example references are made to computer servers and clients but in a peer to peer network any computer is capable of acting in either role. Likewise reference is made to Internet protocol while any substantially comparable data transmission protocol can be used.

The users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles. A digital content file stored within a content publishing structure is redeemed through a pointer stored within is respective title. This pointer indicates the location of the digital content file. However since this location could have changed since the title was created a resolver structure substitutes the updated digital content file address if needed.

Redemption can occur in various ways. For example the digital content file could be downloaded in its entirety or it could be streamed to one of the client computers and then viewed or listened locally. If the digital content file is already stored locally redemption could allow access or playability. In the case of an online game or chat application redemption of the digital content file could authorize participation.

In another embodiment depicts a title management apparatus wherein a title management structure and an authorization structure are resident on computer while the content publishing structure and a resolver structure are resident on computer . Both computer and computer are coupled over a network to computers which may be owned by users of the system. As in the users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles.

In another embodiment depicts a title management apparatus wherein a title management structure and an authorization structure are resident on computer while the resolver structure is resident on computer and the title publishing structure is resident on computer . Computers are coupled over a network to computers which may be owned by users of the system. As in the users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles.

The title transaction system may provide the ability for users to manage their profile information and to generate titles for accessing profile information. For example this functionality can be used by someone to easily create a business card title and distribute that title to their associates. The title in this case would be a tag that refers that is points to their business card profile elements containing as an example their name title business address and business contact information. In an other example some else could create an emergency profile card and distribute it to specific people so that in an emergency they would have access to certain personal information such as name medical insurance number allergies health risks and emergency contacts. In this particular case the title could be a ticket. The title transaction system provides for close integration of profile information to provide significant value add for the user as they participate in a community where communication purchasing trading auctioning and bartering are common place.

As depicted in the title object has at least one stub object associated with it in order to verify the integrity and valid instance of the title. In addition to identifiers the stub object may contain security indicia such as the indicia required by the chained hash technique in order to validate the single instance and valid ownership of the title. This stub object may change state on every redemption exchange and revocation of the title.

The title object may have more than one stub object associated with it in order to convey additional information controls content or other value add not explicitly given in the original title. The stub object provides extensibility to the title without requiring a complete replacement to the title object. As an example a value add reseller such as a retail merchant may attach additional content or value to the original title in order to promote their product or even to make the original title more attractive for sale or trade. In another example an additional control stub maybe attached to the original title in order to ensure appropriate handling of the title for use by minors such as ensuring that only an edited version of the content is viewed. The use of the stub object is flexible to ensure extensibility of the title object.

As depicted in the stub object can contain a digital signature element in order to verify the integrity of the stub. Although the stub is viewed as an extension to the title the stub can be digitally signed by any participant in the ecosystem. This permits a flexible architecture where multiple participants can collaborate on adding value to a title object.

The system employs a set of specification and rules for structuring creating managing handling and using titles. The specification and rules as well as the format of the title are extensible to support the needs of both the user and content publisher as well as the needs of intermediary systems within the ecosystem that handle or interact with titles.

In the exemplary embodiment a tag is a title object that can be copied among users a token is a title object that cannot be copied like a tag but can be transferred or exchanged between users and a ticket is a title object that is issued to a specific user and hence cannot be copied or transferred among users.

A channel support structure is responsible for communicating with users and is associated with the communication procedures . The channel support communicates over the network using a number of possible protocols including HTTP hyper text transfer protocol SMTP simple mail transfer protocol SMS short messaging service and others.

The title protocol may define a standard set of protocol bindings to describe how title transactions are communicated across those protocols. However the title protocol specification may define extensions so that the title protocol can be bound to other underlying protocols as required within the ecosystem. When an inbound message is received by the channel support the message is passed along to a number of other structures that decode transform and interact with the message. For example a transform structure performs a transform on the inbound data request to conform it to a normalized application interface for a core title transaction application. The use of the transform layer at this point provides standardized parsing of the transaction as it proceeds through the pipeline to the core title transaction application. A tracker acts as a transaction filter to maintain a log of all the inbound messages and requests. A rule structure then applies a number of possible rules to the message. The rule structure obtains its rule sets from several sources including the title itself as defined in the title format data storage through the data abstraction portion and extensions that can support the retrieval of rules through other sources such as via the network. The rules include characteristics for each title for example whether it can be refunded exchanged played viewed etc. Often the functions that can be performed on a given title are related to the title type. For example in the exemplary embodiment titles of type tag can be freely distributed to all users titles of type ticket are tied to a specific user and cannot be exchanged and titles of type token can be exchanged with other users. When a title of type token is exchanged with another user the user can no longer redeem that title and the system may disable any offline content associated with the title.

For instance the content element within a title can contain an encrypted password that is not known to the user. A program for viewing or playing the offline content such as Windows Media Player would read the title through an application program interface check the rule sets and then execute content such as an MP3 file using the encrypted password. Once a user exchanges the title with another user the rule sets would be modified to reflect that that the user no longer has rights to the content and the content itself could not be played or viewed.

The rules associated to the title are developed and applied by the content publisher and by the user or someone acting on behalf of the user . The title management and title publisher modules may provide an application and interface to easily develop and apply rules to the titles. For example a content publisher may apply usage rules applicable to the title and the digital content and or resource it provides evidence of rights to. In turn a user may apply default rules within the title management module to assist in controlling and protecting their actions related to certain titles for example to prevent from accidentally trading a valuable title . In another example a parent may establish restrictions on the type of content their child may access and use in their title management module.

Specialized rules called triggers may also be used. Triggers are rules that invoke actions that are external to the title management apparatus. For instance a parent can be notified by email that a child wishes to redeem a digital content file for which there is some age restriction.

Specialized rules called timers may also be used. Timers are rules that invoke actions based on a specific time or based on a spent amount of time. For example a title may only be good for twenty four hours or an exchange may only be valid for one week. Timers maybe combined with triggers in rule processing.

The core title transaction application core TTS is the application that verifies the ownership of the titles by the users and that authenticates the titles and selectively permits the titles to be transferred if such rights are allowed. Among the modules contained within the core TTS application are the following 

In the outbound stream from the core TTS the rules structure then performs certain functions on the outbound information according to rules stored in the data and or embedded in the title. The tracker checks to ensure that the outbound information matches the inbound requests so that no inbound messages are dropped or ignored and that outbound message are responding to legitimate inbound messages. The tracker may log transactions in accordance with the configuration. The transform converts the outbound information from a normalized format into a format that conforms to a user profile or preference as well as based on incoming requests for particular transforms. For example the data can be transformed into WML for display on a WAP enabled phone or into HTML for display on a web browser. Certain transforms can be executed based on rules established within the system. The profile or preference data as well as the transform templates are retrieved from the data portion in order to perform the transform. Finally the channel support communicates with the user of the network in a native protocol format.

In another embodiment depicts a logical structure of the invention as deployed in an ecosystem according to an embodiment of the invention. The ecosystem is comprised of a number of entities each providing a service of benefit to the overall system and each connected to the other using some type of network protocol.

The title manager content publisher transaction maker content creator and hosting provider are coupled to each other using a network protocol such as TCPIP over the Internet. The client device can be coupled to title manager content publisher and transaction maker using any one of a number of network protocols. Among these are HTTP E Mail SMTP and SMS .

Initially the content creator creates a digital content file such as an MP3 song as well as a title associated with the digital content file. The creating user interacts with a display as shown in and described in detail below. The digital content file is transmitted across the network protocol to hosting provider where it is stored until a content publisher desires to make it available to users with a client device . The content creator also transmits the title to the title manager using network protocol .

Users desiring the digital content file may access the transaction maker using the client device . Transaction maker functions as a marketplace where digital content buyers and sellers can transact with each other in a secure environment. When a user agrees to buy the digital content file from a seller in this case the content publisher the transaction maker communicates this to the title manager which in turn modifies the title of the digital content file with the new rights just purchased by the user. The user can now redeem the digital content file from the content publisher and download it to the client device .

If the user desires to transfer the title to a new user and the title s security indicia allows it the user can become a digital content seller and post an offer to transfer the title on transaction maker . As before when a new user agrees to buy the digital content file from the user the transaction maker communicates this to the title manager which in turn modifies the title of the digital content file with the new rights just purchased by the new user. The buyer can now redeem the digital content file from the content publisher and download it to the client device . The seller can no longer access the digital content file on the content publisher .

In this example the user selected mySongArtist 3 in the title folder pane and is displayed the owned titles to mySongArtist 3 songs . From this display the user has the option to play the song on the user s client computer trade the title to the song to another user or delete the title altogether.

If the user selects one of mySongArtist 3 songs a more detailed title content pane appears as shown in . In this pane a description of the song is displayed along with the music type category and rating. A picture such as an album cover can be also displayed. As is the user has the option to play the song on the user s client computer trade the title to the song to another user or delete the title altogether.

For example if the user chooses to trade mySong 3 a trade Preparation pane appears as shown in . Aside from the information that was previously displayed in the title content pane of additional information is displayed such as a valid from date field a quantity field a value field and an exchange limit field . The user can also view a sample of mySong 3.

The user must select whether to trade or transfer the title of mySong 3 with another user. Additionally the user may be asked if they would like to list it on a barter site list on barter site or post it to a transaction maker site post to transaction maker . The user can enter description of the mySong 3 in the description field as well as a note in the Personal Note field to the user with whom the trade is being transacted. In the trade with whom field the user enters the e mail or mobile phone number of the user with whom they wish to trade. Once this information is substantially complete the user selects the user selectable button trade title to proceed or the user selectable button cancel to cancel the transaction.

The e mail and mobile phone numbers are used to provide examples of identifying trading parties. The title transaction system has been designed with a flexible and extensible title format to accept and support a variety of naming schemes including but not limited to domain name phone numbers X.500 naming and LDAP.

The display is divided into two sections a new project pane and a project list pane . A project is a set of digital content files that share the same title object. If the user opens myprojectName 3 for example a project detail display appears as in .

Digital content file s can be quickly added to a project by entering the name of the directory in which they are located into user input field and selecting the add files user selectable button . Furthermore information contained in the title is shown and can be modified through fields the project detail pane such as name field creator field type field category field description field location field quantity field value field mime type field rating field sample at field and icon field . When the users wish to save the information in the title the user selectable button update is selected.

The business tab as shown contains the following fields company came web site work phone work email job title and work address . As in when the users wish to save the information in the profile the submit changes button is selected.

Current online payment systems commonly require bank cards such as Visa or Master Card. In order to complete a purchase customers must enter the bank card account information along with personal contact information into an online form at the merchant Internet site. Often the information is stored by the merchant to simplify future customer purchases. For instance instead of having to re enter the information the customer can just authenticate with a login and password and complete the purchase.

Customer fears about data security and confidentiality however have inhibited ecommerce growth. And although security systems have greatly improved criminal sophistication has also increased. Customers are not only inconvenienced with having to enter and re enter account information at every merchants site they are also concerned with propagation of their account information protection of their privacy at each of the merchants site and tracking of their habits and activities online.

Because of the distributed and anonymous nature of the Internet online merchants are prone to both fraudulent bank card transactions and malicious hacking attacks. These same merchants however cannot remain in business if their attempts to increase security result in unintended customer frustration. Modern payment systems must both enhance the customer buying experience and be secure. A modern payment system must also support anonymous payment methods similar to the physical cash schemes that are currently in use throughout the world.

Consumer s device presents the user interface of the online title manager and wallet through which titles and digital content file s are managed transacted and delivered. The device can be almost any type of computing device that can communicate with the DCE including desktop computers laptops PDA s and mobile phones. The title manager located in the DCE provides title management services to the consumer such as adding viewing and trading titles. Additionally the title manager provides wallet functionality for viewing accounts currencies and receipts as well as handling payment processing on behalf of the consumer. Optionally the functionality offered by both the consumer s device and the DCE can be packaged in a number of ways including a completely integrated application to be run on a consumer s device such as a desktop computer.

The merchant site is an online merchant system that provides both web based and e commerce functionality such as catalog product information product configurators shopping pages shopping cart and payment services. While only one merchant site is shown in the diagram the invention can support any number of merchant sites. The merchant site is further comprised of title enabled components as shown in . As shown in the merchant site can include a title manager title publisher digital lockbox and title merchant plugin . All components are optionally operated by the merchant but are generally available to merchants that are title enabled. The title manager provides the merchant with management functions for titles that they own or potentially for customers. The title publisher allows the merchant to publish titles such as the titles that may be given to customers that reference customer s rights to digital content file s. The digital lockbox is an example where the merchant hosts the lockbox for trading purposes instead of a third party service. The title merchant plugin provides payment support services for the merchant including communication with digital lockboxes title verification and an interface with payment providers. While only one component of each type is shown the invention can support any number of components to be hosted by the merchant.

The third party digital lockbox in is an application that provides a temporary and secure safe harbor for all transaction titles until title rights are established. While only one digital lockbox is shown the invention can support any number of digital lockboxes. It is generally hosted somewhere in the network by the merchant or a trusted third party escrow service. For instance a title may be released to the consumer from lockbox once the purchase is completed. As shown in the merchant site can also host a digital lockbox to provide a mechanism for supporting the payment process that is supporting exchange transactions in lieu of a third party service.

The title enabled payment provider is an online payment provider service that is title enabled in that they can support title based transactions. While only one title enabled payment provider is shown the invention can support any number of title enabled payment providers. In addition to supporting titles a title enabled payment provider would provide services typical of a payment provider such as payment processing gateways to payment networks and merchant accounts. As shown in a title enabled payment provider can operate title enabled components such as title manager title publisher and digital lockbox . These components would provide the same services to the payment provider as similar components provided to the merchant site .

Each of the system elements shown in and are coupled to the other using a network protocol such as TCP IP over the Internet. Furthermore consumers can access online title manager functions directly within merchant sites if they are permitted. For instance payment options shown at the merchant site reflect those available in the online title manager but other options can be added.

As previously described a title is an object that may have a number of elements and attributes including embedded digital content ownership attributes and copy permissions. In this example a consumer wishes to buy a product or service from a merchant using a title transaction. A purchasing transaction generally comprises two or more separate titles a product title or titles being offered by the merchant and a payment slip title or payment titles being offered by the consumer. The product title or titles give the title owner specific rights to the product for instance the ability to play a song. The payment slip title is a financial instrument that authorizes a payment provider to pay the merchant for any product titles purchased. Once the transaction is complete the consumer would be in possession of the product title or titles and the merchant would be in possession of the payment slip title or payment titles.

For instance a customer would use a web browser on customer s device to access a merchant site through online title manager . When the merchant site determines that the transaction is title enabled it presents the product title choices and displays the consumer s title payment options. Once items are selected for purchase the merchant site places the product titles in a digital lockbox generates a pre filled sales order title comprising transaction details including a transaction number product title information purchase detail and information on the digital lockbox . The sales order title functions as an electronic invoice or promise of payment for the merchant .

The sales order is transmitted back to title manager and stored for the consumer to view select payment type and approve using the consumer device . Once approved by the consumer the title publisher may generate a payment slip title using the sales order title as a guide. The payment slip title is transmitted to the digital lockbox and the merchant is notified. The merchant verifies the payment slip title in the digital lockbox and completes the transaction by releasing the product titles to the customer. A receipt title can also be generated and included in the transaction if requested or required. The merchant then captures payment from the customer by forwarding the completed payment slip title to the title payment provider for payment. Alternatively the merchant can use a standard collection process such as that used for credit card processing and deal directly with a traditional payment provider .

As described previously a sales order title is created by the title publisher operated by the merchant site as shown in . The sales order title is used as an invoice and sent to the consumer s title manager shown in . The consumer s title publisher may create a payment slip title using sales order title as a guide. The sales order title is similar to previous titles but may instead contain sales order information within the content element. depicts an exemplary sales order detail section that would be included within a title similar to the currency detail being included in and payment detail being included in . The sales order detail contains merchant detail order summary information order detail payment detail trade detail and consumer payment logic . Order summary provides summary information on the order including order number total price and taxes. Order detail provides line item detail for each product offered for sale including unit and extended pricing. Payment detail provides detail definitions for the terms and conditions as well as the accepted payment types such as Visa Mastercard bank card and cash. Trade detail provides information regarding the trade product titles for payment titles such as the location of the digital lockbox . Consumer payment logic defines logic statements that can control how a payment slip is generated. These are basically instructions to the title publisher for handling specific payment mechanisms.

The title content pane presents summarized information for account currency or receipt titles. Title content pane also allows the consumer to modify authorized entries within the titles. For example the user has selected the dollars currency title . This displays a summary of the currency amounts contained with the title as well as allows the user to top up the account with additional currency.

Advantages of the invention include the ability to easily and efficiently manage and share titles over a network such as the Internet. Additional advantages of the invention include creating an ecosystem whereby digital content providers can offload the burden of managing and enforcing user access rights yet receive revenue from third party transactions.

Having disclosed exemplary embodiments and the best mode modifications and variations may be made to the disclosed embodiments while remaining within the subject and spirit of the invention as defined by the following claims.

