---

title: Dictionary service
abstract: A user of an online service sends a request to write a review of a media content item, using a text limited device such as a gamepad of a videogame console. In response to the request, one or more dictionaries are requested using metadata associated with the request such as the title of the movie or a genre associated with the movie. The dictionaries are received and used to populate user interface elements with words and phrases. Each user interface element corresponds to a sentence component such as a verb, noun, etc. The user may use the gamepad to cycle through the words and phrases in each user interface element to generate a sentence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09213704&OS=09213704&RS=09213704
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09213704
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101111
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 384 689 filed on Sep. 20 2010. This provisional patent application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

User generated text content is an increasingly popular feature on many websites and other online services. For example users may generate and submit reviews for one or more products available at an online merchant or may generate and submit a comment in response to an article at an online newspaper. The user generated content is often of a very high quality and has become an essential part of many websites and other online services.

However as more and more users access the Internet using devices other than a computer generating text content of the same high quality can be difficult because of inherent limitations of the devices. These devices may include smart phones and videogame consoles and while these devices often have sophisticated browsers that allow users to easily select and view Internet content they are often poorly suited for generating original text content. For example many smart phones have keyboards that are adequate for typing short text for email but may make generating a longer high quality review difficult. Videogame consoles often lack a keyboard completely forcing the user to select characters one at a time using a joystick or gamepad. Accordingly users of such text limited devices may generate reviews of a lower quality or reduce the overall number of reviews that they generate leading to a reduced online experience for themselves and possibly other users who rely on such user generated content.

A user of an online service sends a request to write a review of a media content item such as a movie for example. The user may be writing the review using a text limited device such as a gamepad of a videogame console. In response to the request one or more dictionaries are requested using metadata associated with the request such as the title of the movie or a genre associated with the movie. The one or more dictionaries are received and used to populate user interface elements with words and phrases from the dictionaries. Each user interface element corresponds to a sentence component such as a verb noun adjective or prepositional phrase. The user may use the gamepad to cycle through the words and phrases in each user interface element to generate text such as a complete sentence or other textual phrase for example. The dictionaries may be specific to the media content item being reviewed so that the user can select words and phrases describing characters plot elements or even the names of actors associated with the media content item to construct the review. In this way the user may generate a review for the media content item without having to type the review themselves. In addition the words and phrases from the dictionaries may be randomized and or adjusted so that the same words and phrases do not appear too frequently in multiple reviews of the media content item.

In an implementation a request to receive one or more dictionaries is received from a client device at a dictionary server. The request includes metadata. One or more dictionaries are retrieved in response to the request according to the included metadata. A dictionary includes a plurality of words and phrases and some or all of the words and phrases have an associated frequency. The one or more dictionaries are provided to the client device. The client device selects a subset of the words and phrases from the one or more dictionaries according to the associated frequencies. In some implementations one of the words may be fixed or always part of a selected subset.

In an implementation user interface elements are displayed to the user by the client device. Each of the user interface elements corresponds to a component of a sentence and each of the user interface elements includes words and phrases from the one or more dictionaries according to the associated frequencies. A plurality of selections to words and phrases in one or more of the user interface elements is received. Text is generated using the selected words and phrases.

Implementations may include some or all of the following features. The request to generate text may include one of a request to write a review of media content a request to send a message and a request to initiate a chat session. The metadata may include a score for the review and a title associated with the media content. The media content may include videogame content audio content and music content. The metadata may include a title and the one or more dictionaries may include names of characters associated with the title. The metadata may include a title of a movie and the one or more dictionaries may include names of characters associated with the movie.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The client device may execute one or more text generating applications . A text generating application may include a variety of software applications that allow users to generate text content including but not limited to web browsers word processors small messaging service applications chat applications and videogame applications for example.

The client device may be what is referred to herein as a text limited device. A text limited device may include any computing device where text entry may be difficult tedious or otherwise difficult when compared to conventional desktop or laptop computers. Text limited devices may include videogame consoles as well as cell phones and or smart phones. For example videogame consoles often omit keyboards entirely forcing the user to generate text by selecting characters from an onscreen keyboard using a gamepad. Smart phones while typically having physical or touch screen keyboards are often uncomfortable for users to generate long text entries. However the client device is not limited to text limited devices and may be implemented using a variety of computing systems including the computing system .

To facilitate text entry on text limited devices the client device may further include a dictionary client . The dictionary client may facilitate text entry by displaying one or more user interface elements on the client device . Each user interface element may correspond to what is referred to herein as a sentence component. A sentence component may correspond to parts of a sentence including but not limited to nouns verbs adjectives adverbs objects subjects predicate phrases prepositional phrases and combinations thereof. Each user interface element may display multiple words and phrases from a dictionary corresponding to the sentence component. A user may then construct a sentence of text using the sentence components by selecting a word or phrase from each of the user interface elements. Alternatively or additionally the user may construct multiple sentences paragraphs or phrases. For example the user may cycle through the various words and phrases in each user interface element using a gamepad or using one or more gestures on a smart phone touch screen.

In an implementation the user interface elements may be wheels that the user may use to cycle between the words and phrases. For example the user may press up or down on a particular button or pad of the gamepad to cycle through the words and phrases that are available for selection and use in the text that will be provided as part of the review or other user provided content. Similarly a user may use one or more gestures supported by a touch user interface of a smart phone to turn the wheels and cycle through the available words and phrases. The generated text may be provided to the text generating application . In some implementations the dictionary client may expose one or more methods or functions to the text generating application using an application programming interface. The text generation application may then invoke one or more of the methods or functions when a user initiates text entry through the text generation application .

For example is an illustration of example user interface elements and displayed to a user by the dictionary client . Each user interface element corresponds to a sentence component and a user may construct a complete sentence phrase or paragraph by selecting a word or phrase from each of the user interface elements. As illustrated a user has constructed the sentence I was inspired by the FX until the final scene by selecting the phrase I was inspired by from the user interface element selecting the phrase the FX from the user interface element and selecting the phrase until the final scene from the user interface element .

In some implementations the user interface elements and the sentence component associated with each user interface element are fixed when the user interface elements are displayed to the user. For example the user may select words and phrases from each user interface element but may not change the order of the user interface elements. In other implementations the user may move the user interface elements around and therefore change the order in which the sentence components associated with each user interface element may appear in the constructed sentence. In addition in some implementations the word or phrase and or the sentence component associated with each user interface element may dynamically change based on the words and phrases selected by the user the words and phrases selected by other users and or the order that the user interface elements are selected by the user. In an implementation after a user selects a word from the user interface element the words or phrases displayed in the user interface element and possibly are dynamically changed to reflect the selected word. By dynamically changing the words and phrases and or the sentence components associated with each user interface element the dictionary client may ensure that the user creates a grammatically correct sentence phrase or paragraph.

In some implementations the dictionary client may populate the words and phrases in each user interface element from one or more dictionaries. The one or more dictionaries may be provided to the dictionary client from the dictionary server . The dictionary server may store multiple dictionaries in a dictionary data store .

The dictionary client may send a request for one or more dictionaries to the dictionary server . The request may include metadata that is associated with the request. The metadata may include an identifier of the text generating application . For example if the text generating application is a chat application the metadata may identify that the one or more dictionaries will be used by the dictionary client to generate text for a chat application.

In some implementations the text generating application may be used to generate a review or comment for a restaurant or other service provider. In other implementations the text generating application may generate a review or a comment for a media content item. The media content item may be a film a video a song or album or a videogame for example. In these implementations the metadata may further identify one or more characteristics of the media content item or service under review. For example where the media content item is a film or videogame the metadata may include characteristics such as the title of the media content item or a genre associated with the media content item. In addition the metadata may include a proposed review score or rating for the media content item. For example before writing the review the user may use the text generating application to indicate how many stars will be associated with the review or may indicate whether the review will be a positive review or a negative review e.g. thumbs up or thumbs down . For a review of a restaurant the metadata may include the name of the restaurant and or the type of food that is served by the restaurant. In addition in some implementations the metadata may indicate where the user is located such as country or region or may indicate the language used by the user.

In some implementations the dictionaries stored in the dictionary storage may also have associated metadata. The metadata may describe intended usages for each dictionary and or text generating application that each dictionary is suitable for. For example metadata for a dictionary may include words and phrases that are suitable for a chat application. The metadata may indicate that the dictionary includes words and phrases that are suitable for reviewing films videogames restaurants or music. The metadata may indicate that the dictionary includes words and phrases that are suitable for reviewing a particular genre of films such as science fiction or a type of food such as Italian. The metadata may also indicate that the dictionary includes words or phrases that may be used by persons in a particular country region or language. In an implementation the metadata may indicate that the dictionary is suitable for reviewing a particular film by title such as Avatar for example.

The dictionary server may determine one or more dictionaries to retrieve from the dictionary data store in response to a request by matching the metadata included with the received request with the metadata associated with the dictionaries. In some implementations the dictionary server may determine the one or more dictionaries from the dictionary data store that have the greatest amount of matching metadata with the metadata associated with the request. In other implementations the mechanism in which the dictionary for a given request s metadata is chosen and the metadata itself can be configured by a user or administrator or an editor . For example if the request has metadata that indicates that the request is for a film review in the genre science fiction for the film Avatar and there are dictionaries associated with metadata that indicates that they are for film reviews dictionaries associated with metadata that indicates that they are for film reviews in the sci fi genre and dictionaries that are associated with metadata that indicates they are for film reviews in the sci fi genre for the film Avatar then the dictionary server may retrieve one or more of the latter dictionaries as they are the most specific dictionaries available for the request. However if no dictionaries were associated with the title Avatar the dictionary server may retrieve one of more of the dictionaries associated with metadata that indicates they are for film reviews in the sci fi genre.

In some implementations the dictionaries in the dictionary data store may be created by one or more editors . An editor may be an editor associated with one or more media content items e.g. a creator producer or owner of the media content items . For example an owner of the film Avatar may provide a dictionary for the film that includes nouns related to plot elements of the film character names and individuals associated with the film e.g. actors directors producers etc. . An editor may also be associated with the dictionary server . For example one or more editors may be employed by an organization associated with the dictionary server to create or maintain dictionaries specific to one or more media content item categories or genres.

In some implementations the editors may include one or more interested parties or volunteers. For example a fan of a particular restaurant may generate a dictionary that is suitable to review the restaurant. The dictionary may include words corresponding to dishes on the menu. To prevent explicit offensive or inaccurate dictionaries a user submitted dictionary may be screened or reviewed by an additional editor to ensure that the dictionary is of sufficient quality to include in the dictionary data store .

The dictionary server may use one or more external sources to supplement one or more retrieved dictionaries. In some implementations the external sources may be a search engine . The dictionary server may query the search engine using some or all of the metadata associated with the request. The search engine may match the query with data stored in a search corpus and may return a set of matching results. The dictionary server may process the set of matching results to identify one or more relevant words of phrases and may add the identified words and phrases to the one or more retrieved dictionaries. Any one of a variety of external data sources may be used.

For example the request for one or more dictionaries may include metadata indicating that the request is to review the album Revolver by The Beatles in the genre Rock . The dictionary server may retrieve one or more dictionaries for reviewing music in the genre Rock . The dictionary server may also query the search engine using one or more search terms such as The Beatles and Revolver . The dictionary server may receive a set of results from the search engine and process the results to determine that The Beatles include the members John Lennon Paul McCartney Ringo Starr and George Harrison. The names of the members may then be added to the one or more dictionaries before they are provided to the dictionary client .

The dictionary service may receive requests for one or more dictionaries from one or more dictionary client . The requests may include metadata. The dictionary service may determine one or more dictionaries from the dictionary data store that has metadata that matches some or all of the metadata included with the request. Where no dictionaries have metadata that matches all of the metadata included with a request the dictionary service may determine one or more dictionaries with the greatest amount of matching metadata. Each dictionary may include one or more words and phrases.

In some implementations the dictionary service may select a subset of the words and phrases in the determined one or more dictionaries and may provide the selected subset to a dictionary client for display in a user interface element. Alternatively or additionally the entire contents of the one or more dictionaries may be supplied to the dictionary client and the dictionary client may select the one or more words and phrases that are displayed.

The usage service may manage usage data for one or more of the dictionaries in the dictionary data store . The usage data may be stored in the usage data store . The usage data store may include frequencies for one or more of the words and phrases in the dictionaries and may control the frequency with which a word or phrase from a dictionary appears in a user interface element when the dictionary is provided to a dictionary client . The usage data may further specify that a word or phrase is always displayed in a user interface element or may specify an order with which the words or phrases are displayed in the user interface elements.

For example a frequency of 1 for a word in a dictionary may dictate that the word appear in a user interface element every time that the dictionary is provided to a dictionary client . A frequency of 0.1 for a word may dictate that the word appear in a user interface element only 10 percent of the times that the dictionary is provided to the dictionary client . In implementations where the dictionary client receives an entire dictionary the dictionary client may select the words and phrases from the dictionary based on the frequencies associated with the words and phrases. In implementations where the dictionary client receives only a subset of the words and phrases from the dictionary server the dictionary service may select the subset according to the associated frequencies.

As described above the usage data may further specify the order with which the words or phrases are displayed in the user interface element. For example each user interface element may be initially displayed with one or more words and phrases that are visible and or a word or phrase that is preselected for the user. Other words or phrases may become visible as the user cycles through the available words and phrases. As may be appreciated the words and phrases that are initially visible and or preselected are more likely to be selected by the user. Thus an editor or user may indicate in the usage data which words or phrases may be preselected or initially visible in a user interface element. Alternatively or additionally the placement of the words or phrases may be weighted according to their associated frequency. Thus the word or phrase with the highest frequency may be preselected in a user interface element.

The usage service may maintain and adjust frequencies in the usage data store based on user selections. When a user generates text by selecting one or more words and phrases of a dictionary the dictionary client may send an indication of a selection of the one or more words and phrases to the usage service . The usage service may then adjust the frequencies of each of the one or more words and phrases based on the indicated usage. For example the usage service may reduce or increase each of the frequencies. By reducing the frequencies of the words and phrases based on usage the sentences generated by the users may avoid becoming too similar or redundant since each user may receive a different subset of a dictionary. In addition to further avoid similar text the default or initially selected word or phrase in each user interface element may be randomized. In some implementations the frequency associated with some of the words and phrases may be fixed such that the frequencies are not reduced regardless of user selections. In addition in some implementations one or more dictionaries may have a minimum or threshold frequency. Words or phrases that fall below the minimum frequency may be removed from the one or more dictionaries.

The dictionary editor engine may provide tools such as an application programming interface that allow one or more editors to create or edit the dictionaries in the dictionary data store . An editor may use the tools to create a dictionary and add one or more phrases to a created or existing dictionary. The editor may further specify the metadata that is associated a created dictionary and may set the one or more frequencies for each of the one or more words or phrases. In some implementations the dictionary editor engine may allow an editor to select an existing dictionary and add one or more words and phrases to create a new dictionary. The dictionary editor engine may further allow a user to edit or adjust the frequencies of words and phrases of an existing dictionary and specify how the usage service adjusts frequencies of the words and phrases in a dictionary in response to user selections.

The external data engine may supplement the words and phrases in one of more of the dictionaries using data retrieved from one or more external data sources. The external data sources may include the search engine one or more public databases such as WIKIPEDIA or IMDB and or one or more private databases such as LEXIS NEXIS. Other external databases may be used such as external databases associated with a content provider such as SkyTV Comcast Time Warner etc.

In some implementations the external data engine may query one or more external databases using the metadata associated with a dictionary or a request for a dictionary. For example if the metadata associated with a dictionary or a request specifies the film Big then the external data engine may query one or more external data sources for the film Big .

The external data engine may receive a set of results from the external data sources. Where the set of results include links to other sources such as URLs the external data engine may retrieve the documents referenced by the links. For example the search engine may return a set of URLs to the external data engine and the external data engine may retrieve the webpages referenced by one or more of the URLs.

The external data engine may process the set of results to determine one or more additional words and phrases that may be added to the dictionary. For example if a particular word or phrase appears in the set of results more than a threshold amount of times the external data engine may determine that the word or phrase may be added to the dictionary. Other methods such as pattern matching or classifiers may be used to determine the words or phrases that are added to the dictionary.

Continuing the example above the external data engine may determine that the words and phrases Tom Hanks Penny Marshall and Zoltar appear in most of the documents in the set of results from the query Big . The external data engine may then add the determined words and phrases to the dictionary or dictionary subset that is provided to the dictionary client . Alternatively or additionally the external data engine may add the words and phrases to one or more dictionaries stored in the dictionary data store .

A request to retrieve one or more dictionaries is received at . The request may be received by the dictionary service of the dictionary server from a dictionary client . The request may include metadata. The metadata may specify the text generating application that the one or more dictionaries may be used with. In implementations where the one or more dictionaries may be used to review a media content item the metadata may include a proposed score for the review a title or genre associated with the media content item a location of a user associated with the review and a language for the review for example.

One or more dictionaries are retrieved according to the metadata associated with the request at . The one or more dictionaries may be retrieved from the dictionary data store by the dictionary service . In some implementations the dictionaries in the dictionary data store may have associated metadata and the dictionary service may retrieve the one or more dictionaries with metadata that matches some or all of the metadata associated with the request.

External data is retrieved according to the metadata associated with the request at . The external data may be retrieved by the external data engine from one or more external data sources such as a search engine . For example the external data engine may use some or all of the metadata associated with the request as a query to the search engine . The set of results received from the search engine may then be processed by the external data engine to extract one or more words and phrases that are related to the request.

The external data is added to one or more of the retrieved dictionaries at . The external data may be added by the external data engine to the retrieved one or more dictionaries.

The one or more dictionaries are provided at . The dictionaries may be provided by dictionary service to the dictionary client . The dictionary client may then display the words and phrases from the dictionaries in one or more user interface elements. A user of the client device may then construct a sentence or other text or phrases by selecting a word or phrase from each of the user interface elements.

An indication of a selection of one or more words and phrases associated with a provided dictionary is received at . The indication of a selection may be received by the usage service of the dictionary server . The indication of a selection may be an indication of the selection made by the user of the dictionary client to one or more of the words and phrases displayed in the one or more user interface elements.

A frequency associated with each of the selected one or more words and phrases is updated at . The frequency may be updated by the usage service or by one or more background processes and or background processors. Each word or phrase in a dictionary may have an associated frequency in the usage data store that dictates the probability and or order with which the word or phrase is displayed in a user interface element by the dictionary client . The frequency may be adjusted by reducing the frequency by a predetermined amount or according to a schedule or formula for example.

A request to generate user text is received at . The request may be received by the dictionary client from a text generating application . The text generating application may be a web browser videogame console application smart phone application or other application for example. Because the text generating application may be executed by a text limited computing device the dictionary client may be used to assist the user in generating sentences phrases paragraphs or other text. For example a user of a video game console may be attempting to write a review of a favorite film. The user may have selected a rating for the review e.g. thumbs up and in response to the rating selection the text generating application may invoke the dictionary client .

A request to receive one or more dictionaries is sent at . The request may be sent by the dictionary client to the dictionary server . The request may include metadata. The metadata may include the type of text generating application that is generating the text. Other data may also be included. Continuing the example described above the metadata may include the proposed rating and the title or genre of the film being reviewed.

One or more dictionaries are received at . The dictionaries may be received by the dictionary client from the dictionary server . The one or more dictionaries may have metadata that matches some or all of the metadata associated with the request. For example the dictionaries may be dictionaries that were created for positive reviews of films in the specified genre of the film.

A plurality of user interface elements is displayed at . The user interface elements may be displayed by the dictionary client . Each of the user interface elements may correspond to a sentence component and may display one or more words and phrases from the one or more dictionaries corresponding to the sentence components. Example user interface elements are illustrated further with respect to for example. In some implementations the dictionary client may send a new request to receive a dictionary to the dictionary server in response to for example an indication by the user that the currently displayed dictionary is not satisfactory and the user wishes to be presented with a different set of words and phrases. In such a case responsive to the indication by the user received at the dictionary client processing may continue at or for example.

A selection corresponding to one or more words and phrases of the plurality of user interface elements is received at . The selection may be received by the dictionary client . The selected words and phrases may form a complete sentence phrase or paragraph for example. In an implementation the user may cycle through the words or phrases displayed in each user interface element and construct a complete sentence from the words or phrases.

Text is generated using the selected one or more words and phrases at . The text may be generated by dictionary client from the selected words and phrases. The generated text may be provided to the text generating client by the dictionary client .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing system . In its most basic configuration computing system typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing system may have additional features functionality. For example computing system may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing system typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing system and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing system .

Computing system may contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Computing system may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter.

Although exemplary implementations may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

