---

title: Method and system for managing and sharing geographically-linked content
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to the field of content sharing over a network using geographical tags, particularly multimedia content relating to community, genealogical and historical information. The content that can be shared via preferred embodiments may take many forms, such as images, genealogical data, video, audio, etc. Preferably, the content comprises personalized content (such as family tree information, family photographs, neighborhood photographs, home video, home audio, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465890&OS=09465890&RS=09465890
owner: 
number: 09465890
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100809
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 232 654 entitled Method and System for Managing and Sharing Geographically Linked Content filed Aug. 10 2009 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of content sharing over a network using geographical tags particularly multimedia content relating to community genealogical and historical information.

The content that can be shared via preferred embodiments of the present invention may take many forms such as images genealogical data video audio etc. Preferably the content comprises personalized content such as family tree information family photographs neighborhood photographs home video home audio document images etc. .

A website is preferably the mechanism through which such content is shared among a plurality of users. A server can be configured to host the website and a user may access the website through a network such as the Internet via his her computer.

Content can be stored in a database as a plurality of data structures. These data structures and their data associations can define the who what when where and even why of life events for large communities of people. Different types of content can have different data structures. Examples of different data structures that can be supported by the exemplary embodiments described herein are marker data structures media data structures people data structures and genealogical data structures. Preferably these data structures are associated with a geographic location either directly or indirectly e.g. indirectly via an association with another data structure where the another data structure is associated with a geographic location to permit a location based technique for accessing data structures of interest through the website s graphical user interfaces GUIs .

The marker data structures associated with geographic locations can be used to identify things such as residences of particular persons workplaces of particular persons vacation destinations of particular persons or even general places of interest etc. Through exemplary GUIs described herein users can create such marker data structures and associate them not only with geographic locations but other forms of information including but not limited to other people and media. Some marker data structures can also be associated with temporal data e.g. a year or range of years to identify the time context in which a particular location is relevant to a user. Such time associations also permit time based searches for relevant information.

The people data structures are associated with people. Through the website such people data structures can be associated with one or more geographic locations either directly or indirectly e.g. an indirect association via an association with a marker data structure that identifies a residence of a particular person .

The media data structures can be created for content such as images e.g. photographs or video audio or other such media. Once again through the website these media data structures can be associated with geographic locations whether they be municipalities counties other geographical oriented political divisions addresses etc. one or more people data structures and or one or more marker data structures.

The genealogical data structures are associated with people and or families. An exemplary genealogical data structure is family tree information such as a Gedcom file as explained hereinafter. Once again through the website genealogical data structures can be associated with locations people data structures marker data structures and or media data structures.

Leveraging the associations that exist in the database between these different data structures and the associations that the data structures have with other data a website can be implemented that provides users with a number of GUIs for learning great amounts of information about people and places of interest that would otherwise be virtually unknowable. Through exemplary embodiments disclosed herein users can be permitted to access any data structure that is accessible to them. If a practitioner chooses to implement an embodiment of the invention such that all data structures are publicly available to all users then all data structures will be accessible to all users. If a practitioner chooses to implement an embodiment of the invention where data structures will have a user defined privacy setting the accessibility of data structures will be a function of a privacy setting relative to the user s status with respect to that privacy setting. Thus in a regime where data structures can have one of three privacy settings public private to user and private to group the accessible data structures for a given user would be the public data structures the private to user data structures that are specific to that given user and the private to group data structures that are specific to a group of which that given user is a member.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon a review of the disclosure herein.

Server comprises a processor that is configured to execute software to provide the website functions and content access to users as described herein. The software preferably comprises processor executable code resident on a computer readable storage medium such as computer memory e.g. RAM ROM or data storage disks. It should be understood that the processor can comprise a plurality of processors such as distributed processors on separate servers different processing cores on a multi processor etc. if desired. Also the processor within server can be any processor with sufficient computational power for carrying out the processes described herein. For example the processors within standard off the shelf servers are suitable.

The database can be implemented on any device for storing data such as the hard drive of a computer whether the data be stored as files in a file system as records in a relational database or the like or some combination thereof . It should also be understood that the database can if desired be distributed across a plurality of memory devices.

The user computers can be devices such as personal computers workstations laptop notebook or tablet computers mobile telephones e.g. smart phones cell phones etc. configured with user interface features and network connectivity so long as these devices have sufficient processing power and user interface capabilities to perform the operations described herein in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. For example a web browser or the like executed on the user computer can be one way by which the user computers access the website hosted by web server .

When the user accesses the website the web server interacts with the database server to retrieve the appropriate content and provides a graphical user interface GUI page for display on the user s computer that presents content to the user preferably through a map interface.

As indicated above and described in greater detail herein with a preferred embodiment of the present invention content is preferably stored in the database as a plurality of data structures and indexed by a geographical identifier such as an address and or a latitude longitude coordinate that corresponds to that content. For example family photographs of Family A can be indexed by a geographical identifier for the home in which Family A lived when that photograph was taken. When uploading such content to the website a user preferably tags the content with such geographical identifiers.

A registered user of the inventive system can then access this database through the website and navigate through its content via a map optionally a satellite map that is displayed on the user s computer screen. The map is preferably presented in a GUI page of the website that is accessed via browser software running on the user s computer. Selectable marker icons are displayed on the satellite map at locations corresponding to the geographical identifiers against which content has been indexed e.g. see pin in . Upon user selection of a marker icon the content that is indexed by that geographic identifier is then presented to the user an example of which is shown in . Display illustrates an exemplary map with a marker icon superimposed thereon see pin to identify the existence of geo indexed content. In response to user selection of this marker icon display is presented to the user. Such a display may list the different content associated with that geographic location in the database. In response to user selection of one of the listed content items see links display can be presented to the user to permit the user to view the desired content.

The content files can also be indexed by a date or range of dates. Multiple maps e.g. satellite maps road maps topographical maps etc. can then be available for display to users broken down by date or range of dates . For older dates where certain types of maps are not available e.g. satellite map imagery is not available conventional maps from the dates in question can be used. For example as shown in a user can filter the map view from a current day to a time in the past for that geographic area . If desired the older map can display any marker icons associated with that area for the time period in question.

Such older maps can be historical plat maps or the like for geographic areas. Furthermore these older maps can be geo referenced and scaled with respect to latitude longitude coordinates and or current maps such as a USGS DOQ aerial map or other UTM or World File geo referenced maps using third party software such as ESRI ArcGIS or shareware programs like HyperCube that employs map layers common points and morphing. Accordingly a geographical location known for a current map can be tied to a corresponding location on an older map. Thus a user will not only have the ability to scroll geographically to find geo referenced content of interest but the user will also have the ability to scroll through time to find such content. Tabs can be added to each displayed map that would allow the user to scroll back forward in time to view older newer maps for a given location. Thus a user could access a 2009 photograph of the Smith family via a 2009 map of the Smith family s neighborhood city region and to access a 1960 photograph of the Smith family the user could navigate back to a 1960 map of that neighborhood city region. Also links can be embedded in family tree information or a page such as the second list window displayed in the diagram above that would allow the user to trace the Smith family s geographic movements over time as explained below.

Users of this system will also preferably have the ability to specify who of the other registered users will have access to their stored content. For example users can designate access to their content by invitation only such as by allowing other relatives who are registered users to access the content . Likewise users can allow full public access to their content to all registered users. Such designations can be made on a file by file basis such that some of a user s content can be made public while other content will be available by invitation only. By creating groups of users who can access shared content the website will be accessible to multiple social networks of users some of which may have overlapping users i.e. users who are members of more than one group . The website software can further be configured to detect when a user is a member of multiple groups. After detecting such a condition the website can query group members as to whether their content is to be made available to members of the other group. In the event of receiving user authorizations to link content the two groups content files can then be made available across groups. The inventor believes that this feature can be particularly advantageous in connection with building family trees when different branches of a family with a common ancestor are located thereby allowing families to expand their genealogical information organically. Preferably the genealogical information is stored by the database in accordance with the well known GEDCOM format to enable third party genealogy software to process genealogical information and build family trees.

Thus through a preferred embodiment the website permits users to build a comprehensive database in which families neighbors and any other users can exchange personal photographs video and other content in a new and interesting manner.

It should further be understood that the association chain shown in i.e. location to media to person is exemplary only. For example a practitioner may also or choose to further permit direct associations between people data structures and marker data structures .

If desired a practitioner may choose to employ a plurality of different types of people data structures as exemplified by . A first type of people data structure can include brief summary information about a person such as the subject person s name any associations to media data structures and an identification of the owner i.e. the user who created the subject person data structure . In an exemplary embodiment the MyPeople data structures are accessible to all users of the system. However this need not be the case. For example if desired a MyPeople data structure can be associated with a privacy setting that would control whether the subject MyPeople data structure is publicly available to all users completely private or available to only select other users e.g. users who are members of a select user group with the owner .

A second type of people data structure can include more detailed information about a person such as information that can be characterized as genealogical information. This second type of people data structure can thus also be referred to as a genealogical data structure. To identify this genealogical significance such people data structures can be referred to as MyGedcom data structures where Gedcom refers to the well known Genealogical Data Communication standard for exchanging genealogical information between different software applications. While Gedcom is described herein as a preferred standard for formatting genealogy information in a data structure it should be understood that other formatting standards could be employed if desired. Furthermore the MyGedcom data structure may also employ more data fields and associations than would be employed by a conventional Gedcom record as explained herein.

A MyGedcom data structure can be associated with data such as the subject person s name identifiers links for any parents and children preferably links to other MyGedcom data structures for those parents and children where in the aggregate these links serve to create a family tree data for various life events e.g. births deaths education etc. location identifiers for these life events temporal data that identifies when various ones of these life events occurred one or more media data structures and the owner for the MyGedcom data structure . Moreover in an exemplary embodiment a given MyGedcom data structure need not have data for all of these associations depicted in as there may be many holes in a MyGedcom data structure in situations where the owner does not know enough information about the subject person.

In an exemplary embodiment the MyGedcom data structures are only accessible to the owner or to other users selected by the owner e.g. users who are members of a select user group with the owner . However this need not be the case. For example if desired a MyGedcom data structure can be associated with a privacy setting that would control whether the subject MyGedcom data structure is publicly available to all users completely private or available to only select other users.

A practitioner can also choose to employ a third type of people data structure . In the example of in an embodiment where the MyGedcom data structures are limited access data structures this third type of people data structure can be a MyGedcom data structure that has been made publicly available. Such a data structure can be referred to as a Published Gedcom data structure. The general data associations for a Published Gedcom data structure are generally the same as those for the MyGedcom data structure once again with the different in this exemplary embodiment being that the Published Gedcom data structure is accessible to all users of the system. As such this third type of people data structure can also be referred to as genealogical data structure.

Any of a number of criteria could be employed to govern when a MyGedcom data structure is also made into or converted into a Published Gedcom data structure . For example the website can automatically convert a MyGedcom data structure into a Published Gedcom data structure if one or more conditions are met. As an example the system can automatically perform such a conversion if the subject MyGedcom data structure has 1 an associated birth event date 2 an associated death event date 3 an associated death event location and 4 there is at least one media data structure associated with the subject MyGedcom data structure . However the system could employ more fewer or different criteria for automatically converting MyGedcom data structures into Published Gedcom data structures. For example if desired the system can permit the owner to convert a MyGedcom data structure into a Published Gedcom data structure on request by the owner if desired.

As shown in users can create associations between MyPeople data structures and MyGedcom data structures if desired as explained below. Users can further create associations between MyGedcom data structures and Published Gedcom data structures if desired as explained below. Further still if desired the system could also be configured to permit users to create direct associations between MyPeople and Published Gedcom data structures and

It should be understood that the components of the marker data structures media data structures and user data structures shown in are exemplary only and a practitioner may choose to design such data structures with more fewer or different data components. Moreover not all data structures of a particular type need to have the same data type components. For example some marker data structures may comprise only a label and location data some media data structures may not have an classification data some user data structures may not have any address information etc.

That is depicts a case study for the exemplary website described herein where User X selects via a map interface a marker data structure for L which User X knows to be his father s P s old workplace . In response to this marker selection User X is accesses all accessible media data structures associated with L. This includes M M and M possibly as well as others not shown . Upon accessing M which is an old photograph submitted by User Y to the database User X notices that his father P is depicted in that old photograph. User X further sees through the website that M has been tagged with an association to Bob P which happens to be his father s first name. At this point User X can access website functionality examples of which are described below to search the database for all media associated with P. This search further yields M which also depicts User X s father as Bob . From this information User X deduces that Bob is in fact his father thus P and P are referring the same person. In response to this deduction User X can employ website functionality that either 1 creates an association that ties P with M and M see which shows new data association links tying P with M and M or 2 creates an association that ties P with P see which shows a new people association link . By making these associations User X is able to further bring new media M and M into association with the people data structure P he has created for this father.

That is depicts a further case study for this exemplary data set. Through the L selection User X also gains access to M. M is a photograph of three people standing in front of an office building. Only one person is identified in the photo through the website and this person P is unknown to User X. However User X does recognize that his father appears in the photograph as an unidentified person. In response to this recognition User X can use the website to tag M with an association to P. Furthermore using the website User X can further investigate any other connections P may have had to his father by searching the database for all media data structures associated with P. In response to this search User X is able to access M M and M. In reviewing these media data structures User X also recognizes his father as an unidentified person in a photograph for M. Accordingly User X can also tag M with an association to P via the website. In doing so User X is able to further associate his father s people data structure P with two more media data structures M and M of which he was previously unaware as well as learn that his father had a connection with location L of which he was previously unaware see showing new data association links tying P with M and M . Should User X wish he could further investigate his father s trail through the website for example by searching for all media data structures associated with L which may yield more media depicting his father .

Therefore the examples of demonstrate the power of information discovery provided by the data structure associations of an exemplary embodiment of the invention. Through a location based investigation of L User X was able to discover and bring at least 4 new media data structures and one new marker data structure for L pertaining to his father into association with his father s people data structure. However it should be understood that this case study is exemplary only and many other flexible investigation techniques can be employed by users to discover more information about people and places of interest as described below.

Turning to an exemplary website that a practitioner may employ to provide users with access to database a number of GUIs for such a website will be described.

The GUI also preferably includes a section through which a user can either log in to the website or create a user registration with the website. Standard techniques for user log in and registration can be employed including the use of cookies to recognize returning registered users so as to obviate the need for a user to key in a user name and password each time he she accesses the website.

In response to user selection of the Add as a Marker button the exemplary GUI of is preferably displayed. This GUI may optionally display the defined geographic location for the marker on a map to permit the user to confirm that the marker is properly positioned. Furthermore the GUI of is preferably configured to permit the user to tag the marker with various pieces of information. That is through the exemplary GUI the system receives data from the user to be associated with the marker. The user can specify a name for the marker. The user can also specify a view type for the marker preferably via a drop down menu of pre existing view type choices . Exemplary classifications for view type include 1 history 2 family and friends and 3 genealogy. However it should be understood that more fewer or different view types can be employed. By associating markers with view types the user can control what markers are presented on a map via input from the home page or similar GUI where the user can filter the marker displays by view type criteria see the history family friends genealogy options in .

Other user input fields in may generally correspond to the data components of the marker data structure shown in . Preferably the user is able to populate these data fields with selections from a list of pre determined options for those data fields via drop down menus or the like. Examples of predetermined options for these fields are listed in the exemplary administrative GUIs discussed below and shown in the figures. However if desired the GUI could also be configured to permit the user to enter a free form description of fields such as the marker type.

If the user defined the geographic location by address input in the address fields for the marker in are preferably pre filled based on the user specified address. However if the user specified the geographic location by other means the address fields can be left blank for the user to fill in if known. Preferably address fields are street address city state zip code and county. The latitude and longitude fields are preferably pre filled based on the location data input via . Conventional mapping techniques can be employed to determine the latitude and longitude coordinates for a specified location.

The portion of the GUI shown in permits the user to associate a media file such as a photograph with a marker to be the default visual representation of the marker in a thumbnail view or the like. The photograph can be uploaded to the database for later access by a user of the website. Through the GUI the user can associate various data with the photograph. For example the user can associate a subject and topic with the photograph preferably via a drop down menu of pre existing subjects and topics options for which are listed and shown below in connection with the administrative GUIs .

Further still the user can specify a name for the photograph and further tag the photograph with a year or range of years . The GUI can also be configured to receive free form user input that describes the photograph. If the photograph includes any people and the user wants to identify the people in the photograph the user can check the Assign People to Picture After Saving option to initiate a tagging process described below in connection with .

To identify the photograph to be uploaded and associated with the marker and with the data entered in the GUI of the user can specify the file path and file name for the photograph. If these are not known the user can select the Browse button to look within the computer s file system for the photograph.

After completing the desired data inputs in the GUI of the user can add the marker data structure including any associated data such as the default photograph to the database. If a default picture was tied to the marker data structure the data corresponding to this default picture can be stored in the database as a media data structure associated with the subject marker data structure.

The GUI of also preferably includes a lower section that presents all other media data structures that are associated with the subject marker data structure. This presentation can be organized in any of a number of ways e.g. thumbnail views of each media data structure larger views of same list views of same etc. . In the example of the user can switch between different views by selectable tabs as shown. An Overview tab can be selected to display a list of associated media in summary form below the tab. An All Media tab can be selected to display an enlarged view of all associated media below the tab as shown in . Further still for media data structures having associated temporal data such as a year or year range a selectable tab can be provided for each year found in the associated media data structures. Upon selection of a tab corresponding to a particular year the GUI presents an enlarged view of each media file corresponding to that year. This ability to filter media views by year can be effective in permitting users to quickly hone in on time periods of interest they may have with respect to a particular location.

Through a click action on a listed or displayed media item e.g. by right clicking on an enlarged view of a media file or through a selectable Edit Media link like the one shown in the GUI of can be displayed. As can be seen through this GUI a user can add further data for association with a particular media data structure. This GUI preferably displays the name for the marker data structure associated with the subject media item in a read only field. Furthermore as can be seen in the GUI permits the user to add edit the exemplary fields for a media data structure shown in . Once again drop down menus can be used to provide users with a list of pre determined options for various ones of these data fields see the administrative GUIs shown in the figures and described below for exemplary options in this regard .

As indicated the GUI of permits the user to specify a privacy setting for the media item. This privacy setting will control how the media item can be viewed by other users of the website. If marked as private the media item will be viewable only by the user. Optionally this setting may also permit the media item to be viewed by other users who share a common user group with the owner for that media item. If marked as public or non private the content item will be viewable by all users of the website. Optionally the system may provide for three privacy settings a first private level where only the owner has permission to view a second private level where only the users who share a user group with the owner have permission to view optionally set on a user group by user group basis and a public level where all users have permission to view.

The GUI of can also be configured to receive user input that associates the media item with a user group. As explained below a user group is a collection of users who share certain media items. In the example of the media item is to be associated with the WilsonNuclearFamily user group. A drop down menu can be used to list the user group options that are available for user selection. Preferably this list is limited to user groups of which the user is a member but this need not be the case. If the user wants to add the specified user group to the associations for the content item he she can select the Add Group button. The GUI can also list any user groups with which the content item is already associated. Each such listed user group can be selected by the user for de association with respect to the content item via the Remove From List button.

If the user has any other information that he she wishes to associate with the media item a plurality of note fields for free form user entry can be provided. For example if the user wants to associate a website with a media item the user can enter the Uniform Resource Locator URL for the website in one of the note fields. The website can be configured to include certain notes in a balloon summary of a marker data structure associated with the media item when the user hovers a cursor over the associated marker display as discussed below in connection with . Furthermore the website can be configured to treat user entries in other note items as a user defined view type or other classification for the associated marker data structure. This view type could then be added to the user s options of view type marker filtering on the map interface.

Lastly the GUI of can permit the user to specify the file name of the media item for the media data structure a general function described above in connection with and adding a default media item to a marker data structure.

After a marker data structure has been created the user can view an icon corresponding to that marker data structure via a map display. depicts an example of this. Marker icons are displayed on the map at locations having an association with a marker. In response to the user clicking on a marker icon or hovering the cursor near a marker icon a pop up balloon can be displayed near the subject marker icon that provides additional information about the subject marker icon. This balloon preferably includes a thumbnail view of any media item associated with the marker and a user selectable link to view fuller details about the marker and its associated media item s . A similar example can be seen in after a user has zoomed in to a lower level of map detail. In this example the marker has an associated website for which a user selectable link is included in the balloon. As indicated above a user can add this website link to the marker icon display by identifying the website Uniform Resource Locator URL in a select note field of a media data structure associated with the subject marker for example Note 1 . Should a user select the website link a popup window such as that shown in can be displayed for the user to access the website corresponding to the website link. This can be a useful tool for users to drive business to a desired website and or provide users with access to websites that may have additional information of interest to users such as a website through which genealogy information may be accessed as discussed below .

Thus when a user accesses the website he she can view marker icons that are positioned on maps at positions corresponding to their associated geographic locations. The user has a number of options for filtering the views of markers that are presented on the map interface. and depicts exemplary embodiments of such view filtering capabilities.

The website also provides the users with GUIs for viewing and editing their user accounts. To access the GUI s for doing so the user can select the My Account tab shown in the exemplary GUIs in many of the figures. In response to selection of such a My Account tab the exemplary GUI of is presented to the user. As shown in this GUI permits the user to edit his her biographical information that was previously submitted during the registration process. Should the user have entered a number of previous addresses these previous addresses can be displayed in a table or the like as shown in . Should the user want to make any changes to the information that he she provided at registration the user can do so via the GUI of .

Should the user want to review the markers he she has created the user can select the My Markers link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My Markers link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. displays a list of all markers that the user has created. Each marker is preferably presented on the list with selectable links to 1 view additional details about the marker 2 edit marker details and 3 delete the marker. Additionally the list preferably identifies each marker by name type subtype and view type to permit the user to more readily identify what each listed marker corresponds to.

Should the user want to review the media items he she has added to the database the user can select the My Media link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My Media link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. displays a list of all media items that the user has added to the database. Each media item is preferably presented on the list with selectable links to 1 view additional details about the media item 2 edit media item details and 3 delete the media item. Additionally the list preferably identifies each media item by name description date ranges privacy setting creator its corresponding marker name its view type subject and topic to permit the user to more readily identify what each listed media item corresponds to.

Should the user want to review the favorite markers he she has created the user can select the My Favorite Markers link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My Favorite Markers link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. displays a list of the favorite markers associated with the user. A criteria that can be used to classify a marker as a favorite marker can be based on the number of times that the viewer has viewed the marker. If the number of views exceeds a predetermined threshold then the marker can be deemed a favorite . Additionally or alternately favorite markers can be defined in response to user input e.g. a user could be given the option to select a link or input a click action that would register a subject marker as one of the user s favorite markers . Each marker is preferably presented on the list in a manner similar to the marker list shown in . It should further be understood that markers that can qualify as favorite markers for a user are preferably not limited to the user s own markers and may include any marker data structure accessible to the user. Further still to define markers which qualify as favorites the system could be configured to employ a process whereby users vote or rank the markers they review and where the system processes and quantifies such votes rankings to determine a best of class or the like concerning various quality user interest or other qualifiers for markers or their associated media to decide which markers qualify as favorites .

Should the user want to review his her viewing history with respect to markers the user can select the My Marker View History link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My Marker View History link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. displays a list of all markers that the user had clicked on over a specified time period. The system can define this time period is a view history over the past week month year or other time period e.g. since user registration . Each marker is preferably presented on the list with a selectable link to view additional details about the marker. Additionally the list preferably identifies each marker by name type subtype view type and the date time the marker was last viewed by the user to permit the user to more readily identify what each listed marker corresponds to.

Should the user want to review markers associated with the private marker groups of which he she is a member the user can select the My Private Marker Groups link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My Private Marker Groups link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. displays a list of all private marker groups of which the user is a member. This list preferably includes selectable links to 1 display the marker list associated with each marker group 2 edit each marker group and 3 delete each marker group. Additionally this list preferably identifies the name for each marker group identifies the privacy setting for each marker group identifies whether the marker group is editable and identifies the creator for the marker group. The creator of a particular marker group can control through user input whether the subject marker group is public or private . Optionally the GUI can include a user selectable button that is effective to initiate the process of adding a new marker group to the system.

Should the user select the View Marker List link for a listed marker group the GUI preferably also displays a list of the markers associated with that marker group in another section of the GUI an example of this is shown in where the markers for the Wilson Ancestorial Homes group are listed . This marker list preferably includes fields similar to those shown in the marker lists of but may also include fields that identify the creator for the marker and the user who added the marker to the user group. Optionally the GUI may also include a field for user input to associate another marker with the marker group. This user input field may take the form of a drop down menu that is populated with the user s other markers or optionally all accessible markers in the database . In response to user selection of a marker from among these options the system can add the marker to the marker group if the user selects the Add Marker to Group button. It should be noted that the software can be configured to restrict the ability of adding markers to a marker group to only the marker group creator if desired.

Should the user want to review markers associated with any of the public marker groups in the database or optionally any of the public marker groups of which the user is a member the user can select the My Public Marker Groups link shown in the left portion of FIG. . In response to the selection of the My Public Marker Groups link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. is similar to albeit the marker groups that are listed are the public marker groups stored in the database.

Should the user want to review the user groups of which he she is a member the user can select the My User Groups link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the My User Groups link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. lists each user group of which the user is a member. Preferably these groups are listed by name and include user selectable links for the user to assign users to the group and view the members of the group. The assignment of users to a group can be implemented where a user such as the group creator has the ability to add a user to a group regardless of whether the user consents to joining the group. In such an embodiment by virtue of being a member of User X s user group a member user would be entitled to access User X s private media. Alternatively the system be configured where the user s action of assigning a member to a group results in an invitation being sent to the assigned user whereupon actual membership in the group for the assigned user is contingent upon that user s acceptance of the invitation. Optionally the GUI may include an Add Group button or the like that is user selectable to initiate the process of creating a new user group.

If the user select the Add Group button shown in or any of the Add a New Group buttons shown in the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. Through the GUI of the user can define a name for the new user group. After defining the name for the new user group the exemplary GUI of is presented to the user. Through this GUI the user can assign users to the new user group. A drop down menu can be populated with all users registered with the system and the user can then select from among these listed users when deciding who to include in the user group. As mentioned above this assignment process can be implemented on a consensual or nonconsensual basis. This process of assigning users to the group can be repeated until the user has assigned all users who he she desires to be members of the new user group. The exemplary GUI of shows a list of the assigned members of the new user group.

Should the user want to review a list of the other users who are registered with the system the user can select the User List link shown in the left portion of . In response to the selection of the User List link the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user which lists each registered user. Preferably each user is listed by their user name email address if public and a selectable link to view a list of all media added to the database by that user. A GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user in response to user selection of the selectable View Media link for a particular user on the user list. As can be seen from this GUI can list all of the media items submitted by the subject user. The GUI of can be similar to that of albeit for the media items submitted by a different user rather than the media items submitted by the user himself herself.

The GUI of also preferably permits the user to filter the listed users by geographic area. That is each user is preferably associated with geographic area such as a city state county and or zip code by virtue of the information submitted at the time of registration for their current and or former addresses. The exemplary GUI of can be configured to permit the user to filter the list of users by each user s associated geographic area to provide more effective management of the user list in situations where a user has a large user list. In the examples of the geographic area filter is a county filter. Furthermore the filter can be configured to filter using only the users current address information or both the current and former addresses of the users. For example depicts an exemplary user list that has been filtered to show only those users whose current or former addresses of record fall within Champaign County in Illinois. FIG. depicts an exemplary user list that has been filtered to show only those users whose current addresses are associated with Pinal County in Arizona.

A user can also view and edit the people content with which he she is associated. To access the GUI s for doing so the user can select the My People tab shown in the exemplary GUIs in many of the figures. In response to selection of such a My People tab the exemplary GUI of is presented to the user. As shown in this GUI permits the user to view the people data structures for which the user is the owner. Each person is preferably listed by name first middle and last gender aliases or nicknames and an owner the user who added the person to the database . Each person is also preferably listed with user selectable links for 1 editing the stored information for that person 2 adding viewing a photograph for that person 3 identifying editing relationship information for that person and 4 deleting that person from the database.

Should a user want to add a people data structure to the database the user can select the Add a person link shown in . In response to selection of this link a GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user. Through this GUI the user can enter information for creating a people data structure e.g. first middle and last names and a gender . Optionally the GUI can include additional user input fields for identifying one or more nicknames aliases for the subject person and for identifying a relationship with the owner e.g. friend son daughter father mother brother sister etc. .

Should a user wish to add or view a photograph associated with a listed person the user can select the Add View Portraits link for that person to cause the display of the exemplary GUI shown in . This GUI displays all photographs in the database that are associated with the person in question. Preferably the photographs are displayed in ascending or descending order with respect to the time data associated with the photograph in the database. In this way a user can view photographs of that person over time e.g. from infancy through childhood and adulthood. Each photograph is preferably displayed with caption data if the database stores associated caption data for the photograph and a year that the photograph was believed to have been taken if the database stores associated year information for the photograph . If the person also has birth year data associated therewith the GUI can automatically categorize the photographs with respect to age ranges for the person e.g. infancy for photographs corresponding to when the person was 2 years old or younger childhood for photographs corresponding to when the person was between ages 2 and 11 youth for photographs corresponding to when the person was between ages 12 17 etc. .

By identifying an age range for a person appearing in a media item users may be able to contribute additional information about the media they are viewing. For example the owner of the media item may only have known a relatively small amount of information about the tagged person e.g. the media item shows Earl Wachtel as a child in the year 1925 . However another user who is the self appointed genealogist for the family may know that the depicted Earl Wachtel was actually Earl Wachtel Jr. the child of Earl Wachtel Sr. and the parent of Earl Wachtel III. This another user may then be able to use the year and age range data in the displayed media item to properly identify which Earl Wachtel is shown and then leverage this knowledge to create an association between the media data structure for that media item and the genealogy data structure for Earl Wachtel Jr. .

If the user wants to add edit any caption data or year data for the photographs the user can do so via the GUI of . Optionally the system may restrict editing capabilities on the basis of user status. For example the system may permit a user to edit photographic information only if the user is the owner of the person or photograph or within a user group that shares access to the person or photograph. If a user wants to add a photograph for association with the person in question the GUI can include fields for doing so similar to the add media GUIs discussed herein.

Should a user wish to add or edit relationship information between himself herself and a person on the list of the user can select one of the relationship links shown in for that person e.g. the Edit Friend Relationship link the Edit Child Relationship link the Add Relationship links etc. . In response to user selection of one of these links an exemplary GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user. This GUI permits the user to selection a relationship type from among a plurality of available relationship types via a drop down menu. In response to the user s selection from among these options the database can store data that defines a relationship for the subject person to the user or vice versa e.g. spouse child friend parent etc. in association with both the subject person and the user.

After a user has registered himself herself with the website the user can also add view and edit the genealogical data structures for which he she is the owner. To access the GUI s for doing so the user can select the My Gedcom tab shown in the exemplary GUIs in many of the figures. In response to selection of such a My Gedcom tab the exemplary GUI of is presented to the user which lists all MyGedcom data structures for which the user is the owner. Each person is preferably listed by name first middle and last gender birth year death year owner and a status. The status identifier can be used to identify the extent of information contained within the MyGedcom data structures and their relationships with other genealogy data structures. For example the status code P can be used to identify a MyGedcom data structure that contains sufficient information for it to qualify as a Published Gedcom data structure. The status code L can be used to identify a MyGedcom data structure that has been linked to a master Published Gedcom data structure. The status code U can be used to identify an unpublished MyGedcom data structure i.e. one that is not publicly accessible . The status code M can be used to identify a master Published Gedcom data structure that has other genealogy data structures subordinated to it.

Each person in a MyGedcom data structure can also be listed with user selectable links for 1 viewing additional details for that person 2 viewing all media items associated with that person and 3 deleting that person from the database.

Should the user wish to view additional details for a person listed in the user can select the View . . . link in the View Details column for that person. In response to selection of this link an exemplary GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user. As shown in the GUI preferably identifies the subject person as well as the owner of record for that person in the database . With respect to this person the user can view and edit data relating to that person in a number of ways. First as shown in the person s Gedcom header information can be reviewed. Also that person s immediate family as known from the family tree data for that person is shown. An exemplary criteria for classification as immediate family can be parent child and sibling relations.

It may be the case that the subject person on the family tree is already represented in the database as another record e.g. another people data structure whether under the same name or a different name. In such a situation the user may want to effectively associate the two records such that the genealogy data structure is augmented by the media data structures associated with that people data structure in the database. Should the user want to associate the subject person with another people data structure in the database the user can select the Associate to People tab shown in . In response to user selection of this tab the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. The user can select the Add Person to Gedcom to display a list of people data structures in the database see . Preferably this system populates this list with all accessible people data structures in the database with respect to the user. Optionally each list person can be paired with the owner for the subject people data structure. If there is a person on this list that the user believes to be the same person as the subject person in the MyGedcom record the user can select this person from the list. In this example it can be seen that the user has chosen to associate the MyGedcom record for Lulu Belle Snider with the people data structure for Lulu Belle Wachtel while shows the GUI being used to further associate Lulu Belle Snider s MyGedcom data structure with the people data structure for Grandma Lulu Snyder . After a user has created this association all media items with which the people data structure for Lulu Belle Wachtel and the people data structure for Grandma Lulu Snyder become associated with the MyGedcom data structure for Lulu Belle Snider . In doing so a family historian or genealogist can leverage the multi user networked power of the data associations present in the database to gain additional knowledge about family members.

The user can also view add or edit life events to the Gedcom record for the subject person. In response to a selection of the Gedcom Events tab a GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user. lists the known life events e.g. birth education death etc. for the subject person that are present in the Gedcom data structure. Each of these events can have associated location data to specify where the event took place. This location data can be specified by municode or other geographic identifier. If the user wants to add a life event to the subject person s Gedcom record he she can select the Add New Event button. After such a selection the user can define the type of life event by making a selection from the drop down menu as shown in the exemplary GUI of . From there the user can enter data in the date place source info source location and text fields as desired see . To tie the life event to a geographic location the user can provide a geographic identifier for the life event such as a county identification. illustrates how the user can select a county for the life event via a drop down menu. This county selection can then be translated to a municode using known associations between counties and municodes.

Should the user wish to view additional all media items associated with a person listed in the user can select the View Media link in the View Media column for that person. In response to selection of this link an exemplary GUI such as the one shown in can be presented to the user. As shown in the GUI preferably lists all of the media items associated with the subject MyGedcom data structure. Each media item can be listed by a name a thumbnail if appropriate its subject topic applicable year s owner and geographic identifier. The list can also include a selectable link for each media item to access an enlarged view of that media item. depicts an exemplary enlarged view of a media item from the list. If the media item is a photograph and people have been tagged in that photograph see discussions below in connection with the photograph display can display a border around the known people together with a label to identify the person as shown in . A table below the photograph can list all of the people who have been tagged within the photograph.

Should the user want to import a MyGedcom data structure to the database the user can select the Import link shown in see also and other figures . Following selection of the Import link depict exemplary GUIs through which the user can import a MyGedcom data structure to the database. depicts an exemplary GUI through which the user can browse for a Gedcom compliant file to upload to the database. If the upload is successful a GUI such as the one shown in can be displayed.

Upon successful upload the exemplary GUI of includes a display that lists each person record in the uploaded Gedcom compliant file. Each person is preferably listed by name and gender. Each person can also be listed by a selectable View . . . link for viewing the genealogical information present in the person s record from the uploaded Gedcom compliant file. Each person can also be listed by a selectable box for controlling whether a MyGedcom data structure is to be created from the person s genealogy information present in the uploaded Gedcom compliant file.

It may be the case that the database already has a genealogy data structure for a person who has a record in the uploaded Gedcom compliant file. To alert the user to such situations the GUI can include view options corresponding to Records Ready for Import and Records with Conflicts . In response to selection of the Records Ready for Import option the GUI will list the people records in the uploaded Gedcom compliant file for which a name match was not found with respect to a genealogy data structure of the user s in the database. The GUI illustrates such a list.

In response to user selection of the Import button on the GUI the system will create genealogy data structures for storage in the database with respect to the listed people who have been checked off. These genealogy data structures will be populated with the genealogy information for the subject person from the uploaded Gedcom compliant file. After such an import operation there will be no more people records to view on the GUI as shown in the example of . However there will be new MyGedcom data structures that the user can view if the user selects the My Gedcom tab see .

If the user wants to upload another Gedcom compliant file to the website he she can do so using the same Import procedure identified under the Gedcom Options display. An example of this is shown in connection with . illustrates the newly imported people records from the uploaded Gedcom compliant file identified in that qualify as Records Ready for Import . If the user switches the view to Records with Conflicts the resultant GUI list of can be displayed. The people records listed in will be those people records from the newly uploaded Gedcom compliant file for which there was a name match with respect to one of the user s genealogy data structures. If the user wishes to continue with an import of the genealogy information for the subject person the user can check that person s corresponding box in the GUI. Then upon selection of the Overwrite button the system will overwrite the pre existing genealogy data structure for the subject person with the new genealogy information.

It should be understood that the system can employ a number of metrics for identifying when conflicts exist between newly uploaded genealogy information and pre existing genealogy data structures. For example in addition to or alternatively to name matching operations the system can perform matching operations against birth date death date parent children information etc. to make a decision regarding whether a conflict may exist. Furthermore to provide users with an ability to better evaluate whether the pre existing data structure should be overwritten the system can be configured to provide the user with a GUI that comparatively displays the information present in the two possibly conflicting records. For example in response to selecting a View Conflict link or the like a GUI can be presented that lists in a side by side fashion or the like the information in the two conflicting records. From this GUI the user can decide which record to keep. Further still the GUI could be configured to selectively merge different fields of genealogy information from either of the two conflicting records into a resultant merged genealogy data structure.

As shown in the GUI preferably identifies all of the people data structures that have been assigned to a subject media item. If the user wants to tag a media item with one or more additional persons the user can select the View Assign People to this Media link. After selecting this link the user can use his her mouse or other input device to draw a box around or otherwise identify a person in the photograph. The user can then create a label for this identification that provides a name for the person possibly in conjunction with a caption see . depicts another example of tagging a photograph with person identifiers. After a person has been isolated in the photograph the user can access a drop down menu that is populated with all of the people data structures in the database or if desired by a practitioner all of the people data structures for which the user is the owner . If the person in the photograph is on this list the user can select that name from the list to thereby associate the people data structure for that person with the photograph as well as specifically identify where that person appears in the photograph. Furthermore the user can identify an age range for the assigned person as shown in the media item. This data can then be used by the system to categorize the media item when displaying a chronological order of all media items for a particular person. After the media item is tagged with a person as can be seen in the GUI table for identifying people assigned to the media item can then be updated with the newly assigned person.

After a user has registered himself herself with the website the user can also view and edit the Published Gedcom data structures accessible in the database. As mentioned above preferably Published Gedcom data structures are available to all users of the system. To access the GUI s for doing so the user can select the Published Gedcom tab shown in the exemplary GUIs in many of the figures. In response to selection of such a Published Gedcom tab the exemplary GUI of is presented to the user. The GUI is preferably similar to the GUI of albeit for Published Gedcom data structures rather than MyGedcom data structures.

In response to the user selecting a View . . . link in the View Details column of for a person listed among the Published Gedcom data structures the exemplary GUI of can be presented to the user. This GUI is preferably similar to the GUI of albeit for published Gedcom records. However it is worth noting that the listed Published Gedcom data structures may optionally be listed with a user selectable Copy to MyGedcom link or the like which is effective upon user selection to create a copy of a Published Gedcom data structure as a MyGedcom data structure for which the user is the owner. Such a feature would permit a user to create his her own version of someone else s published Gedcom data structure and in doing so the user could associate media with the newly created MyGedcom data structure.

It may be the case that the user believes that two different published Gedcom data structures describe the same person. If this is the case the user may want to associate the two published Gedcom data structures to enlarge the potential knowledge base with respect the subject person and family. That is through a common family member two previous separate family trees can be linked. To initiate such a process the user can select the Associate to Another Gedcom tab to cause the display of the exemplary GUI of . Through this interface a user will have the ability to create an association between a published Gedcom data structure for which he she is the master e.g. the owner or designated master of a user group having control over the subject Published Gedcom data structure and another Published Gedcom data structure. To associate the published Gedcom data structure for Earl Glen Wachtel with another published Gedcom data structure the user can select the Add Gedcom to Master Gedcom data structure. This will cause the exemplary GUI of FIG. to be displayed which is a list populated with all Published Gedcom data structures in the database preferably identified by name and the associated owner . If the user wishes to associate a target Published Gedcom data structure on this list with the subject master Published Gedcom data structure the user can select the listed person. In response to this selection the system creates an association between the two Published Gedcom data structures thereby bringing any media associated with the target Published Gedcom data structure under the umbrella of the user s master Published Gedcom data structure for that person.

It may also be the case that the GUI that lists all published Gedcom data structures displays a large number of published Gedcom data structures. To facilitate the user s interactions with this list the GUI can be configured to provide the user with filtering capabilities. show exemplary GUIs that provide filtering functions. In the example of the user can filter the listed published Gedcom entries by life events. In this way only the Gedcom entries having an association with the user specified life event will be displayed. In the example of the user can filter the listed published Gedcom entries by a geographic identifier e.g. a county as explained above .

Returning to the primary map interface exemplified by the GUI of a marker corresponding to the Wilson Duplex associated with the user is displayed on the map at a position corresponding to its geographic location. The balloon associated with the marker identifies the address for the marker and includes a thumbnail view of the media item associated with that marker. If the user were to select the View Marker link in this balloon the exemplary GUI of would be presented to the user. This GUI is similar in nature to the GUI of . Through the GUI of the user can view all of the media items associated with the geographic location corresponding to the marker. By selecting the All Media tab in all such media items will be displayed in the lower portion of the GUI. Alternatively separate tabs can be provided for each year that has a media item corresponding to the marker s geographic location. This if the user wants to view a media item associated with the year 1979 for the marker the user can select the 1979 tab and so on for the other displayed years. This feature permits a user to scroll through time to view events corresponding to a particular location. Furthermore if the user wants to filter the listed media items based on the people assigned to individual ones of the media items the user can use the people filter shown on the left side of . The people filter can include a drop down menu populated with a list of all people who are assigned to any of the media items associated with the subject marker. In response to selection of a person from this list the system can display only those media items associated with the subject person and the subject marker.

In response to administrator selection of the Categories Subject Topic link the administrator can initiate the process of adding or editing various data classifications such as the subjects and topic fields that data in the database is associated with. illustrate exemplary GUIs for editing subject classifications. illustrate exemplary GUIs for editing topic classifications.

In response to administrator selection of the Categories Marker Sub Type link the administrator can initiate the process of adding or editing various data classifications such as the type and subtype fields that data in the database is associated with. illustrate exemplary GUIs that list existing subjects and topics in the database. illustrate exemplary GUIs for adding marker types to the database. illustrate exemplary GUIs for adding marker subtypes to the database. illustrates an exemplary GUI for editing marker subtypes in the database.

In response to administrator selection of the Edit Relationship Types link the administrator can initiate the process of adding or editing various relationship types that data in the database is associated with. illustrates an exemplary GUIs for editing a relationship type.

In response to administrator selection of the Edit Marker Per User link the administrator can initiate the process of editing the markers associated with a particular user. illustrates an exemplary GUI for editing markers on a per user basis. The administrator can select the particular user from a drop down menu to cause that user s markers to be listed. From there the administrator can make edits to that user s markers as desired.

In response to administrator selection of the Edit Media Per User link the administrator can initiate the process of editing the media items associated with a particular user. illustrate exemplary GUIs for editing media items on a per user basis. The administrator can select the particular user from a drop down menu see to cause that user s media items to be listed see . From there the administrator can make edits to that user s media items as desired. As can be seen in the administrator has an option to select the Set All Media to Private to automatically change the privacy setting to private for all of the selected user s media items.

In response to administrator selection of the Announcements link the administrator can initiate the process of sending a system wide announcement. illustrate exemplary GUIs for initiating system announcements. After an announcement has been made when a user logs in to the website see a GUI can be displayed that notifies the user of the announcement see .

In response to administrator selection of the Advanced Search Export link an administrator can access functionality such as that described below in connection with .

Thus the efficient and flexible website and database design discussed above can be leveraged to provide a wide array of useful functions. Examples of some of these functions follow.

The website can allow a User to go to a location in the past where his ancestors lived and where other users have recorded life events in media of the same person of interest e.g. via a Published Gedcom record . These other users who may be relatives or friends of the person of interest may have contributed data to the database that was previously unknown to the User. For example the User may have never lived or visited the ancestral location but other users who currently live in the location may have access to historical information in the area and about past residents both public and private documents and media and they may have submitted this information to the database.

Users can also use the mapping features of the website to go to their old neighborhood or childhood home s and drill down into other user contributed public media on specific residences. Via a marker data structure e.g. a marker corresponding to a residence known to the User the User can search the database for a list of all media associated with that residence s location in a dropdown list see and if desired further search for all media associated with people associated with that location where such people may be mutual friends family acquaintances. Then the user can browse the public media trail of this long lost friend.

Regardless of whether the people filtering option is selected the user has the option of selecting a listed media data structure from either the or GUIs step to access the database to retrieve the selected media data structure step and cause that retrieved media data structure to be displayed to the user step see . Once again if the displayed media data structure is a photograph the user may recognize one or more people in the photograph and tag them as appropriate to identify them see . Should any people in the photograph already be identified a table identifying the people assigned to the photograph can be listed below as shown in .

To further enhance the reach of the website a practitioner may choose to include a View All Media link or the like in associated with an identified assigned person that is user selectable to further access all media data structures associated with that assigned person regardless of location. In response to selection of such a link the system would access the database to determine all media data structures associated with the person of interest regardless of location. These determined media data structures can then be presented to the user in a GUI. Such a feature would provide users with yet more options for running down interesting leads for finding content of interest.

The User can find another user s who currently or previously resided in a location of mutual interest USA State or County by municode filter s as exemplified in the screenshot. This allows the User to find media posted by other user s in or from a location of interest e.g. Richland County Ill. that represent shared life events that have long been forgotten as a recorded public event.

The website can be used to network the life events of one s ancestors. As an example one can search the database to find the people who share the most associations with a person of interest such as an ancestor. If some referenced people are still alive the User may be able to connect with them possibly through the user who added the media to the website to find out more about one s ancestor from the living memories stories of such people and their saved photographs. Such discovery may lead to more treasured content being archived in the database.

In response to receiving selection of this option step the website accesses the database to determine the people that share associations with the person of interest step . As indicated this determination can be performed by searching for people data structures in the database that share associations with the people data structure for the person of interest whether directly or indirectly through shared associations with media data structures . If no such people are found then the user can be so notified step . Otherwise at step the website lists the determined people. This list can be presented in any of a number of ways. For example the list can sort the determined people such that the people with the most common associations with the person of interest are placed higher on the list. The website may also employ thresholds to govern which people appear on the list e.g. only people who share at least 2 associations with the person of interest should be listed .

At step the website receives a selection corresponding to a person on the list and at step the website accesses the database to identify the data structures associated with the selected person. At step the website informs the user of the identified data structures together with an identification of the users who created those data structures.

Should the user select a user creator for one of the identified data structures step the website can notify the selected user creator of the User s interest and provide the selected user creator with contact information for the User step . This may permit the User to learn more about the person of interest.

Should the user select one of the identified data structures step the website can retrieve the selected data structure from the database step and display the retrieved data structure via a GUI step .

The website can be configured to permit users join together in a virtual meeting to review and discuss selected media online. illustrates an exemplary process flow for this feature. At step the website receives a request from a User to open a blog or chat on a subject relating to a data structure in the database. At step the website invites others to join this blog chat. The invitee list can be defined by the User. However the website can also be configured to automatically generate an invitee list based on which users have a connection in the database with respect to the data structure that is the subject of the blog chat. Then at step the website administers the blog chat on the relevant subject. illustrates an exemplary GUI that could be accessed by users during such blogs chats.

A process flow such as the one shown in can be employed to define the selected media for online discussion optionally including where selected media can be searched for and exported to other users who wish to participate in the virtual discussion.

The website can be used to create a layer of overlaid boxes with respect to media items such as images and assign people information to these boxes as described above to be exported with the media to the database which can then be used by book publishers scrap bookers and album creators. The exemplary process flow of illustrates this feature. At step the website receives an indication that a User wants to tag a section of a media file e.g. a photograph with information. At step the website provides a GUI with a toolbar that permits such tagging. Then at step the website creates an overlay border on the media file in response to user input. At step the website receives association data that tags the border and thus the media file with information e.g. an identification of a people data structure to be associated with the media file . Then at step the overlay border and the association data are stored in the database in association with the media file.

The website content is expected to be dynamic and changing often over time. Some users may have an interest in periodically generating static snapshots of a group s associated content. The software can be configured to format a groups content as it exists at a user specified point in time for publication in an album a physical or virtual album and such created albums can be published for historians genealogists and networks of groups of family and friends as appropriate. Supplements can always be updated and published. also illustrates an exemplary process flow for this feature. At step the website receives a request to create a static view of a set of data structures in the database. At step the website retrieves the data structure set and then the website exports the retrieved data structure set in a desired format suitable for publication e.g. in a format recognized by known scrapbooking software applications . illustrate exemplary GUIs for carrying these operations out.

The exemplary GUIs of are configured to permit the user to selectively search for and identify various data structures that are to be included in the static data set for publication.

Once the static data set is defined a software program such as a file transfer protocol FTP tool e.g. the open source Filezilla tool can be executed to export the data structures of the static data set to a user defined destination e.g. a folder on the user s desktop . illustrates an exemplary GUI for this process. Preferably the media files for the media data structures are exported as a set of individual files to the destination in a format appropriate to the media e.g. jpeg for image media etc. while the text data within the various data structures are exported in a file format such as a spreadsheet file format e.g. Microsoft Excel . depicts an exemplary destination folder after the files of the static data set have been exported.

An exemplary spreadsheet file as read through a spreadsheet program is depicted in . Rows in the spreadsheet can be configured to correspond to different exported media files or markers. A file name or number assigned by the export program to each media file can be identified in appropriate rows. Furthermore desired text information associated with a media item can be included in the spreadsheet rows to provide context information for media files e.g. caption date for any resultant albums .

A desktop publisher application can then be executed to process the spreadsheet file and other files in the destination folder to generate a publication proof such as the example shown in .

The website can be configured to advertise directly to those users who are residents or prior residents of a location e.g. municode recorded in a user profile at registration. This permits an advertiser to conduct an advertising campaign roughly along the lines of Hey you know me retailer you used to live here and I now have a web site to serve you just like when you lived here . This allows targeted advertising by local merchants to specifically advertise to prior residents of the local community via the user profiles. described below illustrates an exemplary process flow that can be used to implement such an advertising strategy.

Advertisers can also target advertisements to users who frequent a specific location e.g. municode via the website. Such advertisements can not only be advertisements for products but also advertisements for events such as high school reunions founder s day celebrations etc.

Then at step the system searches for target users registered with the website who have a connection to a particular location of interest. For example this connection can be based on the current or any previous addresses known for the target user via the target user s account. As another example it can be a location that the target user s viewing history indicates the user has a relation to. If such a target user is currently visiting the website step the website can access the database to retrieve the advertisement associated with that location of interest step and display the retrieved advertisement on a GUI page presented to the target user step .

Genealogy markers can be location e.g. municode specific and allow the website to electronically link with centralized repositories of content particularly genealogical content such as church registries cemeteries etc. if maintained by the institution online . Specified Published Gedcoms can be traced back to the last known or oldest location and event in the Gedcom record and compared to these repositories linked to the website. In this way a user may be able to uncover new leads for gaining additional information about further extending a family tree of filling in gaps within a family tree . For example a family tree may trace back to its oldest member who was born in 1850 in Springfield USA. Someone in Springfield USA may operate a repository of information that would be useful to genealogical researches e.g. a person who manages a cemetery church etc. If this repository is tied to a website the person can create a marker data structure associated with Springfield USA that is also associated with a Uniform Resource Locator URL for the repository website. By configuring the website to permit users to easily discovery such a repository website URL when investigating a family tree users may be able to uncover additional information about their ancestors.

It may also be the case that the keeper of records for the repository chooses to create media data structures or people data structures for some or all of that keeper s records. The keeper can associate these media data structures or people data structures with the genealogy related marker data structure for that location. In such a circumstance upon discovering the genealogy related marker data structure the user can search through associated data structures to conduct additional research.

As examples of other types of tracing operations that can be performed in this manner the website could also be configured to search for any genealogy related marker data structures associated with any location among the locations of all members of a family tree. The website could also be configured to search for any genealogy related marker data structures associated with a location corresponding to the location of a genealogical data structure that has incomplete information.

Individuals who are self appointed or by default the unofficial repository of books registries lists etc of small churches non active cemeteries etc. i.e. the church historian who have nowhere to post their information can do so via the website at the location of the cemetery or church on a Genealogy Marker as explained above and link it to a web site or media file which may take the form of just an MS Office spreadsheet DB or word document . This permits such an individual to share community history with others via the website.

Similar to the above the website can also be a preservation vehicle for potentially lost information as people pass away whereby their heirs will have an outlet to archive information and media that may otherwise be thrown away or otherwise lost. Through the power of the website other users may be able to contribute information to such media for example by identifying people in photographs who the heirs are unaware of but could be interested in knowing.

Media posting date for content uploaded to the website can be compared to Gedcom date information thus providing a reasonability test of the right person right time right place for media postings portraits in My People and assignments of Mypeople to media.

The website may also be used as a vehicle through which a User can identify an existing genealogical data structure that should be associated with another genealogical data structure because of the presence of shared ancestors. Similarly other users can contribute media or other information to the database in association with members of the User s family. This powerful feature permits users to expand their knowledge of their family histories. However to provide control over such a process the website can employ master user controls where consent of the master user is needed to create database associations with a data structure under the control of the master user.

Another useful feature that an exemplary embodiment can implement is a feature whereby the website tracks a person or family of interest over time with respect to their location associations. This can be an informative way of placing the person or family s history in context. For example it may be interesting for a user to see a family s migration patterns over time. This location tracking can be presented to the use via a map interface where marker icons are placed on a map at positions corresponding to associated locations of a person or family over time.

Moreover when the tracking is performed with respect to a family of interest the marker icons can be coordinated with respect to different members of Family X. For example the location marker icons for Member A of Family X can have a first shape or first color while the location marker icons for Member B of Family X can have a second shape or second color . A legend and be displayed on the GUI that translates the different marker icons to family members. illustrate an exemplary cumulative time elapse map display for a family of Person A and Person B.

Further still this location tracking people could be applied to any plurality of people in the database. In this way a user can track two or more people to see if their paths ever crossed. The resultant GUI display would be similar to the exemplary displays of . For example this display would show that Person A and Person B may have crossed paths in 1975 around Chicago and again in 1985 around Texas.

Animation controls can be provided on the GUI display to provide users with control over how the display progresses. Furthermore as should be understood the displayed marker icons are preferably selectable by the user to access any media or other data structures associated therewith for the subject person s .

It should be further understood that such tracking display features can be applied to not only people and families but also to other data structures such as marker data structures having user specified characteristics and media data structures having user specified characteristics. For example a tracking display of data structures having an association with a user specified subject or topic could be performed using the general process flow of . Further still comparative tracking displays such as the one shown by could be employed with these other data structures. For example one could use the general process flow of to generate a tracking display that shows marker data structures associated with Boy Scout Camps versus Girl Scout Camps over a user specified time period with further filtering possible to further restrict the display only specified subclassifications of those classifications e.g. particular awards ceremonies within the Boy and Girl Scout organizations.

Another feature that a preferred embodiment can implement is a feature where the user computers that access the website can be smart phone devices or the like. As is well known many smart phones now have powerful data processing Internet connectivity and media generation e.g. photos videos capabilities. Examples of smart phones include devices such as the Apple iPhone various Blackberry devices the Google Droid etc. Some smart phones also have the ability to take GPS associated photographs. That is the smart phone will associate the GPS position of the phone at a given time with a photograph produced by the phone at that time. This capability makes smart phones a potential source for media data structures to be stored in the database .

To aid this process application software often referred to in the shorthand as an app can be loaded into the smartphone where this application software can be executed to guide a user through the process of uploading data to the database . illustrates an exemplary smart phone display screen preferably a touch screen that includes a user selectable application for uploading content to the database . In response to user selection of the application the application can execute to display a welcome screen such as that shown in . To begin the process of uploading geo indexed content the user can select the Begin button . As a first step in this process the user identifies the content to be uploaded to the database. This step can be performed in any of a number of ways. For example the user could be given a menu option of initiating the phone s camera functions to take a new photograph or video. Also or alternatively the phone can provide a scrollable list of photographs already stored in the phone as shown in . In response to user selection of a listed photograph the phone display may present a GUI form similar in nature to the GUI shown in . Through this GUI form the user can tag the photograph with additional information for association with the photograph in the database. In response to user selection of the Submit button the phone can upload a media data structure corresponding to the photograph together with its location and other data associations to database for storage therein.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of invention which is to be given the full breadth of the claims appended and any and all equivalents thereof. It should further be understood that the embodiments disclosed herein include any and all combinations of features as disclosed herein and or described in any of the dependent claims.

