---

title: Personalized search widgets for customized user interface
abstract: A set of personalized search widgets for providing a customized user interface are provided. Among the personalized search widgets include a related searches menu to depict related search terms according to popularity and type. A query builder for explicitly including or excluding particular terms from the query may be provided. The search widgets may further include a history of past searches received from a user, a selection of categories to be searched, and one or more category suggestions. Some widgets associated with sellers allow a user to filter results according to a trusted seller status of the seller or the identity of the seller, and provide to the user a tag cloud including feedback about the seller. The results of a search may be presented in a spreadsheet style format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788371&OS=08788371&RS=08788371
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08788371
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101013
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 348 598 filed May 26 2010 and entitled Personalized Search Widgets for Customized User Interface which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of data management and in one specific example to personalized search widgets.

In online publication systems a user may search for listings based for example on one or more keywords. The search system may then provide search results in a ranked list.

Example methods and systems to provide personalized search widgets are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Additionally although various example embodiments discussed below focus on a network based publication environment the embodiments are given merely for clarity in disclosure. Thus any type of electronic publication electronic commerce or electronic business system and method including various system architectures may employ various embodiments of the system and method described herein and be considered as being within a scope of example embodiments. Each of a variety of example embodiments is discussed in detail below.

In an online publication system the personalized search widgets comprise a collection of customizable search widgets from which a user can select to have displayed on a search user interface. The widgets can be used by the user to select terms that the user believes are most pertinent or relevant to his or her search. The search may be directed to information published on the Internet or performed in an online marketplace or a social network.

The personalized search widgets may be implemented using one or more application programming interfaces APIs that request information from the online publication system to present a set of search results to the user. At least because multiple APIs are used to present the search results the search results may be presented using a spreadsheet format. In the spreadsheet format the user is able to dictate which columns are shown and how the columns are sorted. The columns available for display to the user correspond to a characteristic of the listing such as image item title price number of bids time remaining in an auction or fixed price sale seller feedback score percent positive feedback shipping costs etc. Via a user interface the user is able to select a subset of those columns to display in a second user interface including one or more search results that are provided to the user. Additionally the user may be able to reorder or arrange the columns. In some instances the user is allowed to select one or more columns for sorting or re ordering the search results.

The personalized search widgets may additionally or alternatively provide additional assistance to a user in narrowing or refining a search. For example the search widgets may provide related searches that are color coded according to whether the related search is a refinement of the submitted search e.g. directed to a subset of the provided search results or whether the related search is alternative to the submitted search in some way e.g. the search may be for similar products accessories for a searched product different brands or the like . The related searches may be presented in varying font sizes based for example on the relative popularity of the related searches.

The personalized search widgets may additionally include features that allow the user to restrict the results shown based on category seller price or the like. include a description of the above features in no particular order each to be discussed in turn. While the descriptions of may vary in the combination of features provided to the user it is to be understood that various combinations of features may be provided in any given embodiment.

Below those options a related search interface includes a selection of related search terms displayed to the user in various font colors and or font sizes. The color of the font may be varied based on whether the particular search term is provided as an alternative search term e.g. ipod shown in lighter gray or a refinement of the search terms submitted by the user e.g. zune mp3 player search term shown in black . Examples of related searches that refine the search phrase zune player may include zune media player zune mp3 player zune and player as shown. Example of related searches that are alternative search terms to the search phrase zune player include Microsoft zune mp3 players ipod and zune 8gb as shown.

In example embodiments the font size for each of these related searches may be varied according to a relative popularity of the searches. The related searches appearing in larger fonts may be more popular than the related searches appearing in smaller fonts. For example the related search term ipod is displayed in a larger font size than the related search term zune media player indicating that the related search term ipod is more popular than the related search term zune media player. 

Also shown in is the spreadsheet format of the search results. The spreadsheet format allows user to show additional columns or to hide a shown column using a View columns link and as further illustrated in . The spreadsheet format generally includes two or more columns. As depicted the columns include sortable columns e.g. price and an unsortable column e.g. item image . The sortable columns are identifiable as such by a sorting option and include Item Title Price Bids i.e. number of bids Time Left i.e. time remaining in an auction or fixed price sale Seller Feedback Fdbk Score and Positive Fdbk as a percent of feedback . In a non marketplace environment the sortable columns may include article title data of publication author and rating.

In the item title the spreadsheet format further provides an additional similar items link in at least a portion of the search results to view similar items. Upon selecting the link a user may be shown a page depicting one or more listings of items for sale that are similar to the item described by the listing shown in the search results.

The spreadsheet format may include one or more options to filter the listings shown to a user. As shown in arrows provided below the price in a particular listing may allow a user to set that item s price as a maximum price or as a minimum price. Upon selecting the price the search results are filtered to include only those listings priced above or below the selected price.

As a pop up window over the spreadsheet format listings a view column menu is shown that allows the user to hide at least a portion of the columns in the spreadsheet. If one or more columns are already hidden the menu may include an option to show the hidden column s . The selection of columns may appear automatically or in response to a confirmation received from a user of a particular selection.

As described in connection with a tag cloud of feedback about the seller is also shown as a snapshot of text appearing in the seller feedback. In one embodiment the tag cloud is displayed as a pop up window or menu over the spreadsheet format listing.

It should be noted that while a plurality of pop up windows or menus are shown in not all menus may be displayed at once. For example the history of past user searches may be displayed when the history button is selected but the view column menu and the tag cloud may not be displayed.

Further it is noted that the components of the sample search results pages and e.g. related searches category filter history of user searches query builder etc. may be laid out in different ways or resized according to a user preference. In some instances the ability of the user to direct the lay out and size of the components is limited by the publication system . Similarly the user may dictate the size or position of the columns in the spreadsheet format.

An Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication applications and payment applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more databases servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The publication applications may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the publication and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules engines components or mechanisms. A module engine logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as is known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or array to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by for example cost time energy usage and package size considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Modules can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. In one embodiment the machine readable medium is a non transitory machine readable storage medium.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived there from such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present invention as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Thus a method and system to provide personalized search widgets for a customized user interface have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

