---

title: System and method for providing web-based management solutions
abstract: A centralized web-based system and method for managing appointments having a user interface that interacts with one or more users to display one or more items based on user input, a management module connected to the user interface and configured to receive data related to scheduling an appointment, determine one or more possible appointments based on the data, present the one or more possible appointments, receive a user selection from the one or more possible appointments, and schedule the appointment based on the user selection, and one or more databases configured to store appointment information, wherein the one or more databases are connected to the management module and wherein the data comprises a date and time slot and at least one of a facility, a service, and a servicer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209206&OS=08209206&RS=08209206
owner: Gramercyone Technology Corp.
number: 08209206
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100414
---
This application is a continuation CON application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 250 892 filed Oct. 14 2008 entitled System and Method for Providing Web Based Management Solutions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

On line shopping has become extremely popular with consumers. It provides a convenient way for people to purchase a variety of products and services without leaving the home or office. When offering items or services for sale a vendor may use a website to present its products or services to customers browsing that website. However such a business model may insist that a customer already know the vendor s website or be able to find the website via a search engine. In addition in order to secure an order for a particular service e.g. spa treatment and other related service for example a vendor may use a singular stand alone reservation system that is only available on its website. Not only does this make it difficult to attract new customers but such a technique may not adequately rate or compare these products services with other comparable products services which may limit customer confidence. Furthermore a stand alone reservation system that is not linked with or safeguarded by other systems or methods may be prone to error and mismanagement. As a result current on line systems and methods may lack comprehensive and effective web based management solutions particularly advantageous for booking appointments attracting new customers gaining customer confidence increasing sales profits and improving customer retention.

Exemplary embodiments may provide a system and method for providing web based management solutions. That is exemplary embodiments may among other things expand and optimize business and marketing by comprehensively and effectively providing web based management solutions e.g. booking reservations customer employee inventory management payments marketing etc. for any organization that provide time dependent services.

Spas and spa related services are becoming increasingly popular. In fact there may be a variety of different spas and salons tailored to the preferences of each customer. For example these may include resort hotel spas destination spas casino spas club spas cruise ship spas mineral springs spas medical dental spas connoisseur spas day spas beauty salons and spa lifestyle real estate. Whatever the choice a first time spa goer or a seasoned spa goer may be able to enjoy a short or long escape from the busyness of life and enhance overall well being through professional services that encourage the renewal of mind body and spirit.

However as discussed above current systems may fail to provide comprehensive and effective web based management solutions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may provide a management solution that utilizes a centralized system for booking appointments managing employees customers integrating point of sale services attracting new customers gaining customer confidence and improving customer retention. Embodiments of the present disclosure may also provide a business solution that maximizes sales profits by using an integrated fee transaction process between banks and merchant card processors.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It should be appreciated that the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. It should be appreciated that the following detailed descriptions are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive.

It should be appreciated that the exemplary systems and methods are discussed in terms of spas and or spa related products services. It should also be appreciated that as used herein a spa or spa related may refer to any type of health and beauty services. For example these may include products services related to health medicine skin hair nail cosmetics and other similar products services. In addition these may include salon or salon related products services. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

The user interface device may include a computer a laptop notebook a mobile phone a personal data assistant PDA or other similar device such as a server or server like system a module a smart phone a wireline phone a satellite phone etc. Although a user interface device may typically be directed to those having computing or communication capability it should be appreciated that other various systems devices may also be used. These may include MP3 players video players personal media players personal video recorders PVR watches gaming consoles devices navigation devices televisions printers and or other devices capable of receiving and or transmitting signals. It should be appreciated that the communications device system may be mobile handheld or stationary. It should also be appreciated that the communications device system may be used independently or may be used as an integrated component in another device and or system. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

The user interface device may connect to the network in a variety of ways such as via wired or wireless broadband connection. In one embodiment wired broadband connection may include long range optical data communications local area network based protocols wide area networks and or other similar applications. In another embodiment wireless broadband connection may include long range wireless radio local area wireless network such as 802.11 based protocols wireless wide area network such as WiMax and or other similar applications. For example communication between the various components of system may be achieved via transmission of electric electromagnetic optical and or wireless signals and or packets that carry digital data streams using a standard telecommunications protocol and or a standard networking protocol. These may include modem dial up Session Initiation Protocol SIP Voice Over IP VOIP protocols Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols. Other protocols and or systems that are suitable for transmitting and or receiving data via packets signals may also be provided. For example cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection may also be used. Communication between the network providers and or subscribers may also use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g etc. or via protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

The network may be any network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a service provider network the Internet World Wide Web or other similar network or a combination thereof. It should be appreciated that the network may use electric electromagnetic and or optical signals that carry digital data streams.

The Management Solution System may include a network based user interface such as a web based Graphic User Interface GUI from which a user interface device may connect via the network . The web based GUI may be communicatively coupled to a Management Solution Module . The Management Solution Module may also be communicatively coupled to one or more databases e.g. DB DB and DBN where N may represent any number . While shown as separate databases it should be appreciated that the contents of these databases as depicted in may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of databases and may be stored on one or more data storage systems. Other data and or information may also be stored and or obtained from these databases. Other variations and or components may also be provided.

It should be appreciated that the architecture of system may have various embodiments. For example not all system components may be within the Management Solution System . Instead one or more components servers devices and or databases of the system may be local or remote to the Management Solution System . It should also be appreciated that the Management Solution System may be duplicated and or maintained at various locations. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

The Management Solution Module may be the central processing logic of the Management Solution System . The Management Solution Module may include one or more processors or processing logic e.g. modules to manage various business functions and features such as processing orders reserving appointments scheduling employee customer schedules coordinating billing and receiving payments managing payroll etc. For example a Management Solution Module may display these features to a partner and or customer at a user interface device.

While one configuration is shown in it should be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that other configurations of these various modules may also be possible. For example in one embodiment for ubiquitous accessibility the Management Solution System may be implemented as a web based module by utilizing a 3 tier architecture. The first tier may represent a user interface tier that includes for example the web based GUI . The second tier may include the business logic tier that includes for example the Management Solution Module . The third tier may represent a database tier that includes for example DB DB and DBN or other similar database. Other various configurations and designs may also be realized. In another embodiment the Management Solution Module of the Management Solutions System may be comprised of several modules or may be coupled to one or more additional modules each configured to perform a feature function of the system . For example the Management Solution Module may be coupled to a Reporting Module to generate custom reports an Employee Management Module to manage employees e.g. employee information specialties billing rates schedules payroll etc. a Facilities Management Module to manage availability of rooms or spa facilities etc. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

In one embodiment for example a partner e.g. a spa may access the Management Solution System via a user interface device to input various information. This information may be related to the partner e.g. the spa history of the spa location hours services treatments offered deals products room availability etc. employee technician information e.g. personal information of an massage therapist employed by the partner other employee information such weekly monthly schedule specialties and or services etc. and other related information. Having all this information centralized the Management Solution System may provide a comprehensive system tailored and customized to each participating partner and its needs e.g. booking reservations etc. . Such a system may eliminate or reduce a need to synchronize various calendar information on various systems and therefore provide a secure and efficient way to manage appointments for participating partners. The Management Solution System may include additional features functions as well. These may include employee management customer management facilities management product bundling specials promotions creation point of sale services etc.

In one example a customer user e.g. a spa goer may access the Management Solution System via a user interface device to view various Day Spas in his or her neighborhood ratings of these spas services prices availability etc. The customer may interact with the Management Solution Module via the web based GUI to select and build a personal custom spa package from one or more partners.

For example a catalog of products services and or popular products services may be displayed by the Management Solution System e.g. via an item presentation module in which one or more user criteria may be entered linked and received. depicts an illustrative interface for providing web based booking management solutions according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example an on line booking system site may be provided. The on line booking system site may include a listing menu of links a catalog of items e.g. products and or services such as Day Spas Getaway Spas etc. and one or more advertisements e.g. AD AD AD etc. . The listing menu of links may include various links to additional data. For example link may include links to find various spas to see featured spas to see the most recent deals to browse available gift options to learn more info to learn about spas to subscribe to one or more newsletters and or other various links. The Day Spas and Getaway Spas may provide various products and or services offered by the Management Solution System from various partners. One or more advertisements may be presented to target customers in order to generate more business and or profits. Other various configurations embodiments may also be provided.

It should be appreciated that for each of the items presented in the on line booking system site a user may enter criteria for one or more items by clicking a radio button selecting a link and or filling one or more fields for a search. It should also be appreciated that user criteria may not necessarily be inputted. For example in one embodiment user criteria may be information automatically generated. For instance when a customer logs into a personalized account his or her profile may be automatically pulled and the one or more items received may be based on this profile. These may include his or her transaction history preferences purchases browsing habits survey results etc. It should be appreciated that the profile information may also be used to present recommendations specials promotions deals and or discounts tailored to the customer. In another embodiment user criteria may be based on one or more surveys. For example a user may have previously submitted responses to one or more surveys and the system may receive items based on these responses. In yet another embodiment user criteria may be information data received from a variety of other sources such as targeted emailers previous merchant affiliations recommendations of people who know the user etc. Thus user criteria may be based on user input and or other sources. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

When one or more items are identified e.g. either by user input or other way the user may also scroll up and down each category to find the items desired to be included in the site . In one embodiment for example a user may use a search feature to specify and or narrow a search for a particular product and or service. For example a user may enter a partner name e.g. name of spa location e.g. zip code address county country etc. season price range and or product service e.g. spa treatment etc. . In another embodiment a detailed description of each item may also be provided via hyperlink mouseover or other similar feature. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

Here the Management Solution System may then display the one or more items e.g. products and or services for user selection. depicts an illustrative interface for ordering a package according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example the screenshot may provide an on line booking system site including a list of one or more items based on user criteria and or other data. For instance a user may have entered the following criteria pedicure massage and 20006 to yield the list of one or more spas . Similar to the user may scroll up and down to find a desired product and or service. Here the user may see several spas that fit his or her search criteria Urban Day Spa Spa in DC Super Fun Day Spa etc. Each item listed may have a name of the partner a rating e.g. star or other similar mark brief description and or one or more links for more information. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

The Management Solution System may receive one or more user selections to form a spa sales package. It should be appreciated that the customer may directly or indirectly build a spa package. For example in one embodiment the Management Solution Module may present information e.g. telephone number email website etc. of one or more partners so that a customer may contact a desired partner and build a spa package with that information. In this example an employee of the partner may receive the order and enter information into the Management Solution System may view and select from a various employees timeslots treatments services products etc. and order the package for the customer.

In another embodiment the customer may directly form and order a package from the on line booking system . For example referring back to the Spa in DC may be highlighted and may be selected by the user to begin the on line process to order one or more products and or services from the partner through the Management Solution System . For instance the customer may click on Make reservations at the on line booking system . Once the customer selects this option a reservation window for Spa in DC may be presented to the customer.

Once the customer enters these user selections availability based on these selections may be processed and or additional information may be requested. For example depicts an illustrative interface for booking a reservation according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. Here the user selections provided by the customer have been processed and the on line booking system may provide a reservations window with additional user selections such as time and specialist technician selections. In this example the customer may select 1 30 PM from a list of available times. In addition the customer may select Joe A. Smith for the Doctor s Orders massage and Jane Doe for the facial. It should be appreciated that all the available time slots and or specialists technicians may be based on previously entered information. It should be appreciated that other variations may also be provided. For example the customer may have started by selecting the specialist technician room facilities at the spa available date time slots etc. For example Joe A. Smith may be a top rated masseur for Spa in DC. His profile gender schedule specialties and other information e.g. freelancer check credit cash payment and other similar data may be stored in the database so that a customer looking for these qualifications may be able to locate Joe A. Smith if available . Other various embodiments may also be realized.

Once these additional user selections are entered the one or more reservations may be processed by the Management Solutions System . It should be appreciated that point of sale services may also be provided. In addition to booking appointments the centralized Management Solution System may provide point of sale services where various products items may also be purchased. Similar to the way reservations are booked a customer may directly access the on line system to identify one or more items products e.g. lotions gift certificates massage stones etc. to include in his her spa sales package or may have an employee e.g. receptionist sales clerk etc. of a participating partner take the order for the customer through the on line system. For example depicts an illustrative backend interface providing integrated point of sale services according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example a spa cashier e.g. employee of the spa taking this order from the customer may also offer various products for sale to the customer from an appointments window on the backend interface . Here the spa cashier may view the current customer order and choose from a list of spa offered products directly from the appointments window at the backend interface of the on line booking system as depicted in . It should be appreciated that a catalog of products services and or popular products services may be displayed. For example as depicted in the customer may choose from a variety of products such as Skin Glo Hair Snare Body Refresh etc. Here the quantity may be specified and additional product search may be provided as well. Although depicted from a backend interface perspective it should be appreciated that point of sale services may also be provided via the on line booking system with which the customer may interact.

Once the spa package is formed the customer may begin to process payment for the package. depicts an illustrative interface for collecting billing payment information according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example a customer may be presented a billing information window at the on line booking system . Here the billing information window may allow the customer to enter his her billing information such as name address telephone number email address credit card information etc. It should be appreciated that in the event the customer has previously setup a customer profile this information may be automatically filled entered for the customer.

Similar to in the event that the customer is finalizing his her order through an employee e.g. sales clerk or cashier of the partner spa the spa cashier may use the on line system from a backend side to review and process the customer s order package. For example depicts an illustrative backend interface for reviewing orders according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example the order package formed by the customer e.g. Spa Goer may have a total price of 315.00. Furthermore in addition payment by credit card or gift certificate the customer may also pay by cash check and or post to room tab account e.g. if the spa is associated to a hotel or other account carrier . In the event payment is made by credit card or other card the cashier may swipe scan read the customer s credit card or enter the card manually. It should be appreciated that one or more hardware devices for swiping scanning reading such cards may be connected the user interface device to assist in performing these features functions. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

It should also be appreciated that coupons promotional discounts may also be submitted here. Gift certificates may be provided e.g. sold by and for use at the Management Solutions System . For example in one embodiment customers may purchase gift certificates useable for any of the participating partners associated with the system . The Management Solution Module may coordinate with various partners so that the gift certificates may be universally applied to one or more orders associated with a participating partner. Such a feature may allow customers the option of using their gift certificates not only at one partner but from various partners at their choosing. This may also provide additional business opportunities and or benefits. It should be appreciated that gift certificates issued by the system may be customized and may be redeemable similar to cash. Other various embodiments may also be realized. This and other additional methods of payment may provide comprehensive service to customers an effective way to receive payment.

Once payment is accepted an instant notification may be provided by the Management Solution System . For example depicts an illustrative interface for reviewing an order according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example the on line booking system may display an order review window which may include the appointment location s caregiver s date s time s price s calculated discounts if any associated terms and condition if any sales tax and or other similar information. The customer may review his or her options and decide for example whether to finalize the order e.g. by selecting Finalize Order of Package add change decline restart and or to perform other actions. In another embodiment the customer may make additions and or changes to the custom bundle. It should be appreciated that various display options and order features may also be provided.

Once the order is finalized the customer may receive a notification confirming the order and the reservations as well as a paper receipt in some cases. depicts an illustrative interface of an order confirmation according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the order confirmation the Management Solution System may also communicate with the partner and or customer regarding a scheduled appointment and or one or more orders. These may include various customizable notification alerts and or messages e.g. emails text messages voicemails RSS and or other notification protocols . Changes cancellations and other requests may also be processed by the Management Solution System in a real time or near real time manner. As a result scheduling and reservations may be performed efficiently and accurately. Although the booking systems and methods may be operated mostly electronically and or automatically it should be appreciated that administrative oversight may be implemented to reduce error and optimize performance.

It should be appreciated that various options may be provided to view the reservations appointments. For example a search scroll feature may be implemented. Furthermore it should be appreciated that in this backend interface changing one or more reservations appointments may be achieved by drag and drop capabilities which may also be enabled by the Management Solutions System . Not only does this provide an easy way to edit change reservations appointments but it also allows various users e.g. partner manager partner employee customer etc. ability to customize their orders and or reservations from one system. Accordingly as discussed above since the Management Solutions System may be centralized common reservation errors such as double booking may be greatly reduced if not entirely eliminated. Other various appointment editing capabilities may also be provided.

It should be appreciated that the backend interface of the Management Solutions System may also allow reservation appointment viewing in other formats. For example depicts an illustrative backend interface for managing facilities according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. Similar to the backend interface of may present a calendar of reservations appointments in one or more various calendar formats. However unlike the calendar may present appointments by viewing one or more facilities of the spa. For instance the Spa Manager may view the availability of various rooms facilities by searching and or scrolling through the various rooms facilities. Here as depicted the calendar may present the reservations appointments for the guests of Spa Goer as booked time slots in Room A and Room B. In this view other rooms facilities may also be presented such as Miguel s Room Serenity Room etc.

It should be appreciated that various options may be provided to view the reservations appointments. For example a search scroll feature may be implemented. Furthermore it should be appreciated that in this backend interface changing one or more reservations appointments may be achieved by drag and drop capabilities which are also enabled by the Management Solutions System .

It should be appreciated that this may be an important feature because certain rooms facilities may be equipped for certain specialties treatments. For example a customer may purchase an aromatherapy service. Because aromatherapy uses volatile liquid plant materials known as essential oils EOs and other aromatic compounds from plants for the purpose of affecting a person s mood or health a specialized room may be requested to store these materials and or perform such a service. In another example a customer may purchase a Fijian sport massage which uses feet rather than hands to perform the massage. Therefore a Fijian sport massage technician or other qualified employee may use a special room to perform this service. Such a room may be equipped with balancing beams on the walls and or ceiling to allow the technician to perform the massage with proper weight and or balance. It should be appreciated that the databases of the Management Solution System may store such room information e.g. types of service it may be used for availability etc. in order to provide better management of rooms and overall customer service.

With regard to information associated with scheduling e.g. partner availability facilities employees etc. it should be appreciated that the Management Solution Module may coordinate with the databases to determine available dates ranges of dates times and or ranges of time. It should also be appreciated that special rules treatments may be applied to days in which a partner may be close or during holidays. For example a first employee for a partner may have a message appointment scheduled in Room 1 at 1 00 PM that lasts for an hour until 2 00 PM. To consider adequate clean up time etc. the first employee may be scheduled as being out of service until 2 15 PM since it may take 10 15 minutes to turn over Room 1 which may be a larger room than Room 2 which may only take 5 10 minutes. Therefore the system may schedule an second employee who wanted to use Room 1 at 2 00 PM would not be allowed because the system may recognize that the first employee may be turning the room over at that time. Accordingly the Management Solution System may have the processing logic to coordinate with the various components of the system e.g. the databases to ensure smooth and accurate calendar control and booking. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

It should be appreciated that additional employee management features may be provided. For example in one embodiment a payroll system and method may be fully integrated with the system. This may allow participating partners to manage employees in a more comprehensive and effective way using one system rather than several systems which may be prone to error etc. In another embodiment a tiered billing system may be implemented so that various billing rates fees for employees specialists and or technicians may be managed. For example employee may categorized in a variety of types such as be full time part time scheduled freelancer owner student etc. Accordingly each employee may have different billing rates fees associated. Thus a system and method to incorporate these aspects of management may also be important. In yet another embodiment employee popularity may also be considered. For example a massage therapist may be known in a particular region for her stone massages. Because of her popularity she may draw in more business for the spa as a whole. In one sense a system that is able to measure this may be extremely beneficial to the spa so that she may be properly compensated in addition to creating a framework with which the spa may build expand business. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

Thus by centralizing employee information into one system e.g. stored in the databases may allows at least these management functions features which may provide a business model that is not only flexibility e.g. accessible from various worksites but also reduce errors e.g. from synchronizing two or more systems having similar information and increase efficiency.

It should also be appreciated that all or a limited amount of the information may be presented to the customer user depending on the level of access. Such a feature may be customized by the partner at the Management Solution System . For example depict an illustrative backend interface of various access levels according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. depicts an illustrative backend interface for a Spa Manager access level according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example an edit user window may be presented. Here the Spa Manager may be able to view some or all of the information of a user including her contact information email address type of user e.g. spa user role e.g. administrative reporting reservationist technician and or other username password etc. It should be appreciated that the Spa Manager may be able to edit the information corresponding to each user in this edit user window as desired. For example Spa Goer may be assigned administrative privileges. depicts an illustrative backend interface for searching users and or corresponding access levels according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. Here one or more searches for user may be provided. In this case search results may be presented as depicted in the edit customer window . Here various users that match the search criteria may be presented. In addition each users name roles e.g. access level username when account created and or other features e.g. edit delete etc. may also be presented. Other various categories and or edit features may also be provided. It should also be appreciated that depending on the role or access level of the user the user may be limited in his editing capabilities. For example Joe S. has technician privileges which are different than that of Spa Admin who has admin privileges who in turn has different privileges compared to that of Shaka K. who has a reservationist role. It should be appreciated that a participating partner may set one or more various access levels to the booking system depending on its business needs. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

In one embodiment a setup wizard may also be provided to provide these various levels of access. For example initializing the system may be a cumbersome task. However using an integrated setup wizard may help transition from a business that uses several systems e.g. web cashier payroll scheduling etc. into a centralized Management Solutions System . Here the partner may setup several levels of access so that security is not compromised. For example an employee should not be able to tamper with her payroll information. However a manager may be able to override pricing schedules customer information etc. In another embodiment administrator privileges may be provided to setup the various access levels of the system . Other various embodiments may also be provided.

It should also be appreciated that because information stored at the Management Solution System may be highly private a variety of additional security measures may also be utilized. For example the system may utilize various security features such as SSL 128 bit security with Verisign issued certificates etc. Furthermore a redundant n tier architectural structure may be implemented to reduce security breach etc. Other various embodiments may also be realized e.g. where systems may be compliant with one or more car association security guidelines similar to Payment Card Industry PCI or Payment Application Best Practices PABP compliance etc.

In one embodiment the Management Solutions System may automatically generate and or manage specials promotions according to the needs of the partner. For example the Management Solutions System may recognize that Mondays and Tuesdays are particular slow business days. As a result one or more specials promotions for use on Mondays and Tuesdays may be generated to bolster business. In another embodiment it may be recognized that business is slower during a particular season of the year or during a particular time of day. Accordingly the Management Solutions System may also generate and or manage specials promotions to fit these time periods as well.

Although specials and or promotions may be automatically generated and managed it should be appreciated that a partner may also manually specify its needs as well and coordinate with the Management Solutions System to form one or more specials promotions. These products services may be packaged as top picks or featured items to subsequent customers. These specials promotions may also be used to promote customer loyalty as well as attract new customers. Furthermore not only would this optimize service to customers it may also maximize sales and profits as well by maximizing schedules and resources.

Referring back to for example the backend interface may also provide a specials settings window . The specials window may allow a Spa Manager to search specials specials codes and or other specials criteria to view past present and or future specials promotions. The specials window may also allow the Spa Manage the ability to generate a new special or promotion reuse a previous special modify update a special promotion etc. Here each special may have a name e.g. Botox Loyalty Special Family Friends Spring Hair Removal etc. a corresponding code dates times with which these specials may be used applied and a discount measured in at least one of a percentage monetary unit promotion or combination deal. Other various embodiments may also be realized.

It should be appreciated that the features of the Management Solution System may also be integrated into a partner s website to be accessed by customers and others. For example depicts an illustrative interface for a management solution imbedded at a partner website according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example a partner s website may present a link to an on line booking system . depicts an illustrative interface for a management solution imbedded at a partner website according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. In this example the partner website may present an imbedded link to the on line booking system . Similar to a customer or visitor of the partner website may search for one or more spas owned by the partner e.g. entering in the search field. For example the customer may enter the following criteria pedicure massage and 20006 to yield the list of one or more spas in the on line booking system window . Here as described above with respect to the user may see several spas that fit his or her search criteria Urban Day Spa Spa in DC Super Fun Day Spa etc. Each item listed may have a name of the partner a rating e.g. star or other similar mark brief description and or one or more links for more information. Thus this provides another flexible feature for customers to book reservations and or order one or more products from a partner. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

By using a centralized system which may be accessible to partners and or clients over the network appointments may be easily tracked and safeguarded from double booking or other similar errors associated with systems that attempt to synchronize one booking system with another. Nevertheless in the event such features may be important to partners and or customers e.g. initial setup of the system for participating partners the Management Solution System may electronically interact with partner side and or customer side software to identify a scheduled appointment e.g. in calendar programs such as Microsoft Outlook LotusNotes Apple iCal Google Calendar etc. . Other various embodiments may also be realized.

It should be appreciated that in addition to scheduling booking features the system may also provide additional functions. These may include inventory management financial processing and reporting options etc.

For example in one embodiment the system may also manage partner inventory such as various products and or items stored at one or more store locations and or warehouses. In another embodiment the system may provide more in depth financial processing in addition to payroll billing rates etc. These may include managing business debts costs overhead and or managing accounts receivables etc. In yet another embodiment the system may generate customizable reports which may assist participating partners in further developing business e.g. generate repeat business and or attract new clientele . For example this information may include which products services are most popular total appointments within a specified time price lists of various products services profiles of customers and or partner technicians employees etc. Customizable reports may be provided in a variety of formats such as Excel HTML PDF XML and other formats etc.

According to another exemplary embodiment a business solution that maximizes profits by using an integrated fee transaction process between banks and partners may also be provided. For example a merchant account may be understood as a contract under which an acquiring bank extends a line of credit to a merchant who wishes to accept payment card transactions of a particular card association brand. Without such a contract payments by any of the major credit card brands e.g. VISA MasterCard etc. may be not be accepted. In general credit card transactions may be sent electronically to merchant processing bank for authorization capture and or deposit. Although credit card processing varies from industry to industry it should be appreciated that transactions may be achieved by swiping scanning reading a credit card through terminal reader or manually entering the credit card information in to a credit card terminal a computer website or similar component. As discussed above swiping scanning reading a credit card may offer a lower rate as compared to manual entry because of the risks errors involved with manual entry.

The gateway may be a payment gateway which may be an e commerce service that authorizes payments for e commerce and or online retailers. In other words the payment gateway may be similar to physical point of sale POS terminal located in retail stores outlets.

The one or more merchant card processors may be one or more separate companies from the payment gateway. Although some merchant card processors may have their own payment gateways a merchant card processor may generally use a third party payment gateway. Here the gateway may include a virtual terminal that allows a merchant e.g. a partner to securely login and key in credit card numbers or have a shopping cart e.g. from a partner website connect to the gateway via an application program interface API to allow for real time processing from the merchant s website.

It should be appreciated that merchant accounts may charge a variety of fees some periodic others charged on a per item or percentage basis. In one embodiment fees are set by the merchant account provider. In another embodiment fees may be applied on a per item or percentage fee basis which may be passed through the merchant card processor to a collecting bank e.g. a credit card issuing bank according to a schedule of rates called interchange fees. These interchange fees may be set by VISA MasterCard etc. It should be appreciated that interchange fees may vary depending on card type circumstances of the transaction and or other considerations. For example as discussed above if a transaction is made by swiping a card through a credit card terminal it may qualified for a different interchange fee category than if the card information were manually keyed.

It should also be appreciated that monthly minimum fees may also be applied as a way to ensure that merchants partners pay a minimum amount in fees each month to cover costs to maintain the account and or to create minimal profits. Thus if qualified fees of a merchant partner do not equal or exceed the monthly minimum they may be charged up to the monthly minimum to satisfy their minimum fee requirements.

For example a merchant partner may have a contract with a 25.00 monthly minimum fee. If all the fees for the most recent month of processing total only 15.00 this merchant may be charged an additional 10.00 to meet their monthly minimum requirements. It should be appreciated that there are fees that are charged which may not be a part of the monthly minimum such as statement fees etc. Monthly minimum charges may or may not be standard.

A batch fee also known as a batch header fee may also be charged to a merchant partner whenever the merchant settles their terminal. For example settling a terminal also known as batching may occur when a merchant partner sends completed transactions for the day to their acquiring bank for payment. In one embodiment this may be performed automatically. In another embodiment a batch may be closed every twenty four 24 hours. If not a higher rate may be assessed by the one or more merchant card processors.

Accordingly in order to support credit card payments many partners e.g. spa owners may pay credit card merchant fees e.g. interchange fees to various credit card companies such as MasterCard Visa Discover American Express etc. However because these merchant fees generally depend on the volume of business supported at each partner some partners may pay upwards to 2 3 for every credit card transaction especially if they are small spa owners. Because the Management Solution System is a centralized system that may support hundreds or thousands of partners a substantially lower credit card merchant fee rate may be negotiated e.g. 1.0 . As a result a small spa owner who typically pays 3.0 in credit card transaction fees may only be charged 2.0 by the Management Solution System when it becomes a participating partner. As a participating partner the spa may receive the same credit card services through the system and save 1.0 in transaction fees that the spa owner would have never been able to negotiate on its own. Additionally if the negotiated rate by the system is indeed 1.0 a profit may be generated under this business model and all parties benefit from the partnership. Furthermore since these features may be integrated into the Management Solution System platform other charges may be reduced and or eliminated making it more attractive to potential partners. These may include month minimum charge fees and or batch fees. It should also be appreciated that the rate charged per partner may be determined based on the partner s business volume and or other similar factors.

It should be appreciated that a transaction fee may be charged per order. In addition an agreed upon referral fee may also be charged per order. The transaction fees and or referral fees may be similar to those provided by credit card companies e.g. 0.05 transaction fee per charge or 2.00 referral fee . Other various fee options may also be provided.

In some embodiments partners may utilize the Management Solution System as a point of sale POS system and collect payment directly from customers. Here customers may remit payment using a variety of pre defined and or custom payment types such as cash check Visa MasterCard American Express Discover Japan Credit Bureau JCB gift certificate gift card gift voucher cash equivalents etc. Other various payment types may also be provided.

At block the Management Solutions System may charge a partner transaction fee for a transaction performed by a partner. At block the Management Solutions System may receive from a partner payment for the partner transaction fee when the partner performs a transaction. At block the Management Solutions System may pay in the event the partner performs the transaction through a third party a base transaction fee to the third party. In this example the base transaction fee may be equal to or less than the partner transaction fee. At block the Management Solutions System may receive a profit on the transaction. In this example the profit may be at least in part the difference between the partner transaction fee and the base transaction fee.

The Management Solutions System may collect payment from customers utilizing a variety of different mechanisms. In some embodiments these may include direct debit automatic credit card billing and invoicing. Other various embodiments may also be realized. In other embodiments for example transaction fees may be calculated by multiplying a sum of a customer s total monthly paid orders and total monthly unpaid and uncancelled reservations by a negotiated transaction fee percentage. These transaction fees may then be added to any referral fees that a customer has been assessed over the course of the same month or other period of time. In some embodiments referral fees may be calculated by multiplying a pre set value e.g. a flat amount per reservation a percentage of a total order etc. by the number of reservations referred by qualifying referral partners over the course of the same month or other period of time. Other various embodiments may also be provided.

An advantage of web based management solutions according to embodiments of the present disclosure may include significant sales profitability and customer retention. In addition a web based solution may reduce error in scheduling appointments and or other time sensitive services because of real time or near real time booking. Furthermore such a system and method may offer savings and benefits for customers that would otherwise not be available. For example by relying on customers feedback ratings side by side comparisons data gathered from customer demographics etc. new product offerings may be provided based on more accurate assessments of customer spending behaviors and shopping trends.

It should be appreciated that while embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to an on line store e.g. a spa website and corresponding products and services e.g. spa related items described above and depicted in the figures other various implementations maybe also be provided. For example embodiments of the present disclosure may also be applied to manage operations for a health care providers e.g. doctors dentists physical therapist etc. schools and teachers automobile bodyshops and mechanics restaurants movie theaters golf tee times and or other businesses that may benefit from a web based management solutions system capable of booking reservations and managing customers employees facilities inventory payments accounts receivables marketing etc.

In the preceding specification various embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

