---

title: Reducing a number of flow references in messaging associated with a multicast session in a wireless communications system
abstract: An access terminal selects less than all of a plurality of flows associated with a given multicast session, and sends a call registration message including reference to the selected less than all flows to an access network to request registration to each of the plurality of flows. The access network receives the call registration message, and interprets the call registration message as requesting registration to each of the plurality of flows associated with the given multicast session. The access network transmits a scheduling message to a group of access terminals that advertises less than all of a plurality of flows associated with the given multicast session. Access terminals in the group that receive the scheduling message interpret the scheduling message as if each of the plurality of flows is advertised as carried upon a downlink channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611898&OS=08611898&RS=08611898
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08611898
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 167 437 entitled REDUCING A NUMBER OF FLOW REFERENCES IN MESSAGING ASSOCIATED WITH A MULTICAST SESSION IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Apr. 7 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to reducing a number of flow references in messaging associated with a multicast session in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment an access terminal selects less than all of a plurality of flows associated with a given multicast session and sends a call registration message including reference to the selected less than all flows to an access network to request registration to each of the plurality of flows. The access network receives the call registration message and interprets the call registration message as requesting registration to each of the plurality of flows associated with the given multicast session. The access network transmits a scheduling message to a group of access terminals that advertises less than all of a plurality of flows associated with the given multicast session. Access terminals in the group that receive the scheduling message interpret the scheduling message as if each of the plurality of flows is advertised as carried upon a downlink channel.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Next assume that AT receives and decodes the announce message and determines to accept or join the announced multicast call. Accordingly AT generates a call acceptance message e.g. an announce ACK accept message and a call registration message e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration message transmits the call acceptance message to the application server via the RAN on a reverse link channel e.g. a reverse link access channel R ACH a reverse link traffic channel R TCH etc. and transmits the call registration message to the RAN on the reverse link channel . The call registration message is used to inform the RAN that at least one AT in AT s sector is interested in participating in the announced multicast session such that the RAN knows to transmit a plurality of flows e.g. one or more media flows a signaling flow etc. associated with the announced multicast session at least within AT s sector. For example if the announce multicast session corresponds to a PTT session a first BCMCS flow is used for media and a second BCMCS flow is used for signaling. Thus to ensure that the RAN will carry all flows associated with the PTT session the call registration message e.g. the BCMCSFlowRegistration message transmitted in includes a request to receive both of the first and second BCMCS flows. These two BCMCS flows can share the same IM pair in an example but each of the two BCMCS flows would still conventionally be separately advertised in the BOM as will be discussed below in more detail.

After receiving a first call acceptance message from a first responder to the announce message the application server sends a message to AT e.g. the PTT initiator indicating the multicast session can begin. Accordingly AT plays a tone to indicate that the user of AT can begin speaking to the multicast group and AT begins to forward voice data e.g. or other types of data as in a push to transfer PTX call to the application server which forwards the voice data to the RAN for transmission at least within AT s sector.

At some point after receiving the call registration message from AT the RAN transmits an initial scheduling message e.g. a broadcast overhead message BOM on a downlink control channel CCH within AT s sector that lists or advertises the multicast flows carried in AT s sector in association with instructions on how to decode the advertised multicast flows on a downlink broadcast channel BCH . For example in a PTT call the initial scheduling message may correspond to a BOM that advertises the media and signaling flows for the PTT call with each of the media and signaling flows in the BOM indicating the same interlace multiplex IM pair that carries data associated with the PTT call.

Generally the downlink CCH is a relatively low capacity channel whereas the downlink BCH is a relatively high capacity channel. Messages are sent on the downlink CCH when the messages are relatively small and or when it is particularly important for ATs to decode the messages correctly. It is important for ATs to decode BOMs correctly so that the ATs can determine that a multicast session is being on the downlink BCH in their sector and also to figure out how to tune to the multicast session on the downlink BCH in an example. However each advertised flow within the BOM consumes bandwidth on the downlink CCH which reduces the number of multicast sessions that can be advertised within a given sector.

Returning to after decoding the scheduling message e.g. BOM AT tunes to the downlink BCH in the manner indicated by the scheduling message for the advertised flows . Because the same downlink BCH resources e.g. IM pair is listed for each flow of the multicast session AT tunes to the indicated downlink BCH resource in . Next the RAN begins transmitting multicast messages forwarded from the application server e.g. the voice packets uploaded from AT at least in AT s sector in the manner indicated by the scheduling message e.g. on the BOM indicated IM pair for any of the two PTT flows . Each individual transmission of may correspond to any of the flows associated with the given multicast session on one particular IM pair. Because AT has already tuned to the downlink BCH as indicated by the BOM for the given multicast session AT monitors and decodes the multicast packets on the downlink BCH .

As discussed above BOMs and or other similar scheduling messages in other protocols are configured to advertise each flow carried in a particular sector on the downlink BCH. Because the flows associated with a given multicast session do not typically overlap the same IM pair can be used for multiple flows for the session. Thus while two or three e.g. or even more flows can be advertised in a BOM for the multicast session each of the flows indicates the same IM pair on the downlink BCH. The advertisement of each flow for the multicast session indicating the same IM pair consumes precious resources on the downlink CCH as will be discussed below in more detail with respect to .

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention which will now be described in more detail are directed to advertising less than all flows e.g. a single flow associated with a particular multicast session within a scheduling message e.g. a BOM that is transmitted on a downlink channel e.g. a downlink CCH in one or more sectors. Thus in the case where a single flow is advertised the single flow is representative of each multiple flow associated with a given multicast session and one or more ATs that wish to participate in the given multicast session interpret the single flow as an indication that all flows are being carried at the indicated portion e.g. IM pair of the downlink BCH such that the omission of one or more flows in the scheduling message need not prompt a call registration message for the missing or omitted flow s . Thus a scheduling message in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is reduced compared to a conventional scheduling message. Embodiments of the present invention described below are also directed to reducing the number of flows referenced in a call registration message which like the scheduling message may be configured to omit one or more flows while still requesting registration to the omitted flow s .

Next assume that AT receives and decodes the announce message and determines to accept or join the announced multicast call. In instead of simply generating a call acceptance message e.g. an announce ACK accept message and a call registration message e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration message that requests registration to each of a plurality of flows associated with the announced multicast call AT selects less than all flows e.g. a single flow of a given flow type associated with the announced multicast call . AT then sends the call acceptance message to the application server via the RAN on a reverse link channel e.g. the R ACH the R TCH etc. and transmits the call registration message requesting registration only to the selected flow s to the RAN on the reverse link channel .

In an example the selected call flow s from can be representative of the multicast call such that only the selected call flow s need be designated in the call registration message in order to register for each flow associated with the multicast call. For example AT e.g. and potentially other ATs joining the multicast session may select the media flow only in an example and may send the call registration message with reference only to the media flow of the multicast session. In a further example the selected call flow s can be selected based on an associated flow type e.g. media in call signaling etc. such that the same flow type is used for call registration messages. In this manner the RAN can interpret any multicast call registration for a flow of that flow type as being a request for all flows associated with the multicast call. Accordingly as will be described in greater detail below the RAN interprets the call registration message referencing less than all flows in as being a request to register to all flows associated of that particular multicast session. Furthermore as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art a call registration message requesting registration to fewer flows e.g. less than all flows such as a single flow of a default flow type consumes less bandwidth on a reverse link channel e.g. the R ACH the R TCH etc. carrying the call registration message. Thus using one or more representative call flow identifiers e.g. BCMCSFlowIDs in the call registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message to designate at least one other flow not specifically referenced in the call registration message can reduce the load on the reverse link channel.

After receiving a first call acceptance message from a first responder to the announce message the application server sends a message to AT e.g. the PTT initiator indicating that the multicast session can begin. Accordingly AT plays a tone to indicate that the user of AT can begin speaking to the multicast group and AT begins forwards voice data e.g. or other types of data as in a PTX call to the application server which forwards the voice data to the RAN for transmission at least within AT s sector.

After receiving the call registration message in the RAN interprets the call registration message that designates the selected call flow s as a request for each flow associated with the announced multicast call or session . For example in a PTT call if two flows e.g. a media flow and a signaling flow each having their own flow identifier are associated with the PTT call the call registration message may request registration to the media flow. The RAN will interpret this request however as a request to register for both the media and signaling flows in . In another example in a multi media PTT call including three flows e.g. a voice media flow a video media flow and an in call signaling flow each having their own flow identifier and each associated with the PTT call the call registration message may request registration to any one of the three flows or alternatively to two of the three flows. In either case the RAN interprets the call registration message as a request to register to each of the three flows. This example has been given to show that selecting less than all flows does not necessarily imply that only one flow is selected although this could certainly be the case.

At some point after receiving the call registration message from AT the RAN transmits an initial scheduling message e.g. a broadcast overhead message BOM on a downlink CCH within AT s sector that lists or advertises the selected flow s to which AT requested registration in the call registration message of . The RAN omits reference in the scheduling message to the flows associated with the multicast session that were not indicated or selected by AT . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art a scheduling message such as a BOM that advertises fewer flows e.g. less than all flows such as a single flow of a default flow type consumes less bandwidth on the downlink CCH than a conventional scheduling message that would advertise all flows for the multicast session. Thus using one or more representative call flow identifiers e.g. BCMCSFlowIDs in the scheduling message e.g. BOM to designate at least one other flow not specifically referenced in the scheduling message can reduce the load on the downlink CCH. The downlink CCH load reduction can further permit more multicast calls or sessions to be advertised on the downlink CCH which can increase a multicast call capacity in a given sector as will be discussed below in more detail with reference to .

Next assume that AT receives and successfully decodes the scheduling message e.g. BOM advertising only the selected flow s from . In AT interprets the scheduling message or BOM advertising the selected flow s from among the flows associated with the multicast call as being carried on the downlink BCH as an indication that all flows for the multicast call are in fact being carried on the downlink BCH at the indicated BCH resource for the selected flow s in the scheduling message. For example if the scheduling message is a BOM that advertises a BCMCSFlowID for a media flow of a PTT session at a given IM pair on the downlink BCH AT interprets this message in as indicating that one or more other flows associated with the PTT session e.g. a signaling flow and or in call signaling flows are also carried in AT s sector on the given IM pair in an example.

The recognition or interpretation by AT that the one or more missing or omitted flows from the scheduling message are in fact being carried on the downlink BCH resource indicated in the scheduling message for one or more representative flows of the multicast call means that AT need not send additional call registration messages on the reverse link channel e.g. the R ACH the R TCH etc. requesting that the RAN carry the one or more missing flows i.e. because AT already knows the missing flows are actually present on the downlink BCH and further knows how to tune to monitor the missing flows . For example if the scheduling message is a BOM that omits reference to a signaling flow of a given PTT session AT need not send a BCMCSFlowRegistration message identifying the signaling flow because AT makes the assumption that the signaling flow is being carried by the RAN on the downlink BCH resource or IM pair associated with an advertised media flow for the given PTT session.

Thus in AT tunes to the downlink BCH in the manner indicated by the scheduling message for the selected flow s . In other words AT tunes to the indicated downlink BCH resource e.g. IM pair for the selected flow s . However because each flow for the multicast session is carried on the same downlink BCH resource it will be appreciated that by tuning to this downlink BCH resource AT is actually monitoring each flow for the multicast session in e.g. not merely the advertised or selected flow s . Next the RAN begins transmitting multicast messages forwarded from the application server e.g. the voice packets uploaded from AT at least in AT s sector in the manner indicated by the scheduling message e.g. on the BOM indicated IM pair . In data associated with each flow of the multicast session is transmitted on the same downlink BCH resource indicated by the scheduling message in for the selected flow s although it is understood that not all flows need be active at the same time i.e. on the IM pair of the same BCH cycle . Because AT has already tuned to the downlink BCH as indicated by the scheduling message or BOM for the given multicast session AT monitors and decodes the multicast packets on the downlink BCH for each flow of the multicast session .

Accordingly it will be appreciated the less than all flows can be used by AT on the reverse link direction e.g. in the call registration message sent on the reverse link channel in and or by the RAN on the downlink direction e.g. in the scheduling message or BOM sent on the downlink CCH in to indicate a registration or advertisement for all flows of a given multicast session so long as each of the flows is scheduled for transmission on the same downlink BCH. In this manner the load on the reverse link channel and or CCH can be reduced because redundant advertisements of or references to flows associated with the same multicast session need not be included in reverse link or forward link messaging respectively.

Further while the call registration message sent in of and the scheduling message sent in of are both configured to omit one or more flows associated with a multicast session while the omitted flow s are still carried on the downlink BCH it will be appreciated that these messages need not be used in combination. For example the call registration message sent in can designate only the selected flow s which reduces the load on the reverse link channel as discussed above. The RAN could then interpret the call registration message as being for each flow of the multicast session as in but could transmit the scheduling message or BOM advertising each flow of the multicast session instead of merely the selected flow s . For example if not all multicast group members are expected to be capable of interpreting a representative flow as implying each multicast flow is carried on the downlink BCH e.g. as in at AT the RAN may advertise each multicast flow to reduce the number of call registration messages for the omitted flow s from the non compliant multicast group members.

Further as will be described below with respect to even if an AT such as AT sends a call registration message that lists each multicast flow associated with a multicast session the RAN can still configure the scheduling message or BOM to list less than all flows of the multicast session. In this case the selection as to which flow s are advertised would be made at the RAN because the call registration message received from AT on the reverse link channel makes reference to each of the multicast flows.

Accordingly illustrates a multicast call set up process according to another embodiment of the invention. Referring to a given AT AT sends a message requesting to initiate a multicast call or session . The RAN receives the multicast call request and forwards the multicast call request to the application server . The application server receives the multicast call request and generates an announce message for announcing the multicast call or session . The application server forwards the announce message to the RAN for transmission to a plurality of ATs . and of generally correspond to and of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Next assume that AT receives and decodes the announce message and determines to accept or join the announced multicast call. AT generates a call acceptance message e.g. an announce ACK accept message and a call registration message e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration message that requests registration to each of a plurality of flows associated with the announced multicast call as in of . AT sends the call acceptance message to the application server via the RAN on the reverse link channel and transmits the call registration message requesting registration to each multicast flow of the multicast session to the RAN on the reverse link channel . Accordingly the call registration message of is sent in a conventional manner such that reference is made to each multicast flow that AT wishes to monitor even if multiple flows are associated with different aspects e.g. voice media video media in call signaling etc. or flow types of the same multicast session.

After receiving a first call acceptance message from a first responder to the announce message the application server sends a message to AT e.g. the PTT initiator indicating that the multicast session can begin. Accordingly AT plays a tone to indicate that the user of AT can begin speaking to the multicast group and AT begins forwards voice data e.g. or other types of data as in a PTX call to the application server which forwards the voice data to the RAN for transmission at least within AT s sector.

After receiving the call registration message in instead of simply generating a scheduling message that advertises each of a plurality of flows associated with the announced multicast call the RAN selects less than all flows e.g. a single flow of a given flow type associated with the announced multicast call . In an example the selection of of performed at the RAN can be performed in the same manner as the selection of of performed at the AT such that one or more representative call flow IDs are selected to represent each of the multicast call flows of a multicast session e.g. such that each call flow need not be identified or advertised in the downlink scheduling message transmitted on the downlink CCH . In this case shows that a reduced scheduling message that identifies less than all flows of a multicast session can be deployed even where a call registration message makes reference to all flows of the multicast session. Accordingly as evidenced by while useable together the reduced call registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message of of need not necessarily be used in conjunction with the reduced scheduling message e.g. BOM of of .

After making the selection in the RAN transmits a scheduling message e.g. BOM on the downlink CCH that advertises the selected flow s of the multicast session . AT interprets the advertisement of the selected or representative flow s as indicative that each flow is carried at the indicated BCH resource e.g. IM pair in as in of e.g. such that BCMCSFlowRegistration messages requesting the missing flows in AT s sector need not be transmitted because AT already knows these flows are being carried at the given IM pair . Next and of correspond to and of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

As discussed above reducing the number of flows of a given multicast session advertised in a downlink scheduling message such as a BOM preserves resources on the downlink CCH. This in turn allows more multicast sessions to be advertised based on their representative flow s .

For example assume that the downlink CCH sends data packets having a size of 1024 bits at a rate of 307.2 kilobits per second kbps that a media access control MAC packet on the downlink CCH has a net payload of 928 bits that the scheduling message is a BOM each multicast session has two 2 call flows and that the multicasting protocol is an EV DO multicasting protocol e.g. a BCMCS protocol . illustrates a graph of the number of bits required for a BOM on the y axis versus a number of multicast call sessions advertised by the BOM on the x axis according to an embodiment of the present invention. In particular a comparison is shown where for each of 1 through 9 different multicast calls the BOM bits required for advertising each multicast call flow per multicast call session as in the conventional art are shown in contrast to where a single representative multicast call flow that is advertised per multicast call session. While illustrates the example of advertising a single multicast call flow per multicast call in the BOM it is understood that other embodiments can be directed to any BOM or other scheduling message where less than all flows of the multicast call are advertised. In line denotes the downlink CCH MAC packet bit limit of 928 bits for this example. Thus in BOMs advertising seven or more 7 multicast calls cannot be contained within a single downlink CCH MAC packet under these assumptions where two flows per call are advertised whereas up to nine 9 multicast calls can be advertised using a single representative multicast call flow per multicast call in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

In another example assume that the downlink CCH sends data packets having a size of 2048 bits at a rate of 409.6 kilobits per second kbps that a media access control MAC packet on the downlink CCH has a net payload of 928 bits that the scheduling message is a BOM each multicast session has two 2 call flows and that the multicasting protocol is an EV DO multicasting protocol e.g. a BCMCS protocol . illustrates a graph of the number of bits required for a BOM on the y axis versus a number of multicast call sessions advertised by the BOM on the x axis according to another embodiment of the present invention. In particular a comparison is shown where for each of 1 through 12 different multicast calls the BOM bits required for advertising each multicast call flow per multicast call session as in the conventional art are shown in contrast to where a single representative multicast call flow that is advertised per multicast call session. While illustrates the example of advertising a single multicast call flow per multicast call in the BOM it is understood that other embodiments can be directed to any BOM or other scheduling message where less than all flows of the multicast call are advertised. In line denotes the downlink CCH MAC packet bit limit of 928 bits for this example. Thus in BOMs advertising eight or more 8 multicast calls cannot be contained within a single downlink CCH MAC packet under these assumptions where two flows per call are advertised whereas up to twelve 12 multicast calls can be advertised using a single representative multicast call flow per multicast call in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Also while above described embodiments of the invention have referenced EV DO multicast protocols such as BCMCS it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention be directed to any multicast protocol e.g. MBMS in UMTS etc. where reverse link or downlink messaging that references multicast flows of a multicast session is reduced by using less than all flows to represent each flow of the group such that not all flows for a multicast session need be referenced in a call registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message in BCMCS and or such that not all flows for the multicast session need be referenced in a downlink scheduling message e.g. BOM in BCMCS indicating which flows the RAN is carrying.

Further while the downlink scheduling message or BOM is disclosed as advertising only representative multicast call flow s or selected call flow s in certain embodiments of the invention this is intended to be relative to the one or more omitted call flows from that particular multicast call session only. In other words the term only in this circumstance is not intended to indicate that no other multicast call sessions are advertised but rather merely that for a particular multicast call session within the scheduling message or BOM only the representative call flows are advertised. Thus while the scheduling message or BOM only transmits the selected or representative call flow s for one multicast call session the same BOM can also advertise call flows associated with other multicast call sessions. This should be appreciated in view of the description given with respect to above e.g. where multiple calls are advertised in a BOM on a single downlink CCH MAC packet .

Further while each of are directed to BOMs sent during call set up and call registration messages sent by ATs in response to call announce messages it is understood that BOMs are transmitted at a given BOM interval throughout the multicast session and that each of the BOMs can include a reduced number of advertised flows in an example. Likewise the call registration message transmitted by AT need not be in response to a call announce message. For example AT may wake up after the multicast call has been announced and can send the call registration message that point. Alternatively AT s call registration message can be prompted by the RAN itself e.g. if the RAN sets an RFDB field in the BOM to 1 to prompt a BCMCSFlowRegistration message or upon AT s entry into a new sector that is not yet supporting the multicast session e.g. after waiting a given amount of time to receive BOM and then determining that the multicast session is not yet carried in the sector . Any of these call registration messages can include references to a reduced number of multicast call flows in other embodiments of the invention.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

