---

title: Radio frequency integrated circuit for enhanced transmit/receive performance in low power applications and method of making the same
abstract: A radio frequency integrated circuit (and method of making) for enhancing wireless communication and/or sensing systems comprising a base comprising a gallium arsenide (GaAs) substrate; a binary phase shift keying modulator fabricated on the base; a power amplifier fabricated on the base and operatively associated with the binary phase shift keying modulator; the power amplifier having a first shunt operatively associated therewith; a transmit/receive switch fabricated on the base, the transmit/receive switch being operatively associated with the power amplifier and being alternately connectable to an antenna port adapted to be connected to an antenna; a low noise amplifier fabricated on the base; the low noise amplifier being alternately connectable to the antenna port, the low noise amplifier having a second shunt operatively associated therewith; the circuit operating in a transmit stage in which the power amplifier is connected to the antenna port and in a receive stage in which the low noise amplifier is connected to the antenna port; whereby in the receive stage the power amplifier is bypassed by the first shunt to reduce current consumption and substantially isolate the receive stage from the transmit stage; and in the transmit stage the low noise amplifier is bypassed by the second shunt to reduce current consumption and to substantially isolate the transmit stage from the receive stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08472887&OS=08472887&RS=08472887
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08472887
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100909
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates broadly to IC circuits and in particular to radio frequency integrated circuits.

High performance microwave and radio frequency integrated circuits are of interest both for military and civilian applications. The ability to design custom integrated circuits and fabricate prototypes in a timely and cost effective manner is a prime concern. Low power sensor networks have recently become very popular for applications such as logistics and home automations. Remote low power radio frequency RF applications are becoming more prevalent and low power tends to mean short transmission range. This necessitates the need to develop custom RF enhancement chips to meet military and commercial needs that can t be met by commercial off the shelf COTS chips.

Low power radio frequency RF transceivers have been used for low cost high volume commercial applications that do not always meet the needs of critical military systems. In low power applications a tradeoff between transmit range and battery life exists. A simple means of extending transmit range would be to add a custom integrated circuit IC between the transceiver and antenna. Using appropriate technologies a tradeoff in size efficiency and performance is achievable.

By way of background a high electron mobility transistor is referred to as an HEMT. Generally speaking the two different materials used for the heterojunction in an HEMT must have the same lattice constant. A variation of this is a PHEMT of pseudomorphic HEMT where an extremely thin layer of one of the materials stretches to fit the other material thin layer. GaAs PHEMTs make very good low noise amplifiers high efficiency power amplifiers and have very good RF switch characteristics. The blocks for the RFIC Booster chip take advantage of these high performance characteristics of GaAs to increase the output power power efficiency and noise figure.

By way of background phase shift keying PSK is a digital modulation scheme that conveys data by changing or modulating the phase of a reference signal the carrier wave . Digital modulation schemes use distinct signals to represent digital data while Phase shift keying PSK uses phase shifts to represent a unique pattern of binary digits. Generally each phase is encoded to represent a number of bits. Each pattern of bits represents a symbol that is represented by the particular phase. A demodulator designed specifically for the symbol set used by the modulator is used to determine the phase of the received signal and map it back to the original symbol or data. The capability of the receiver to compare the phase of the received signal to a reference signal is referred to as coherent PSK CPSK . Similarly instead of bit patterns being used to set the phase of the wave the phase change can be utilized. The demodulator would then determine the change in the phase of the received signal rather than the phase itself or the difference between successive phases also referred to as differential phase shift keying DPSK .

In PSK the chosen constellation points are usually positioned so as to be uniformly spaced around a circle for maximum phase separation between adjacent points and the best immunity to corruption. Positioning within a circle provides transmission with the same energy and the moduli of the complex numbers they represent will be the same and so will the amplitudes needed for the cosine and sine waves. Two common examples are binary phase shift keying BPSK which uses two phases and quadrature phase shift keying QPSK which uses four phases although any number of phases may be used. Since the data to be conveyed are usually binary the PSK scheme is usually designed with the number of constellation points being a power of 2.

A preferred embodiment of the invention comprises a radio frequency integrated circuit for enhancing wireless communication and or sensing systems comprising a base comprising a gallium arsenide GaAs substrate a binary phase shift keying modulator fabricated on the base a power amplifier fabricated on the base and operatively associated with the binary phase shift keying modulator the power amplifier having a first shunt operatively associated therewith a transmit receive switch fabricated on the base the transmit receive switch being operatively associated with the power amplifier and being alternately connectable to an antenna port adapted to be connected to an antenna a low noise amplifier fabricated on the base the low noise amplifier being alternately connectable to the antenna port the low noise amplifier having a second shunt operatively associated therewith the circuit operating in a transmit stage in which the power amplifier is connected to the antenna port and in a receive stage in which the low noise amplifier is connected to the antenna port whereby in the receive stage the power amplifier is bypassed by the first shunt to reduce current consumption and substantially isolate the receive stage from the transmit stage and in the transmit stage the low noise amplifier is bypassed by the second shunt to reduce current consumption and to substantially isolate the transmit stage from the receive stage. The preferred embodiments are designed to supplement commercial RFIC transceivers to enable improved power handling standoff noise immunity and size weight and power SWAP at the system level using gallium arsenide GaAs technology to provide enhanced performance. Multiple variations were used to cover different frequencies and specifications for enhancing the GaAs RFIC Booster including customizing the subcircuits of power amplifier low noise amplifier BPSK modulator and a transmit receive switch to optimize the output power noise figure power added efficiency insertion loss and range performance of an overall low power radio frequency system. The extended range and small form factor greatly increases the operators risk of staying out of harm s way when retrieving data or performing maintenance for remote applications. The invention includes a method of making the integrated circuit comprising method of making an integrated circuit comprising providing a base comprising a gallium arsenide GaAs substrate fabricating a binary phase shift keying modulator on the base fabricating a power amplifier on the base the power amplifier being operatively associated with the binary phase shift keying modulator the power amplifier having a first shunt operatively associated therewith fabricating a transmit receive switch on the base the transmit receive switch being operatively associated with the power amplifier and being alternately connectable to an antenna port adapted to be connected to an antenna fabricating a low noise amplifier on the base the low noise amplifier being alternately connectable to the antenna port the low noise amplifier having a second shunt operatively associated therewith.

The embodiments of the invention provide a simplified design with the goal of being able to work with enhance the RFIC s from multiple vendors. Moreover a significant objective of the described preferred embodiments is to minimize the amount of software or other changes on the part of a given vendor essentially a drop in technology i.e. insertable into an existing system geared towards optimizing the performance of existing RFIC s for use in high noise or extended range applications.

The invention can be used to enhance the performance of wireless RF systems using commercial parts. It could also be used as a standalone binary phase shift keying BPSK modulation system by adding the digital controller and an oscillator source using the RFIC booster chip as the front end of a transceiver.

Military and commercial applications using wireless data transmission are numerous and constantly growing in new directions. In low power military applications a tradeoff between transmit range and battery life exists. A simple means of extending transmit range would be to add the described custom integrated circuit IC between the transceiver and antenna. By way of example the invention could be used to enhance the use of unattended ground sensor systems allowing for the retrieval of sensor data from greater distances.

RFIC s are utilized in a variety of commercial products such as cell cordless phones computers and other wireless networking applications. Because the described RF integrated circuit IC booster chip is intended to interface between the transceiver and antenna to increase range between nodes for low power RF applications the invention could provide benefit to a variety of commercial applications where the current performance is not able to meet a demand or challenge e.g. high noise environments . Specific commercial applications could include cellular communications wireless networking devices extended range RFID applications etc.

A block diagram representation of a preferred embodiment booster chip is depicted in . depicts an RFIC narrowband 450 MHz booster chip on a 4 4 mm tile to enhance performance of a companion integrated circuit IC on a GaAs substrate. The transmit stage of the circuit consists of the BPSK modulator cascaded with a power amplifier and TR switch. The receive stage of the circuit consists of the TR switch cascaded with the LNA. The BPSK modulator is a novel component and typically exists off chip. There are additional gate enable DC inputs to provide a higher level of isolation between the power amplifier and LNA stages than is currently available. These gate enable features are also novel to this invention and are denoted in as LNAen and PAen respectively. This will save power consumption and provide additional isolation between transmit and receive stages. This isolation could be essential for system level performance and provides an additional 60 dB of isolation between transmit and receive beyond the 35 40 dB of isolation provided by the TR switch. This additional isolation could be provided in the other designs by providing switching supplies for the separate LNA and power amplifier supply inputs but this would require significant board area compared to the simple gate enable inputs. The BPSK modulator has a negative DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V to activate the A and B control pins. The TR switch has a positive DC reference of 2.5 V on the control inputs corresponding to ON and 0.0 V corresponding to OFF which activate the transmit stage or the receive stage respectively. The PA and LNA both have a 2.7 to 3.0 V supply voltage.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

For many environments commercial off the shelf COTS radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs have been exploited to the extent of their capabilities. High noise environments require increased dynamic range and optimized power budget. Improved RF performance and optimal use of system resources is needed to function in critical applications.

Commercial companies have RFIC front end chips that boost output power that are targeted for 2.4 GHz but use a silicon based chip silicon processes. Gallium arsenide GaAs is superior in performance to silicon in efficiency noise figure and switching speeds. In addition at least one preferred embodiment includes an on board BPSK modulator uses a robust current mirror bias for varying battery supply voltages and has gate enables that provide very high isolation between the transmit and receive paths. The present invention supplements commercial RFIC transceivers for improved power handling standoff noise immunity and SWAP at the system level. The optional designs of the preferred embodiments emphasize circuits that take advantage of superior GaAs characteristics. This also provides a simple means to enhance the performance of existing COTS RFICs without modifying the existing programming and intellectual property IP investment of a given manufacturer. Using the concept of the present invention wireless sensors can operate remotely for longer periods of time and deliver increased transmission range as well as retrieve critical data from safer distances which may be a challenge in certain environments or applications.

While most RFIC s provide power output in the up to 10 mW range the invention has shown it can provide up to 100 mW output an order of magnitude improvement. Furthermore a targeted goal of a 50 increase in power added efficiency PAE may be achieved using the invention. Efforts demonstrated potential optimizing of the IC performance characteristics for requirements such as battery voltage output power or noise figure NF .

The preferred embodiments RFIC integrated circuits utilize the superior performance of GaAs technology which provides better performance properties and may be used for applications such as high efficiency solar cells laser diodes and the high electron mobility transistor HEMT which is used in cell phones communication systems radars etc. .

There also exists a desire was to keep the design footprint small with a goal of fitting in a 3 3 mm QFN package and optimizing performance over a 20 25 bandwidth rather than a high octave or more expansive bandwidth. For output power a goal of 50 to 100 mW of output power with close to 50 Power Added Efficiency was desired. For noise figure a goal of 1 to 2 dB is desirable far lower than the noise figure of a typical RFIC of 7 dB or worse. Block enhancement included incorporation of the BPSK modulator which can provide extremely high modulation rates due to the high switching speeds of GaAs PHEMTs. A designed gate enable transistor on each Emode PHEMT based amplifier was added to provide much greater isolation between the operation modes of the TR switch.

In the embodiment illustrated in in the transmit mode the RF signal traverses the BPSK modulator PA and TRS. The resulting output signal has about 100 mW of output power. The goal of the PA design is to achieve a gain of 20 dB an input match of at least 10 dB and a PAE of at least 50 . The BPSK modulator should have a 180 phase difference between the two modulation states with minimal insertion loss and an input and output match of 10 dB or better. In receive mode the RF signal traverses the TRS and LNA which is designed to amplify the incoming signal with minimal effect on the noise level. It is desired that the LNA should have a noise figure NF of less than 2 dB a gain of 15 dB and an input and output match of at least 10 dB.

In the PA design there is always a tradeoff between the PAE and gain and likewise there will be a similar tradeoff between the NF and gain for the LNA design. For the TRS there is a tradeoff between layout area insertion loss isolation and bandwidth. The goal of the following design is to optimize the performance between these tradeoffs while minimizing the power consumption and IC footprint.

The initial tests of the RFIC Booster designs were performed with a manual RF probe station and other RF measurement equipment such as network analyzers power meters spectrum analyzers and noise figure meters. S parameters. RF power output. phase shift noise figure. DC power consumption and power efficiency PAE were measured for the various designs and circuit blocks. Results were close to the original simulations and expectations with some minor differences. Some circuit enhancements could not easily be measured on the RF probe station because of the limited number of DC probes to feed the DC voltage to set the biases. These designs were later tested on a small PC board using Rogers 4003 dielectric after the die were assembled in RF QFN packages.

Table 1 gives the first test results for a DC bias of 2.7 V and 17 mA and table 2 gives the results for a DC bias of 3.0 V and 25 mA. As expected. the output power and PAE increase with input power but there is a tradeoff between increasing PAE and decreasing gain.

Table 2 shows a PAE of 52.1 at the beginning of 3 dB compression for a DC input power of only 78.3 mW and table 2 shows a PAE of 50.6 for a DC power of 102.0 mW.

Table 3 gives the first test results for a DC bias of 3.0 V and 18 mA For the BPSK modulator plus power amplifier there is a PAE of 41.6 at the beginning of 3 dB compression for a DC input power of only 78.0 mW lower than for the power amplifier tested without the modulator.

A designed gate enable transistor on each Emode PHEMT based amplifier was added to provide much greater isolation between the operation modes of the TR switch. The gate enable also functions to virtually turn off the power supply consumption without requiring additional real estate and external circuitry for an additional voltage regulator. Included was a robust current mirror biased so that the amplifier circuits could operate over a range of battery voltages keeping the output power and power added efficiency PAE optimal over lower supply voltages. This feature also does not typically exist in COTS chips and is extremely important for remote low power applications. A schematic layout representation of the booster chip is depicted in which depicts a full RFIC narrowband 450 MHz booster chip on a 4 4 mm tile on a GaAs substrate. The transmit stage of the circuit consists of the BP SK modulator cascaded with a power amplifier and TR switch. The receive stage of the circuit consists of the TR switch cascaded with the LNA. The BPSK modulator typically exists off chip. There are additional gate enable DC inputs to provide a higher level of isolation between the power amplifier and LNA stages than is currently available. These gate enable features are denoted in as LNAen and PAen respectively and save power consumption and provide additional isolation between transmit and receive stages. This isolation could be essential for system level performance and provides an additional 60 dB of isolation between transmit and receive beyond the 35 40 dB of isolation provided by the TR switch. Alternately without departing from the scope of the invention this additional isolation could be provided in the other designs by providing switching supplies for the separate LNA and power amplifier supply inputs but this would require significant board area compared to the simple gate enable inputs. The BPSK modulator has a negative DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V to activate the A and B control pins. The TR switch has a positive DC reference of 2.5 V on the control inputs corresponding to ON and 0.0 V corresponding to OFF which activate the transmit stage or the receive stage respectively. The PA and LNA both have a 2.7 to 3.0 V supply voltage.

Table 4 gives the numerical test results of the power amplifier in the QFN packaged for a DC bias of 2.7 V and 22 mA and of 3.0 V and 32 mA. There is a PAE of 33.4 at the beginning of 3 dB compression for a DC input power of only 86.4 mW and a PAE of 31.0 for a DC power of 114.0 mW. The PAE of the packaged IC is about 10 lower than the probed bare die measurement. It could be that the inductance of the wire bond in the package is negatively affecting the performance of the transmit stage.

Measurements of the design in a QFN package are shown for comparison to the initial probe measurements of the bare die. The performance in the package is comparable to the die measurements in most cases or slightly worse due to additional losses in the package.

Generally speaking commercial companies have chips that boost output power that are targeted for 2.4 GHz but use silicon processes. GaAs is superior in performance to silicon in efficiency noise figure and switching speeds. In addition the present design includes an on board BPSK modulator optionally uses a robust current mirror bias for varying battery supply voltages and have optional gate enables that provide very high isolation between the transmit and receive paths. The preferred embodiments may include circuits that take advantage of superior GaAs characteristics. This circuitry provides a simple means to reduce power consumption to the power amplifier or low noise amplifier without having to utilize a separate external power supply.

The preferred embodiment GaAs design improves performance over the newer silicon based RFIC booster chips by enabling their use in environments or applications beyond the capabilities of COTS parts. The addition of the optional current mirror into the design provides longer operational life in remote operations and additional pins to increase the isolation between transmit and receive stages of the circuit for improved performance.

The invention may be used for example to enhance the performance of any wireless RF system using commercial parts. It could also be used as a standalone BPSK modulation system by adding a digital controller and an oscillator source with the RFIC booster chip as the front end of a transceiver. One substantial benefit is the fact that wireless sensors can operate remotely for longer periods of time and increased transmission range means critical data can be retrieved from safer differences.

Using the concepts of the present invention there is high isolation between transmit and receive paths by the combination of TR switch isolation and an amplifier gate enable circuit. The addition of the current mirror allows stable current consumption even at decreasing DC voltage supplies.

The design in is a 900 MHz booster chip on a 95 65 mil die. A current mirror at the DC input limits variation of current consumption in the PA and LNA over for a wider range of supply voltages. For battery operated applications this ensures chip operation even as the battery output degrades over time and usage. The BPSK modulator has a positive DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V to activate the modulation state control pins. The TRS has a positive DC reference of 2.5 V on the control inputs corresponding to ON and 0.0 V corresponding to OFF which activates the transmit and receive stages respectively. The PA and LNA both have a 2.7 to 3.0 V supply voltage for optimal performance.

The gain of the transmit stage is expected to be about 14 dB since the PA is designed to 20 dB and there is an insertion loss of 2 dB in the BPSK modulator an attenuator of 3 dB between the two stages and a loss of 1.0 dB in the TRS. The gain of the receive stage is expected to be about 14 dB after taking the insertion loss of the TRS into account. The two port S parameters of the transmit stage were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in which show the simulated versus measured results of the S parameters for the transmit stage of the chip in both modulation states. Both states show fairly good agreement with the simulated results at 900 MHz with some discrepancy in the S21 measurement. State A has a measured S11 of 15.34 dB which is better than a simulation of approximately 14.5 dB but degrades from the 19.67 dB of the simulation. The input match of state B is 10.73 dB which matches the simulation exactly but also degrades from 12.13 dB. The measured S21 of states A and B are 13.6 dB and 13.3 dB respectively which averages to a 2 dB degradation from the simulation. The gain for state A degrades 1.5 dB while the gain of state B only degrades approximately 0.3 dB.

At 900 MHz a gain of 14.6 dB was seen for both modulation states an output match of approximately 9.0 dB for both modulation states and an input match of approximately 13.0 and 10.5 dB for state A versus state B respectively. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TRS the PA is providing a gain of about 20.6 dB which exceeds the original design goals. The output match of both states was also good and the input match was acceptable.

The PAE was tested by injecting sequentially increasing power levels and recording the corresponding output levels on a spectrum analyzer after accounting for cable losses. The following equation to calculate PAE was used where Pis output power Pis input power and Pis the DC input 

The two port S parameters of the receive stage were simulated and the results are depicted in . At 900 MHz a gain of 12.8 dB was achieved an output match of 31.6 dB and an input match of approximately 6.5 dB. With the additional losses introduced by the TRS the LNA is providing a gain of about 13.8 dB. shows the NF of the receive stage to be 3 dB.

Optimal custom Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit MMIC design requires knowledge of the intended packaging of the device to absorb package parasitics at microwave frequencies. Quad flat no leads QFN packages are small inexpensive plastic packages that minimize board space relative to the die size and are very popular for lower frequency RFICs. A die was designed for a 3 3 mm QFN or a 4 4 mm QFN. Modeling of the wire bond inductances at these ultra high frequencies UHF indicated that the packaging should have minimal impact on the performance.

Generally the performance was comparable to the probe station measurements. Typically output power and PAE was only slightly degraded by additional package parasitics. NF measurements were typically better when tested at the package level because of the floating grounds in the probe tests. The NF of the design was 1.9 dB in the package less than the 3 dB measured at the bare die level. Some features such as the high isolation of the gate enables were only testable at the package level because of the limited number of DC probes available during the characterization of the bare die. A simple test board with subminiature version A SMA connectors for the RF and wire leads for the DC connections was used to test the bare die assembled in the QFN packages. is an illustration of an image of wire bonded RFIC booster chip on a 4 4 mm QFN package. The QFN packages are not standard in terms of the I O pad placement and die pads but at these sub 1 GHz frequencies the package parasitics are negligible

The design simulation fabrication characterization packaging and testing of a custom GaAs RFIC chip is to enhance the range performance of low power RF applications. In accordance with the principles of the present invention four separate elements a BPSK modulator a highly linear low power PA with 20 dB gain an LNA with a NF lower than 2 dB and or a low insertion loss TRS may be included in a small form factor where the footprint of the inductors and capacitors is was large in comparison to the overall footprint of the chip at lower frequencies. Overall the power amplifier met the design goals by providing 50 mW of output power at 2.7 V coupled with a 50 PAE. It can be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art that IC performance characteristics for a particular set of system level requirements such as battery voltage output power or NF can be optimized without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Several Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits MMICs were designed to enhance the performance of commercial off the shelf COTS RF Integrated Circuits RFICs . These various U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL designs were fabricated at TriQuint Semiconductor with their Prototype Development Quickturn PDQ Option using their gallium arsenide GaAs 0.5 m TQPED Pseudomorphic High Electron Mobility Transistor PHEMT process. The designs were tested with a Microwave Probe Station and then were packaged in Quad Flat No Lead QFN parts for additional testing at a board level. The packaged designs may be incorporated into actual TTL circuit boards for performance testing. Following is documentation of the packaging of these GaAs designs and the test results in those packages.

The following sections describe Gallium Arsenide GaAs Integrated Circuit Design for Radio Frequency Booster Chips at 450 900 and 2400 MHz.

The RFIC booster chip may optionally incorporate four different elements the binary phase shift keying BPSK modulator the power amplifier PA the transmit receive TR switch and the low noise amplifier LNA . In transmit mode the RF signal traverses the BPSK modulator and PA. The resulting output signal has about 100 mW of output power. In receive mode the RF signal traverses the LNA which amplifies the incoming signal with minimal effect on the noise level. This in turn increases the power level of the received signal making it easier to detect. The TR switch toggles the circuit from transmit and receive mode as necessary.

The goal of the PA design was to achieve a gain of 20 dB an input match of at least 10 dB and a power added efficiency PAE of at least 50 . Ideally the BPSK modulator should have a 180 phase difference between the two modulation states with a minimal insertion loss and an input and output match of at least 10 dB. Ideally the LNA should have a noise figure NF of less than 2 dB a gain of 15 dB and an output match of at least 10 dB. Ideally the TR switch should have a minimal insertion loss of less than 1 dB or better a good isolation between the switch states of better than 30 dB and the ability to operate with at least the expected 20 dBm signal level of the PA.

In the PA design a tradeoff exists between the PAE and gain and likewise there exists a similar tradeoff between NF and gain for the LNA design. For the TR switch there is a tradeoff of layout area insertion loss isolation and bandwidth. A goal of the following preferred embodiments was to optimize the performance between these tradeoffs while minimizing the power consumption and IC footprint.

A preferred embodiment referred to as the Cascaded Narrowband BPSK Modulator and PA Design at 900 MHz with Broadband LNA ARL01M900 is a narrowband 900 MHz cascaded BPSK modulator and PA with a separate broadband LNA on a 3 3 mm tile. The BPSK modulator has a negative DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V to activate the A and B control pins while the PA has a 2.7 to 3.0 V supply voltage. and show the schematic and layout of the design that was used for the simulations.

The intent of the simulation of the embodiment of was to measure how the BPSK modulator and PA will work in combination as well as evaluate the performance of the LNA design at 900 MHz. The gain of the transmit stage was expected to be 15 dB since the PA is designed to 20 dB and there is a 2 dB insertion loss in the BPSK modulator with a 3 dB attenuator between the two circuits.

The two port S parameters of the cascaded BPSK and PA embodiment of were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in . At 900 MHz we see a gain of 14.5 dB for both modulation states an output match of approximately 9.5 and 10.5 dB for state A versus state B and an input match of approximately 10.8 and 14.0 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator and additional attenuator the PA provided a gain of about 19.5 dB which is in line with the original design goals. The input and output matches of both states produced acceptable results. shows the PAE and output power of the PA without the BPSK modulator to be 53.6 at a 20.1 dBm output power.

The two port S parameters of the broadband LNA were simulated and the results are depicted in . From 400 MHz to 8 GHz a gain ranging from approximately 17.5 to 6.0 dB was observed. The gain up to about 2 GHz stays within range of the design goals. There is much less variation in output match and input match over the frequency range. From 400 MHz to 8 GHz an output match ranging from 9.0 to 11.5 dB and an input match ranging from approximately 8.0 to 10.5 dB was observed. shows the NF of the receive stage to be less than 2.0 from about 400 MHz to 3 GHz which incorporates all of our frequency bands of interest. This broadband LNA met all of the design goals but consumed more DC power than the narrowband designs.

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as the BPSK Modulator PA Broadband LNA and TR Switch at 900 MHz ARL04M900 as depicted schematically in . An example of the layout of the design a full RFIC 900 MHz booster chip is illustrated in shown on a 3 3 mm tile. The LNA is both broadband and higher in gain. The BPSK modulator has a negative DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V to activate the A and B control pins. In this design the TR switch also has a negative DC OFF state of approximately 3.0 V and an ON state of 0.0 V which activate the transmit stage or the receive stage respectively. The PA and LNA both have the same 2.7 V to 3.0 V supply voltage as in section 3.3.

The intent of this design is to compare the results of this smaller footprint to that of section describing the Narrowband BPSK Modulator PA Narrowband LNA and TR Switch at 900 MHz ARL03M900 where the same elements and operating frequency are used but the layout has a 4 4 mm footprint. This circuit has been designed to have the similar values for gain input match output match and NF as in the section describing the Narrowband BPSK Modulator PA Narrowband LNA and TR Switch at 900 MHz ARL 03M900 .

The two port S parameters of the transmit stage of the embodiment of were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in . At 900 MHz there was a gain of 14.6 dB for both modulation states an output match of approximately 8.5 dB for both modulation states and an input match of approximately 13.5 and 10.3 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TR switch the PA provided a gain of about 20.6 dB which exceeds the original design goals. After shrinking the footprint the behavior of the transmit stage of the 3 3 mm RFIC is similar to the RFIC design with the 4 4 mm footprint at 900 MHz.

Following an internal design review feedback was obtained as to how the designs could be changed to better fit the needs of the various intended applications. A change that was implemented in the following redesigns is that circuitry was added to ensure that all the DC biases for the BPSK modulator and TR switch were positive. For the BPSK modulator the change to a positive control voltage was fairly simple in that the Dmode pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor PHEMT switches were replaced with Emode PHEMT switches of the same size with minimal impact to the layout. There was a slight impact to the control input design to limit the input voltage to less than 1 V to prevent damage from high current to the Emode switches while maintaining control input levels of 2.5 to 5.0 V. A small diode and a simple resistor divider circuit is used to limit the input voltage with a small current penalty. The Dmode switches do not require this voltage gate current protection circuit and require zero current at DC for the control inputs. The initial positive input circuit design consumes about 1 mA for each control input and modification of the resistor divider circuit to reduce this current is within the scope of the present invention.

For the PHEMT switches in the TR switch the Emode devices could not handle the relatively high RF power levels of the PA expected to be around 20 dBm 100 mW . Dmode PHEMT switches had to be used for the TR switch but the normal negative gate control voltages can be made positive by providing a positive reference voltage to set the ON voltage and by adding capacitors to isolate DC paths to ground the TR switch. Four isolation capacitors were required to make a positive control voltage for the TR switch and these capacitors can be quite large particularly at 450 MHz. The penalty in converting the TR switch to positive control was the addition of an extra input pad to establish the ON reference voltage and the additional area of the DC isolation capacitors. There may be some additional insertion loss to the positive voltage TR switch over the negative control voltage version particularly if the capacitors are not sufficiently large.

Also a current mirror was added to some of the preferred embodiment designs to enable current consumption in the PA and LNA to remain relatively constant for a range of supply voltages. For the amplifier bias the initial designs used a simple resistor divider to provide the DC gate bias voltage. The resistor divider approach makes the amplifier bias very sensitive to supply voltage particularly for the lower bias current of the LNA amplifier. A current mirror uses a small PHEMT to set the gate bias voltage based on the current in the amplifier and is much less sensitive to supply voltage. This yields a useable amplifier over a much larger voltage range designed to operate from 2.0 5.0 V. This makes the RFIC booster chip more robust as battery voltages degrade in use and also makes it more suitable for a larger variety of supply voltages and different applications.

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as the Cascaded BPSK Modulator and PA Redesign with Current Mirror at 450 MHz ARL08M450 schematically illustrated in . The embodiment comprises a current mirror added to the design of the PA and new circuitry needed to add a DC reference voltage and turn the respective BPSK modulator states positive. The DC bias for the switch states of the BPSK modulator is now 2.0 5.0 V to enable and 0.0 V to disable. illustrates the layout for the narrowband cascaded BPSK modulator and PA redesign with a robust current mirror at 450 MHz having a footprint of 3 3 mm.

The two port S parameters of the cascaded BPSK and PA were simulated for the embodiment of with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the cascaded PA in both states of the narrowband BPSK modulator with a robust current mirror at 450 MHz. At 450 MHz there was a gain of 15.3 dB for both modulation states an output match of approximately 8.0 and 7.5 dB for state A versus state B and an input match of approximately 13.5 and 9.02 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator and attenuator the PA is providing a gain of about 20.3 dB. Overall the new elements added to the IC design did not affect the simulations.

Intended laboratory measurements of the fabricated circuit were substantially similar to the S parameter and PAE measurements described for the embodiments of .

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as the BPSK Modulator PA Narrowband LNA and TR Switch Redesign with Current Mirror at 2.4 GHz ARL09G24 as shown schematically in . This is a redesign of the preferred embodiment shown schematically in ARL07G24 with the addition of the current mirror to the design of the PA and the new circuitry needed to make the DC reference voltage turn the respective BPSK modulator states positive. The DC bias for the switch states of the BPSK modulator is now 2.0 5.0 V to enable and 0.0 V to disable. The footprint of the circuit is still 3 3 mm and shows the layout for preferred embodiment of .

The two port S parameters of the transmit stage of the embodiment were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the cascaded PA in both states of the BPSK modulator with a robust current mirror at 2.4 GHz. At 2.4 GHz we see a gain of 12.6 dB for both modulation states an input match of approximately 18.3 and 16.0 dB for state A versus state B and an output match of approximately 10.0 and 9.5 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TR switch the PA was providing a gain of about 16.6 dB. Overall the changes in design for this IC did not affect the simulated results as compared to chip ARL07G24 shown in .

The two port S parameters of the receive stage for the embodiment of were simulated and the results are depicted in . At 2.4 GHz there was a gain of 13.1 dB an output match of 24.2 dB for the LNA and an input match of approximately 7.0 dB. With the additional losses introduced by the TR switch the LNA is providing a gain of about 14.1 dB. The input and output matches are the same as those for chip ARL07G24 . shows the NF of the receive stage to be 2.191 for the embodiment of . Overall the new elements added to the IC design had negligible affects on the simulated results as compared to chip ARL07G24 which is a 2400 MHz design comprising a BPSK modulator a PA a TRS and a narrowband LNA. Both the LNA and PA have a robust current mirror bias.

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as the BPSK Modulator PA Narrowband LNA and TR Switch Redesign at 900 MHz ARL10M900 as schematically illustrated in . This is a redesign of the ARL03M900 described schematically in . The only changes are the addition of the current mirror to the design of the PA and the new circuitry needed to add a DC reference voltage and turn the respective BPSK modulator states positive. The DC bias for the switch states of the BPSK modulator is now 2 5.0 V to enable and 0.0 V to disable. The footprint of the circuit is still 4 4 mm and show the schematic and layout for 4 4 mm narrowband RFIC booster chip design at 900 MHz.

The two port S parameters of the transmit stage were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the cascaded PA redesign in both states of the BPSK modulator. At 900 MHz there was a gain of 14.7 dB for both modulation states an output match of approximately 9.0 dB for both modulation states and an input match of approximately 14.0 and 10.4 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TR switch the PA is providing a gain of about 20.6 dB. Overall the new elements added to the IC design had negligible affects on the simulated results as compared to chip ARL03M900 .

The two port S parameters of the receive stage for the embodiment of were simulated and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the LNA redesign with the TR switch set to receive mode at 900 MHz. At 900 MHz we see a gain of 12.8 dB an output match of 31.6 dB for and an input match of approximately 6.5 dB. With the additional losses introduced by the TR switch the LNA is providing a gain of about 13.8 dB. illustrates NF for the LNA redesign with the TR switch set to receive mode at 2.4 GHz. shows the NF of the receive stage to be 2.189 for the embodiment of . Overall with the new elements added to the IC design the simulated results are comparable to chip ARL03M900 .

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as BPSK Modulator PA Narrowband LNA TR Switch with Additional PA and LNA Enable Input Redesign at 450 MHz ARL11M450 illustrated schematically in . The circuitry adds a DC reference voltage to turn the respective BPSK modulator states positive. The DC bias for the switch states of the BPSK modulator is now 2 5 V to enable and 0 V to disable. The BPSK Modulator is illustrated in the PA with resistor divider bias in Narrowband LNA in with gate enable circuit resistor divider bias and TR Switch in . The footprint of the circuit is still 4 4 mm and shows an example of a layout for the RFIC booster chip design at 450 MHz.

The two port S parameters of the transmit stage of the embodiment of were simulated with the gate enable activated and each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in . illustrates S parameters for the PA redesign in both states of the BPSK modulator with enable ON at 450 MHz. illustrates S parameters for the PA redesign in both states of the BPSK modulator with enable OFF at 450 MHz. At 450 MHz a gain of 14.5 dB was observed for both modulation states an input match of approximately 12.5 and 8.9 dB for both state A versus state B and an output match of approximately 9.5 and 10.5 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TR switch the PA is providing a gain of about 20.5 dB. Overall with the new elements added to the IC design the simulated results are comparable to chip ARL06M450 . When the gate enable is set to OFF all the values for gain input match and output match change significantly.

The two port S parameters of the receive stage of the embodiment of were simulated with the gate enable activated and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the LNA redesign with the TR switch in receive mode and enable ON at 450 MHz. At 450 MHz there was a gain of 11.2 dB an output match of 21.8 dB for and an input match of approximately 7.5 dB. With the additional losses introduced by the TR switch the LNA is providing a gain of about 12.2 dB. When the gate enable is set to OFF as in all the values for gain input match and output match change significantly. illustrates S parameters for the LNA redesign with the TR switch in receive mode and enable OFF at 450 MHz. illustrates NF for the LNA redesign with the TR switch in receive mode at 450 MHz and shows the NF of the receive stage to be 2.512.

Next will be described a preferred embodiment referred to as BPSK Modulator PA and TR Switch Design at 450 MHz ARL12M450 illustrated schematically in . This design is a narrowband cascaded BPSK modulator PA and TR switch designed at 450 MHz on a 3 3 mm tile which did not permit the addition of the ground signal ground GSG pads needed to measure the receive path for the TR switch individually. The BPSK modulator has a positive DC reference of 2 to 5 V to turn ON state A and state B with a 0.0 V for the OFF state while the PA has a 2.7 to 3.0 V supply voltage. The TR switch has a positive DC reference of 2.5 V on the control inputs corresponding to ON and 0 V corresponding to OFF to activate the transmit stage or the receive stage. This TR switch may have higher insertion loss than the other 450 MHz design because the capacitors are smaller due to the limited area available in the die. shows an example of a layout of the design which was used for the simulations .

The two port S parameters of the PA of the embodiment illustrated in were simulated with each of the two BPSK modulation states activated individually and the results are depicted in which illustrates S parameters for the PA in both states of the BPSK modulator at 450 MHz. At 450 MHz we see a gain of 15.3 dB for both modulation states an input match of approximately 14.5 and 9.5 dB for both state A versus state B and an output match of approximately 12.0 and 12.5 dB for state A versus state B. With the additional losses introduced by the BPSK modulator attenuator and TR switch the PA is providing a gain of about 20.3 dB. shows the S parameters of the PA when the TR switch is set to receive at 450 MHz. shows the isolation when the receive paths is turned OFF while which illustrates S parameters for the TR switch at 450 MHz shows the insertion loss and return loss when the TR switch is set to receive.

Table 1 summarizes the 14 designs and highlights the differences between the design variations. Frequency is the first column followed by a check mark in the next four columns to indicate if the design has a BPSK modulator PA LNA or TR Switch. All designs contain at least the BPSK modulator and PA. Next the polarity of the control signals for the BPSK modulator and TR switch is indicated as a plus or minus. The next two columns contain checks if the designs have enables on the amplifiers or if they have the robust bias supply current mirror design. Lastly the package column indicates if they are 68 65 mil designs or 95 65 mil designs for the 3 3 or 4 4 mm packages.

The foregoing details the design and simulation of 14 different versions of a RFIC booster chip and its individual elements on GaAs. However the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described herein. The designs incorporate a transmit stage made up of a BPSK modulator and PA and may contain a receive stage made up of an LNA. The designs may include a TR switch to activate either the transmit or receive path. Designs were simulated at 450 900 and 2400 MHz. The simulations show that the gains and input matches of both stages usually fall within desired ranges however the LNAs often have a poor input match in order to minimize the NF.

As used herein the terminology shunt means a portion of a circuit which allows electric current to pass around another point or another subcircuit in the circuit using a low resistance or conductor in parallel with the other subcircuit to provide a path for the current to be diverted.

The following are a list of symbols abbreviations and acronyms used herein and there corresponding meanings 

