---

title: Setting up a communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: An access network (AN) periodically broadcasts, to at least one user equipment (UE) served by the AN, a message requesting the at least one UE, whenever the at least one UE determines to perform a given type of transmission, (i) to measure a reverse-link channel upon which the transmission is to be performed, and (ii) to include results of the measurement within the transmission. A given UE receives the periodically broadcasted message from the AN and determines to perform the given type of transmission. The given UE refrains from measuring the reverse-link channel, as instructed by the AN, based on the data being associated with a communication session of a given type. The given UE transmits the data to the AN. If the data transmission omits the requested measurement results, the AN selects a transmission format for subsequent transmissions of the given UE based on the omission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08498212&OS=08498212&RS=08498212
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08498212
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100518
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 180 634 entitled SETTING UP A DELAY SENSITIVE COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed May 22 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to setting up a communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment an access network AN periodically broadcasts to at least one user equipment UE served by the AN a message requesting the at least one UE whenever the at least one UE determines to perform a given type of transmission i to measure a reverse link channel upon which the transmission is to be performed and ii to include results of the measurement within the transmission. A given UE receives the periodically broadcasted message from the AN and determines to perform the given type of transmission. The given UE refrains from measuring the reverse link channel as instructed by the AN based on the data being associated with a communication session of a given type. The given UE transmits the data to the AN. If the data transmission omits the requested measurement results the AN selects a transmission format for subsequent transmissions of the given UE based on the omission.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the call.

User Equipments UEs in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN e.g. the RAN may be in either an idle mode or a radio resource control RRC connected mode.

Based on UE mobility and activity while in a RRC connected mode the RAN may direct UEs to transition between a number of RRC sub states namely CELL PCH URA PCH CELL FACH and CELL DCH states which may be characterized as follows 

Accordingly URA PCH State or CELL PCH State corresponds to a dormant state where the UE periodically wakes up to check a paging indicator channel PICH and if needed the associated downlink paging channel PCH and it may enter CELL FACH state to send a Cell Update message for the following event cell reselection periodical cell update uplink data transmission paging response re entered service area. In CELL FACH State the UE may send messages on the random access channel RACH and may monitor a forward access channel FACH . The FACH carries downlink communication from the RAN and is mapped to a secondary common control physical channel S CCPCH . From CELL FACH State the UE may enter CELL DCH state after a traffic channel TCH has been obtained based on messaging in CELL FACH state. A table showing conventional dedicated traffic channel DTCH to transport channel mappings in radio resource control RRC connected mode is in Table 1 as follows 

Referring to UE determines whether to conduct a GPRS communication session . For example the determination of may correspond to the startup of a push to talk PTT application on UE if the GPRS communication session corresponds to a group PTT call e.g. a multicast call etc. . If UE determines to conduct a GPRS communication session UE is required to activate a PDP context for the session. Thus UE configures an Activate PDP Context Request message that includes information related to UE for the GPRS communication session . For example the Activate PDP Context Request message may be configured to include the Requested QoS for the session an access point name APN of the GGSN e.g. which may be obtained after a DNS query etc. If the PDP Address to which packets are addressed during the GPRS communication session is dynamically assigned by the GGSN in the Activate PDP Context Request message the PDP Address field is empty because the PDP context for UE s session has not yet been activated.

After configuring the Activate PDP Context Request message in UE sends the configured Activate PDP Request message to the SGSN via the RAN . The SGSN receives the Activate PDP Context Request message and sends a Create PDP Context Request message to the GGSN . The GGSN receives the Create PDP Context Request message from the SGSN and activates a PDP context for UE s communication session . Both SGSN and GGSN may retrieve the subscribed QoS profile from HLR and modify the requested QoS for the PDP context. The activation of the PDP context in includes assigning a PDP address for UE s communication session e.g. an IPv6 address . The GGSN sends a Create PDP Context Accept message back to the SGSN which indicates that the Create PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication session. The SGSN sends a RAB assignment request for UE s communication session based on the PDP context to the RAN . For example the SGSN may instruct the RAN with regard to a given level of QoS resources for allocating to UE during the communication session using the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment Request which contains the QoS requirements on UE s communication link. The RAN receives the RAB assignment request and sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication session based on the RAB parameters . UE receives the Radio Bearer Setup message configures the Radio Bearer accordingly and sends a Radio Bearer Setup Complete message to the RAN . The RAN then sends a RAB Assignment Response message back to the SGSN . At this point the SGSN sends an Activate PDP Context Accept message to UE via the RAN which indicates that the Activate PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication session.

After receiving the Activate PDP Context Accept message in e.g. which conveys the PDP address to be used for the session UE may begin to send and receive messages related to the established communication session .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while the PDP context can indicate the PDP type e.g. primary or secondary PDP parameters e.g. ToS APN QoS PDP address etc. identifiers e.g. NSAPI TI TEID etc. and or other parameters conventional PDP contexts do not include information related to the application or service associated with the GPRS communication session being activated and are supported by UE . For example if the GPRS communication session corresponds to the signaling of a PTT call that UE wishes to initiate or join the signaling of PTT call is a highly delay sensitive interactive application. However the SGSN and GGSN may recognize that the application is an originating interactive call but do not necessarily have special knowledge with regard to the nature of the application and as such do not know that the session is delay or time sensitive. Thus the SGSN and GGSN do not necessarily grant aggressive resources to UE which can degrade performance for UE s communication session.

Embodiments which will be described below in more detail are directed to conveying application or service specific information from a UE requesting PDP context activation to the RAN SGSN and or GGSN and storing the conveyed application or service specific information in the PDP context. The RAN SGSN and or GGSN may then allocate resources to the requesting UE for the communication session based at least in part on the application or service specific information.

Accordingly illustrate a process for activating a PDP context according to an embodiment of the invention. In particular illustrate a manner of activating a PDP context for a given GPRS communication service and or application that is configured to include application or service specific information related to potential sessions invoked for the service and or application.

Referring to UE determines whether to active a PDP context . For example the determination of may be performed when UE powers up even if UE does not wish to immediately join or initiate a PTT call or other delay sensitive application such that UE determines to activate the PDP context for the application and or service even in the absence of an immediate desire to conduct a communication session for the application and or service. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the PDP context activation may be a preemptive activation to a particular service or application that occurs prior to a setup of a communication session involving the particular service or application. For example the preemptive activation may occur when UE powers up such that the RAN SGSN and or GGSN is aware that UE is active for the particular service and or application even when UE is not currently engaged in or requesting initiation of a communication session.

After determining to activate the PDP context for the given GPRS communication session service and or application in UE determines if possible application or service specific information related to the GPRS communication service and or application . As used herein application or service specific information is defined as any information related to a service or application supported by UE . With regard to the group PTT call example the application or service specific information may correspond to recognition that UE is a group member of one or more PTT groups.

In UE determines whether to convey the application or service specific information determined in to the SGSN and or the GGSN . For example if the GPRS communication service and or application is not delay sensitive then UE may determine not to send application specific information in and the process may advance to of as described above. Otherwise if UE determines to convey the application or service specific information determined in to the SGSN and or the GGSN e.g. if the GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive etc. then the process advances to .

In UE configures an Activate PDP Context Request message that includes information related to UE for the GPRS communication service and or application similar to of . For example the Activate PDP Context Request message may be configured to include UE s an access point name APN of the GGSN e.g. which may be obtained after a DNS query etc. In the Activate PDP Context Request message the PDP Address field to which packets are addressed during sessions invoked for the GPRS communication service and or application is empty because the PDP context for UE s service and or application has not yet been activated.

However in of the Activate PDP Context Request message is further configured to indicate the application or service specific information related to the GPRS communication service and or application that is determined in of . The application or service specific information can be included within the Activate PDP Context Request message in a number of ways. For example one or more fields within the Activate PDP Context Request message itself can be modified to include a flag that indicates the application or service specific information.

In a more specific example UE can configure the Activate PDP Context Request message e.g. for primary PDP context and or the Activate Secondary PDP Context Request e.g. for secondary PDP context in to include special QoS configuration s such that the GGSN and SGSN can uniquely identify UE within the operator s network based on the special configuration. Also since the SGSN will pass the QoS to the RNC at the RAN in the RAB Assignment Request message utilizing the RAB Parameter field e.g. see below the RNC or RAN can also identify UE based on the special QoS configuration and hence allocate UTRAN resources required by the multimedia application e.g. aggressive UTRAN DRX CYCLE which is used to determine the paging cycle at UE .

In yet another example in UE can select a reserved NSAPI e.g. such as 0 to 4 which are currently prohibited and not used by standard and include the reserved NSAPI in the Activate PDP Context Request and or Activate Secondary PDP Context Request. As in the previous example the GGSN and SGSN will read the message s and be able to uniquely identify the reserved NSAPI as being for a particular multimedia application and or service e.g. such as one that is known to require a high level or aggressive level of QoS . Also since the RAB ID in the RAB Assignment Request e.g. see below is mandated to be the same value of NSAPI the RAN can identify UE based on the RAB ID.

In an alternative embodiment special or predetermined bits can be embedded in the NSAPI information element IE . The NSAPI IE is 8 bits where the first 4 LSB are used to carry the NSAPI and the last 4 LSB are spare bits. Thus in this example UE can utilize the 4 spare bits in the NSAPI IE for the SGSN and GGSN to identify UE . Since RAB ID IE NSAPI IE per standard the RAN can identify UE and can assign aggressive UTRAN DRX CYCLE to UE .

In yet another alternative example an APN is a string parameter included in the Activate PDP Context Request used to select the GGSN . Accordingly in UE can put a keyword in the APN for identifying UE has having a high QoS requirement. The GGSN and SGSN can receive the APN in the Activate PDP Context Request. However the RAN may not necessarily be informed of UE s high QoS requirement for a particular application and or service in this example e.g. although the RAN can be instructed to allocate an aggressive QoS setting via the RAB Assignment Request message from the SGSN in below . For example the SGSN may override the Requested QoS in the Activate PDP Context Request and can send the new or overridden QoS to the serving RNC at the RAN within the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment message. The new QoS may contain configurations for the serving RNC to uniquely identify UE subscribing to a particular application e.g. a PTT service or more specifically the application s RAB.

After configuring the Activate PDP Context Request message in UE sends the configured Activate PDP Request message to the SGSN via the RAN . The SGSN receives the Activate PDP Context Request message and sends a Create PDP Context Request message which also includes the application or service specific information to the GGSN . The GGSN receives the Create PDP Context Request message from the SGSN and activates a PDP context for UE s communication service and or application . The activation of the PDP context in includes assigning a PDP address for UE s communication service and or application e.g. an IPv6 address . The activation of also includes storing within the PDP context the application or service specific information for UE s communication service and or application.

The GGSN sends a Create PDP Context Accept message back to the SGSN which indicates that the Create PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address and application or service specific information for UE s communication service and or application. The SGSN generates the RAB assignment request and includes within the RAB assignment request information from which the RAN e.g. more specifically the serving RNC at the RAN can determine the application or service specific information of UE . Turning to the SGSN then sends the RAB assignment request to the RAN . For example in the RAB assignment request the SGSN may instruct the RAN with regard to a given level of QoS resources for allocating to UE during sessions invoked for the communication service and or application using the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment Request which contains the QoS requirements on UE s communication link. If the application or service specific information indicates to the SGSN in this example that a high level of QoS resources are required the SGSN can instruct the RAN to allocate a higher amount of QoS resources to UE than would otherwise be allocated in . In another example a frequency at which UE wakes up e.g. a DRX cycle can be increased if the application or service specific information indicates to the SGSN in this example that UE s communication service and or application may benefit from a more aggressive paging cycle due to delay sensitivity of the service and or application.

Accordingly in the serving RNC at the RAN evaluates the application or service specific information included in the Activate PDP Context Request message from UE e.g. based on RAB parameters in the RAB assignment request that indicate the application or service specific information to trigger special handling protocols by the RAN to determine if UE s GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive. If the serving RNC of the RAN determines that UE s GPRS communication service and or application is not delay sensitive in then the process advances to and the RAN sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication service and or application based on the RAB parameters . Alternatively if the serving RNC of the RAN determines that UE s GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive in then the process advances to and the RAN associates UE with a delay sensitive application and or service a recognition of which can later be used for special call handling procedures relating to UE as will be described below in greater detail.

Accordingly the RAN receives the RAB assignment request and sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication service and or application based on the RAB parameters . UE receives the Radio Bearer Setup message and sends a Radio Bearer Setup Complete message to the RAN . The RAN then sends a RAB Assignment Response message back to the SGSN .

At this point the SGSN sends an Activate PDP Context Accept message to UE via the RAN which indicates that the Activate PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication service and or application. While not shown in after receiving the Activate PDP Context Accept message e.g. which conveys the PDP address to be used for the service and or application UE may begin to send and receive messages related to a session established for the activated GPRS communication service and or application.

Accordingly as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art FIGS. A and B show how the RAN e.g. a serving RNC of the RAN the SGSN and or the GGSN can be informed by the UE with regard to UE being active for a particular application and or service. In particular the RAN can detect an association of UE or the RAB for UE with a delay sensitive service and or application such that special call handling protocols can be applied to setting up communication session involving UE as will be discussed below in more detail with respect to .

Accordingly a process by which a server arbitrated communication session can be set up is described with respect to . In particular illustrate a server arbitrated session set up process wherein the system corresponds to a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS that uses Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA . However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how can be modified to be directed to communication sessions in accordance with protocols other than W CDMA.

Referring to through generally correspond to blocks through respectively of FIG. 4 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 645 entitled ANNOUNCING A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed May 22 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Accordingly a detailed discussion of has been omitted for the sake of brevity. However portions of are discussed in more detail below with respect to . Also in certain channels upon which messages can be exchanged between UEs and the RAN vary e.g. between DCH E DCH RACH and or FACH based on the state of the UE with UE state transitions between CELL FACH and CELL DCH described in more detail within U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 624 entitled TRANSITIONING A USER EQUIPMENT UE TO A DEDICATED CHANNEL STATE DURING SETUP OF A COMMUNICATION SESSION DURING A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM assigned to the same assignee as the subject application by Bongyong Song and Yin Hao Lain and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Accordingly illustrates a portion of the process of wherein certain operations in corresponding to operations in are numbered with the same reference numbers while additional and or intervening procedures not explicitly referred to in are also shown.

Referring to before the steps corresponding to the process of begin the RAN broadcasts a periodic System Information message that includes System Information Blocks SIBs which help UEs communicate with the RAN A. For example SIB Type 11 and SIB Type 12 include fields or information elements IEs to instruct UEs with regard to measurement control. In particular if the IE intra frequency reporting quantity for RACH reporting and the IE Maximum number of reported cells on RACH are included in SIB Types 11 12 per standard a given UE may optionally append RACH measurements in the Cell Update CU message sent by UE to its serving RNC at the RAN . If the given UE is requested to include RACH measurements in the cell update message it will be appreciated that transmission of the cell update message is delayed because UE has to spend a given amount of time making the RACH measurements which also delays traffic channel setup. Such a delay may degrade performance especially for delay sensitive applications and or services. Also the cell update message normally occupies most RLC payload bits configured for CCCH over RACH including the RACH measurements in the cell update message increases the size further which means the cell update message including RACH measurements will have less coding protection because more parity bits will be punctured to hold the additional data. In particular the RACH measurements contained in the cell update message can include measured CPICH Ec No or CPICH RSCP or Pathloss for current cell and other monitored cells as directed in SIB Type 11 12 .

Referring to a given UE UE is in a URA PCH state . While UE is in URA PCH state a user of UE requests initiation of a communication session e.g. a PTT session or other time sensitive or delay sensitive communication session . Accordingly UE transitions to CELL FACH state . Next assume that the SIB Type 11 12 within the System Information message of A contains measurement control information element for RACH measurement. Accordingly UE spends a given amount of time measuring the RACH A and then configures a cell update message to include an indication of the RACH measurements A. UE then sends the cell update message on the RACH that includes UE s UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI U RNTI . The U RNTI is well known in the art and corresponds to an identification assigned to a UE e.g. during power up or upon transition to a new RNC serving area that uniquely identifies a UE within a particular subnet or set of sectors controlled by a single RNC of the RAN .

Upon receiving the cell update message including the RACH measurement indication in the RAN selects a TTI format for UE A. As will be described in greater detail with respect to assuming that a UE support multiple TTI formats the RAN may select A either a short TTI format e.g. 2 ms or a long TTI format e.g. 10 ms with the long TTI format being selected if the RACH measurements are below a threshold and the short TTI format being selected if the RACH measurements are not below the threshold. As will be appreciated a transport channel e.g. DCH E DCH etc. delivers one MAC packet data unit PDU to L1 every transmission time interval TTI . Different transport channel may have different TTIs. The RAN can use the Radio Bearer RB control procedures e.g. Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Transport Channel Reconfiguration or Physical Channel Reconfiguration to modify the TTI allocated to a given UE. The short TTI is more aggressive than the long TTI but the long TTI has more reliability.

In the RAN configures and transmits a Cell Update Confirm message to UE on the FACH. The cell update confirm message of assigns the selected TTI format from A to UE . Next UE and the RAN engage in a L1 synchronization procedure. For example the L1 synchronization procedure can occur on uplink and downlink dedicated physical control channels DPCCH . The DPCCH is a physical channel on which signaling is transmitted both in the uplink direction by UE and in the downlink direction by the RAN . Accordingly during the L1 synchronization procedure the RAN sends signaling messages on the downlink DPCCH to UE and UE sends signaling messages on the uplink DPCCH to the RAN . Alternatively the L1 synchronization procedure on downlink may be performed over a Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel F DPCH which was introduced in 3GPP Release 6. The F DPCH allows a Node B of the RAN to time multiplex up to ten 10 users DPCCH signaling using a single Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor OVSF code and thereby improves the utilization of OVSF codes on the downlink. F DPCH can be used when the HS DSCH is configured and the DCH is not configured. Thus when the F DPCH is available UE will generally attempt to perform the L1 synchronization procedure over the F DPCH.

When the L1 synchronization procedure is complete assume that UE transitions to CELL DCH state e.g. based on a reconfiguration message sent by the RAN which is based in part on measurement reports sent from UE to the RAN indicative of RACH traffic and transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message a Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and or a Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer to be reconfigured in the Cell Update Confirm message of to the RAN on the uplink DCH or E DCH . Because UE now has access to the E DCH UE also sends a call request message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN and the RAN forwards the call request message to the application server and so on. As will be appreciated the messages transmitted in and are on transport blocks based on the assigned TTI from the cell update confirm message of A.

Referring to the application server processes a call request message from a call originator UE and generates an announce message for announcing the communication session to target UE and forwards the announce message to the RAN . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the RAN cannot simply transmit the announce message to UE immediately after receiving the call announce message from the application server . Rather the RAN waits for a next DRX cycle or paging cycle at which target UE is expected to be monitoring for pages . At this point assume that a given target UE UE is in a URA PCH state and is monitoring the PCH and or PICH in accordance with a given DRX cycle. While not shown in if UE already had an active traffic channel TCH the RAN could simply send the announce message on the already allocated TCH. After the RAN waits for the DRX cycle or paging cycle of UE a type 1 paging message is sent to UE .

Next assume that the SIB Type 11 12 within the System Information message of B requests UEs to include RACH measurements in cell update messages. Accordingly UE spends a given amount of time measuring the RACH B and then configures a cell update message to include an indication of the RACH measurements B. UE then sends the cell update message on the RACH that includes UE s UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI U RNTI .

Upon receiving the cell update message including the RACH measurement indication in the RAN selects a TTI format for UE B. As will be described in greater detail with respect to the RAN may select B either a short TTI format e.g. 2 ms or a long TTI format e.g. 10 ms with the long TTI format being selected if the RACH measurements are below a threshold and the short TTI format being selected if the RACH measurements are not below the threshold. As will be appreciated a transport channel e.g. DCH E DCH etc. delivers one MAC PDU to L1 every transmission time interval TTI . Different transport channel may have different TTIs. The RAN can use the Radio Bearer RB control procedures e.g. Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Transport Channel Reconfiguration or Physical Channel Reconfiguration to modify the TTI allocated to a given UE. The short TTI is more aggressive than the long TTI and permits higher data rates to be achieved but the long TTI has more reliability.

In the RAN configures and transmits a Cell Update Confirm message to UE . The cell update confirm message of also assigns the selected TTI format from B to UE . Next UE and the RAN engage in a L1 synchronization procedure. For example the L1 synchronization procedure can occur on uplink and downlink dedicated physical control channels DPCCH . The DPCCH is a physical channel on which signaling is transmitted both in the uplink direction by UE and in the downlink direction by the RAN . Accordingly during the L1 synchronization procedure the RAN sends signaling messages on the downlink DPCCH to UE and UE sends signaling messages on the uplink DPCCH to the RAN . Alternatively the L1 synchronization procedure on downlink may be performed over a Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel F DPCH which was introduced in 3GPP Release 6.

When the L1 synchronization procedure is complete assume that UE transitions to CELL DCH state e.g. based on a reconfiguration message sent by the RAN which is based in part on measurement reports sent from UE to the RAN indicative of RACH traffic and transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message a Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and or a Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer to be reconfigured in the Cell Update Confirm message of to the RAN on the uplink DCH or E DCH .

At some point after receiving the cell update confirm response message in the RAN sends the announce message to UE on the HS DSCH . After receiving the announce message UE can auto accept the announce message e.g. if the announced call is an emergency call can auto reject the announce message e.g. if UE is already engaged in another session or can allow a user of UE to determine whether to accept the announced call. The delay during which UE processes the announce message to determine whether to accept the call corresponds to block in . For convenience of explanation assume that UE determines to accept the announced call and as such UE sends a call accept message on the uplink E DCH to the RAN which then forwards the call accept message to the application server . As will be appreciated the messages transmitted in and are on transport blocks based on the assigned TTI from the cell update confirm message configured in B.

As will be appreciated from a review of the RAN may assign or allocate the short TTI when possible to increase the effective data rate of a UE so long as the UE reports a RACH measurement that indicates measured CPICH Ec No or CPICH RSCP or Pathloss of a current serving cell is below a threshold. However this increases the risk that data will be lost and also reduces the coverage area for the call e.g. see . Accordingly embodiments of the invention are to allocating the long TTI to UEs that are expected to be engaged in a delay sensitive communication session that does not require a high data rate and also to permitting UEs to transmit cell update messages without the RACH measurements so that the cell update message can be sent more quickly.

Accordingly illustrates a modified portion of the process of in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Referring to before the steps corresponding to the modified portion of the process of begin the RAN broadcasts a periodic System Information message that includes System Information Blocks SIBs which help UEs communicate with the RAN A. A of may generally correspond to A of and or B of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity except to note that it may again be assumed that the SIB Type 11 12 within the System Information message of A requests UEs to include RACH measurements in cell update messages.

Referring to a given UE UE is in a URA PCH state . While UE is in URA PCH state a user of UE requests initiation of a communication session e.g. a PTT session or other time sensitive or delay sensitive communication session . Accordingly UE transitions to CELL FACH state . Next UE determines whether the call request is associated with a delay sensitive service and or application A. If UE determines that the call request is not associated with a delay sensitive service and or application in A the process advances to A of . Otherwise if UE determines that the call request is associated with a delay sensitive service and or application in A the process advances to A. In A UE determines whether the call request is likely to require a relatively high data rate such that the short TTI is likely to be required for good performance. If UE determines that the call request is likely to require a high data rate in A the process advances to A of . Otherwise if UE determines that the call request is not likely to require a high data rate in A the process advances to A.

Referring to in A UE refrains from making RACH measurements as in A of and instead configures the cell update message without the RACH measurements. Thus it will be appreciated that the cell update message of A can be configured more quickly than the cell update message of A because UE need not wait to complete the RACH measurements. UE in this case ignores the request in the SIB parameters from the System Information message at A to include the RACH measurements within the cell update message.

In an alternative embodiment UE refrains from making RACH measurements in A as noted above. However instead of configuring the cell update message without any RACH measurements the UE can configure the cell update message to include fake RACH measurements that are expected to prompt the RAN to allocate the long TTI format. In either case UE skips the RACH measurement process and omits true RACH measurements in A although some type of RACH measurements could still be included in the cell update message in this alternative embodiment.

UE then sends the cell update message on the RACH that includes UE s UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI U RNTI with the cell update message omitting the RACH measurements e.g. or including fake RACH measurements configured to prompt a long TTI allocation . Upon receiving the cell update message including the RACH measurement indication in the RAN selects a TTI format for UE A.

As will be described in greater detail with respect to the RAN selects A the long TTI format e.g. 10 ms instead of the short TTI format e.g. 2 ms because the cell update message of does not include RACH measurements e.g. or includes fake RACH measurements configured to prompt a long TTI allocation . In other words the RAN can interpret a cell update message without RACH measurements as a request for an initial allocation of the long TTI. Alternatively the RAN can interpret a cell update message with fake RACH measurements as a request for an initial allocation of the long TTI assuming the fake RACH measurements are properly configured to prompt the long TTI allocation 

In the RAN configures and transmits a Cell Update Confirm message to UE . The cell update confirm message of also assigns the selected long TTI format from A to UE . Next UE and the RAN engage in a L1 synchronization procedure. For example the L1 synchronization procedure can occur on uplink and downlink dedicated physical control channels DPCCH . The DPCCH is a physical channel on which signaling is transmitted both in the uplink direction by UE and in the downlink direction by the RAN . Accordingly during the L1 synchronization procedure the RAN sends signaling messages on the downlink DPCCH to UE and UE sends signaling messages on the uplink DPCCH to the RAN . Alternatively the L1 synchronization procedure on downlink may be performed over a Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel F DPCH which was introduced in 3GPP Release 6. The F DPCH allows a Node B of the RAN to time multiplex up to ten 10 users DPCCH signaling using a single Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor OVSF code and thereby improves the utilization of OVSF codes on the downlink. F DPCH can be used when the HS DSCH is configured and the DCH is not configured. Thus when the F DPCH is available UE will generally attempt to perform the L1 synchronization procedure over the F DPCH.

When the L1 synchronization procedure is complete assume that UE transitions to CELL DCH state e.g. based on a reconfiguration message sent by the RAN which is based in part on measurement reports sent from UE to the RAN indicative of RACH traffic and transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message a Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and or a Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer to be reconfigured in the Cell Update Confirm message of to the RAN on the uplink DCH or E DCH . Because UE now has access to the E DCH UE also sends a call request message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN and the RAN forwards the call request message to the application server and so on. As will be appreciated the messages transmitted in and are on transport blocks based on the assigned long TTI from the cell update confirm message configured in A.

As will be appreciated by interpreting the cell update message without the RACH measurements or with fake RACH measurements as a request for the long TTI the RAN can allocate the more reliable TTI for delay sensitive applications that do not require a high data rate and the UE need not waste time measuring the RACH before sending the cell update message.

Referring to at target UE assume that before the steps corresponding to another modified portion of the process of begin the RAN broadcasts a periodic System Information message that includes System Information Blocks SIBs which help UEs communicate with the RAN B. B of may generally correspond to A of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity except to note that it may again be assumed that the SIB Type 11 12 within the System Information message of B requests UEs to include RACH measurements in cell update messages.

Referring to the application server processes a call request message from a call originator UE and generates an announce message for announcing the communication session to target UE and forwards the announce message to the RAN . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the RAN cannot simply transmit the announce message to UE immediately after receiving the call announce message from the application server . Rather the RAN waits for a next DRX cycle or paging cycle at which target UE is expected to be monitoring for pages . At this point assume that a given target UE UE is in a URA PCH state and is monitoring the PCH and or PICH in accordance with a given DRX cycle. While not shown in if UE already had an active traffic channel TCH the RAN could simply send the announce message on the already allocated TCH. After the RAN waits for the DRX cycle or paging cycle of UE a type 1 paging message is sent to UE . UE receives the type 1 paging message and transitions to CELL FACH state .

Next UE determines whether the call request is associated with a delay sensitive service and or application B. If UE determines that the call request is not associated with a delay sensitive service and or application in B the process advances to B of . Otherwise if UE determines that the call request is associated with a delay sensitive service and or application in B the process advances to B. In B UE determines whether the call request is likely to require a relatively high data rate such that the short TTI is likely to be required for good performance. If UE determines that the call request is likely to require a high data rate in B the process advances to B of . Otherwise if UE determines that the call request is not likely to require a high data rate in B the process advances to B.

Referring to in B UE refrains from making RACH measurements as in B of and instead configures the cell update message without the RACH measurements. Thus it will be appreciated that the cell update message of B can be configured more quickly than the cell update message of B because UE need not wait to complete the RACH measurements. UE in this case ignores the request in the SIB parameters from the System Information message at B to include the RACH measurements within the cell update message.

In an alternative embodiment UE refrains from making RACH measurements in B as noted above. However instead of configuring the cell update message without any RACH measurements the UE can configure the cell update message to include fake RACH measurements that are expected to prompt the RAN to allocate the long TTI format. In either case UE skips the RACH measurement process and omits true RACH measurements in B although some type of RACH measurements could still be included in the cell update message in this alternative embodiment.

UE then sends the cell update message on the RACH that includes UE s UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier RNTI U RNTI with the cell update message omitting the RACH measurements e.g. or including fake RACH measurements configured to prompt a long TTI allocation . Upon receiving the cell update message including the RACH measurement indication in the RAN selects a TTI format for UE B.

As will be described in greater detail with respect to the RAN selects B the long TTI format e.g. 10 ms instead of the short TTI format e.g. 2 ms because the cell update message of does not include RACH measurements e.g. or includes fake RACH measurements configured to prompt a long TTI allocation . In other words the RAN can interpret a cell update message without RACH measurements as a request for an initial allocation of the long TTI. Alternatively the RAN can interpret a cell update message with fake RACH measurements as a request for an initial allocation of the long TTI assuming the fake RACH measurements are properly configured to prompt the long TTI allocation 

In the RAN configures and transmits a Cell Update Confirm message to UE . The cell update confirm message of also assigns the selected long TTI format from B to UE . Next UE and the RAN engage in a L1 synchronization procedure. For example the L1 synchronization procedure can occur on uplink and downlink dedicated physical control channels DPCCH . The DPCCH is a physical channel on which signaling is transmitted both in the uplink direction by UE and in the downlink direction by the RAN . Accordingly during the L1 synchronization procedure the RAN sends signaling messages on the downlink DPCCH to UE and UE sends signaling messages on the uplink DPCCH to the RAN . Alternatively the L1 synchronization procedure on downlink may be performed over a Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel F DPCH which was introduced in 3GPP Release 6.

When the L1 synchronization procedure is complete assume that UE transitions to CELL DCH state e.g. based on a reconfiguration message sent by the RAN which is based in part on measurement reports sent from UE to the RAN indicative of RACH traffic and transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message a Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and or a Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer to be reconfigured in the Cell Update Confirm message of to the RAN on the uplink DCH or E DCH .

At some point after receiving the cell update confirm response message in the RAN sends the announce message to UE on the HS DSCH . After receiving the announce message UE can auto accept the announce message e.g. if the announced call is an emergency call can auto reject the announce message e.g. if UE is already engaged in another session or can allow a user of UE to determine whether to accept the announced call. The delay during which UE processes the announce message to determine whether to accept the call corresponds to block in . For convenience of explanation assume that UE determines to accept the announced call and as such UE sends a call accept message on the uplink E DCH to the RAN which then forwards the call accept message to the application server . As will be appreciated the messages transmitted in and are on transport blocks based on the assigned long TTI from the cell update confirm message configured in B of .

As will be appreciated by interpreting the cell update message without the RACH measurements or with fake RACH measurements as a request for the long TTI the RAN can allocate the more reliable TTI for delay sensitive applications that do not require a high data rate and the UE need not waste time measuring the RACH before sending the cell update message.

Also the RAN can transition the given UE between states C and C as the RAN subsequently monitors the number of E DCH HARQ transmissions such that the a transition from state C to state C can occur when the average number of E DCH HARQ transmissions for a packet rises to or above the given threshold or a transition from state C to state C can occur when the average number of E DCH HARQ transmissions for a packet drops below the given threshold. Alternatively in an example a transition from state C to state C may only be permitted if the RAN determines that the given UE is not associated with a delay sensitive application e.g. based on the association from of a previous execution of . Thus the long TTI can be retained for UEs participating in delay sensitive applications to increase their respective reliability.

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been described with respect to terminology that is specific to CDMA W CDMA and or EV DO protocols it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be modified to comply with other wireless telecommunication protocols such as UMTS LTE and or SAE in an example. For example in a UMTS implementation the above described call flows are still generally applicable. However the terminology of PDP context RNC or RNC SGSN and GGSN may instead be described as Evolved Packet System EPS bearer eNodeB Serving Gateway GW and packet data network PDN GW respectively. Accordingly the technical modifications to conform the CDMA implementation described above to a UMTS implementation are well within the abilities of one of ordinary skill in the art.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

