---

title: Application store concierge
abstract: An application sequence may be composed in response to a user query. The application sequence may be based upon user data accessed by the application concierge service. Each application within the personalized chain of applications may request and receive data from the application concierge service about the other applications within the chain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751524&OS=08751524&RS=08751524
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08751524
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
Application stores enable eligible users to access applications presented by the Application store. The application store provides a one stop shop for users searching for applications ranging anywhere from media applications to applications providing stock market services. Application stores allow users to search the available applications using a keyword search or using a free form text search to find a desired application.

To satisfy a user query an application store typically returns multiple applications to the user as search results. The applications returned in the search results may or may not be able to perform functions desired by the user. In many instances the apps returned in the search results will only perform part of the functionality desired by the user. In that case the user may have to search for and install multiple different applications in order to perform a desired function requiring the user to install and enter personal information multiple times into the multiple applications. Each application may also require the user to enter information received from a first application into a second application a third application and or a fourth application. This can be time consuming frustrating for the user and may also introduce errors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure describes composing one or more proposed application sequences in response to a user query.

In an exemplary implementation an application concierge service is utilized in a search environment. The application concierge service composes a personalized chain of applications in response to a user query that may be utilized by a user to perform a task. The personalized chain of applications may be composed based upon user data accessed by the application concierge service. For example the application concierge service may have access to user data including personal information e.g. email phone number list of applications calendar and application usage information social information e.g. list of contacts favorites friends and the like and secure information e.g. bank account information credit card information social security information and the like . This access enables the application concierge service to present the user with a best fit scenario composed of multiple applications to perform a desired task in response to the user query. In some instances each application within the personalized chain of applications may request and receive data from the application concierge service about the other applications within the chain to facilitate completion of the task without requiring the user to re enter information multiple times into multiple applications.

When users perform a search they are often trying to perform a task or are looking for an answer to a question. A response to a user query may require the use of several applications to perform the task or answer the question. For example to plan a night out the user may need to access a map a movie application and a restaurant application. Using multiple applications in response to a user search may present many obstacles. For example the user may not have one or more of the needed applications installed on his or her device. Even if the user has the needed applications installed the applications may be unaware of each other and therefore are not privy to any information the user may have provided any of the other applications. This may result in the user supplying the same or similar information to several applications. This is both frustrating and time consuming for the user.

A method and process to compose a customized application sequence in response to a user query is described. More specifically an exemplary process constructs a chain of applications in response to a user query based upon user data supplemental data and previously defined application chains. The application concierge store service enables the chain of applications to be customized to the user and provide the applications information without requiring further user input.

The computing device may connect to one or more networks s and is associated with a user . The computing device as described herein may be implemented in various types of systems or networks. For example the computing device may be a stand alone system or may be a part of without limitation a client server system a peer to peer computer network a distributed network a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network a storage area network and the like.

The network s represent any type of communications network s including but not limited to wire based networks and or wireless networks.

The computing device enables the user to operate a browser or other client application to interact with an application concierge service on server s . For instance the user may launch the browser to navigate to the application concierge service and input a search term or search terms constituting a user query into the application concierge service . The user query may be in a natural language and is sent over network s to server s . The user input is received through any of a variety of user input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a mouse a touch screen a stylus or a microphone.

In some instances the application concierge service may be a part of an application store such as the Windows Mobile application store iTunes application store or Android marketplace. In other instances the application concierge service may be a separate stand alone service. In either instance the application concierge service may itself have a client side concierge application installed on the computing device to facilitate interaction with the application concierge service . Alternatively the application concierge service may be accessed via the browser without the need for a client side concierge application.

The application concierge service also referred herein as the service may include without limitation an application data service and an application concierge application sequencer . The application data service includes an application store comprising numerous applications to perform any number of tasks in response to the user query. For example if the user requests a night out on the town the application data service may include applications pertaining to restaurants entertainment transportation and the like. The application concierge application sequencer combines one or more applications in a workflow determined to be the best chain of applications to respond to the user query. In other words the determined workflow comprises a step by step execution of a process to satisfy the user query. For example using the same request a night out on the town the application concierge data service may retrieve a restaurant application an entertainment application and a transportation application. The application concierge application sequencer links the retrieved applications such that the user is presented with the restaurant application the entertainment application and the transportation application in a workflow the application concierge service determines to be the most useful to the user . In one implementation the results are displayed to the user in a results page. In another implementation the user is immediately directed to a first application of the chain.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may store an operating system the application store concierge the application concierge data service the application concierge application sequencer an internal confidence module and a security authorization module . The internal confidence module is an internal scoring mechanism used by the application concierge service to determine the confidence level in a scenario returned to the user. For example if the scenario satisfies or is higher than a preset scoring value the application concierge service may direct the user directly to an Application of the scenario. The authorization module retains secure data associated with the user . The secure data may be used by a chain of applications or by a specific application to complete a transaction desired by the user . The secure data may be encrypted and or may require a security credential e.g. password biometric scan or the like to access. The user may be given the option to opt out of sharing personal and or secure information with the application concierge .

Memory is an example of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. In some examples computer readable media comprises non transitory tangible media. Additional types of computer readable storage media that may be present include but are not limited to phase change memory PRAM SRAM DRAM other types of RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the application concierge service and the computing device respectively. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable storage media.

While the application store concierge is shown to be a component within the server it is to be appreciated that the application store concierge may alternatively be without limitation a component within the computing device and or a standalone component. In one implementation the application concierge data service has access to without limitation one or more application stores a predefined application scenario list and an expert application scenario list . The application store may include one or more applications available to the user in response to a query. The predefined application scenario list may include without limitation a list of predefined scenarios where a scenario includes a collection of applications linked together in a predetermined order. An expert scenario may be a pre established scenario list similar to that of the predefined application scenario list established by an expert in a particular field. Alternatively the application concierge data service may supply an expert application with customization factors to provide an expert scenario.

The server may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage . Any memory described herein may include volatile memory such as RAM nonvolatile memory removable memory and or non removable memory implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures applications program modules emails and or other content. Also any of the processors described herein may include onboard memory in addition to or instead of the memory shown in the figures. The memory may include storage media such as but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory optical storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the respective systems and devices.

The server as described above may be implemented in various types of systems or networks. For example the server may be part of including but is not limited to a data center a server form a client server system a peer to peer computer network a distributed network an enterprise architecture a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network a storage area network and the like. For example in one implementation the server may be associated with a web search engine such as Microsoft s Bing .

Various instructions methods techniques applications and modules described herein may be implemented as computer executable instructions that are executable by one or more computers servers or computing devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. The functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

As illustrated in a response to the user query may include several applications for example as shown in Application Application and Application . The sequence of the applications displayed in may be determined by one or a combination of databases. For example as discussed above with respect to the application concierge data service has access to one or more application stores the predefined application scenario list and the expert application scenario list via the application concierge service . Further the concierge service may supply information e.g. personal or secure information to one or more applications in the chain.

A predefined application scenario list may include without limitation a list of predefined scenarios where a scenario includes a collection of applications linked together in a predetermined order. The predetermined order may have been established by the application concierge service by the applications themselves by the user and or by other users. For example the applications may be designed specifically with other applications in mind. An independent software vendor ISV may upload an application to the concierge application data service . The application may include a microdata format or any other suitable format to describe the service and application program interface API giving the concierge application data service context about what this particular application can do and how the application behaves e.g. inputs and outputs . Such a design enables one application to be aware of another application therefore enabling multiple applications to be linked together in response to a user query. The ISV may also include within the microdata format multiple parameters enabling the applications to be customized to the user . For example without limitation a display color a display layout or a font size.

In another implementation the concierge application data service may access the expert application scenario list . In some instances an expert scenario may be pre established by an expert in a particular field. For example if the user inputs a query taking a trip to Rome this summer the application concierge data service may access the expert scenario application list to find a predefined application combination including applications directed to air travel the best hotels in Rome local restaurants transportation etc. according to one or more experts in the field. In other instances the application concierge data service may prepare a scenario list giving preference to applications that provide an expert s view on a particular subject e.g. an insider s view of bed and breakfasts in the Pacific Northwest or a travel application with expert tips and recommendations for business travelers . Thus a scenario may be an expert scenario because the scenario is pre established by an expert and or because the applications making up the scenario provide expert tips or recommendations.

In either of the foregoing instance the application concierge data service may access an expert scenario application to construct the expert scenario application list supplied to the user . Alternatively the application concierge data service may simply adjust its criteria for recommending application scenarios based on user input requesting an expert scenario. To construct such an application list the application concierge data service may supply user specific details or prompt the user for additional details regarding specific travel plans to provide a customized expert application scenario list. In one implementation the application concierge data service may have access to user data local data and a cached social network . Utilizing this data the application concierge data service may determine that the user has previously established that direct flights are preferable over non direct flights. In addition the user data may include hobbies and locations that the user enjoys visiting. The application concierge data service may supply this information to the expert application and in response the expert application may recommend applications directed to airlines flights sites to see and things to do such as tourist destinations restaurants and or shops consistent with those preferences. Alternatively as noted above the user s preference for expert recommendations may simply be one piece of the user data . In that case the application concierge data service may simply alter the rules it uses to generate the application scenarios to favor scenarios recommended by experts and or applications that provide expert analysis. After constructing the expert scenario application list the expert application may return the list to the user via the application concierge data service . The user may then access the applications included within the expert scenario application list using the functions and features provided by the application store concierge and described herein.

The expert application scenario list may also include color commentary associated with particular recommendations. For example the expert scenario may include an application and commentary directed to a particular hotel in Rome. The commentary may include without limitation the price range of the hotel amenities offered by the hotel proximity of the hotel to desirable landmarks and the like. This commentary may include interactive prompts to solicit additional preference information from the user. Examples of such additional information in the context of planning a trip include the purpose of the trip business vs. pleasure relaxation vs. adventure family vacation vs. romantic getaway etc. the importance of various factors e.g. convenience vs. rating amenities vs. proximity to a certain location etc. or other information that may be useful in customizing the trip to the user s preferences. This additional preference information may also be used to train the application concierge data service to provide the user with more relevant application scenarios in the future.

As discussed above the user may be asked for permission to share particular data with the application concierge service and or may be allowed to opt out of the sharing of the information at any time. Moreover the user may be allowed to grant access to some data e.g. location but not others e.g. social network data . The user data may include without limitation user information such as user preferences the user s calendar and the user s previous application scenario choices installed on the computing device and or application usage data. Utilizing the user data the application concierge data service may access the one or more application stores the predefined list of scenario and or the expert scenario list to present the user with a combination of applications linked together to best fit the user .

In addition the application concierge data service may also access local data and the cached social network when determining the best combination of applications to present to the user in response to a user query. The local data may include weather traffic etc. corresponding to the geographical location associated with the user query. The cached social network includes without limitation a connection to the user s contacts and or social network. The social network may provide the application concierge data service information relating to preferences and schedules of the user s network further enabling the application concierge data service to determine the most appropriate applications to link and present to the user in response to the query.

To utilize the social network the user may be required to grant access to the application concierge service . After granting access the application concierge service will be able to use information such as preferences and feedback of the friends of the user when determining the composition of applications.

The application concierge application sequencer positions and links the applications retrieved by the application in a sequence to respond to the user query. For example Application is positioned first in the application sequence followed by Application and Application . The application concierge application sequencer may automatically initiate Application or may prompt the user to initiate the application chain. If the Application requires additional information Application may ask the application concierge data service . For example if Application needs to access the user s calendar the Application may ask the application concierge data service . If this level of permission has been granted the application concierge data service may access the user data to retrieve the user s calendar. The application concierge data service may then tell or output the calendar information to Application . Alternatively if the user has not previously granted the application concierge data service access to this information the user may be prompted to do so. After Application is complete the application concierge application sequencer may progress to launch Application followed by Application .

In one implementation Application may also provide information or data to Application directly or via the application concierge service thereby reducing the need for user interaction. For example if Application requests and receives the user s calendar the application concierge service may transmit the information from Application to Application providing Application with information already supplied to Application thereby alleviating the need for Application to request duplicate information from the application concierge data service or the user . In some instances Application may not be terminated prior to launching Application and or Application . In other words the applications may run in parallel enabling without limitation the application concierge service to simultaneously search one or more aspects of the user query and or perform multiple portions of a task simultaneously.

The application concierge service may also access the internal confidence module . The internal confidence module assists in the process of mapping applications to a user query. The more information that the application concierge service has about the user and the user s preferences the more confident the application concierge service is in the results returned to the user. For example if the applications linked together to respond to a user query satisfies or is higher than a preset scoring value the application concierge service may direct the user directly to Application . However if the score is lower than the preset scoring value the results may be presented to the user in a results page similar to that of discussed below.

In one implementation the confidence level may increase the more user utilizes the application data service . For example when the user first uses the application data service the service may have very little knowledge about the user. Therefore application scenarios recommended to the user may not be exactly what the user was looking for. However the more user utilizes the application data service the more information that the service may have access to enabling the service to make a more educated recommendation of applications to the user. For example the application data service may learn more as the user modifies suggested application chains and as the user chooses from among suggested application chains.

As illustrated in a scenario may require sensitive information such as banking or credit card information to complete transactions within the application. For example in one implementation the results page presented to the user may indicate the level of personal information required by the combination of applications. A scenario may require highly sensitive information and is therefore highlighted in red. A scenario such as scenario and scenario require less sensitive information and are therefore highlighted in yellow and green respectively. A scenario in green requires little to no personal information while a yellow scenario requires somewhere in the middle of red and green. It is to be appreciated however that any number of levels and or indicators may be used.

The security authorization module may be used by the application concierge service to determine whether they have immediate and unrestricted access to secure personal information. To make this determination the security authorization module may track and retain the use of such personal information throughout the lifetime of the relationship between the user and the application concierge service . For example the first time user is presented with a chain of applications requiring sensitive information such as scenario the application concierge service may request permission from the user prior to divulging personal information. For example if the user would like to purchase movie tickets through Application the user would have to supply some sort of payment information such as credit card information or bank account information and allow the application concierge service to use the payment information to purchase the tickets.

Following the first use the user may trust the concierge service and give the application concierge service permission to use this information in dealings with future applications that require it. The security authorization module may document this exchange for future access by the application concierge service .

The amount of trust may be ascertained without limitation using a two fold determination. First the amount of trust may be determined by an extent to which the user has used the application concierge service . The more the user uses the application concierge service the more trust develops between the user and the service. Second the application concierge service may also have determined a level of trust with particular applications. For example a level of trust may be established when an application is repeatedly utilized by the user or the user consistently chooses applications by a particular publisher creating a level of trust with that particular publisher. The higher level of trust instilled in the application concierge service may enable the service to release the sensitive information without further authorization from the user .

Another implementation may allow the user to specify to the security authorization module what types of information that the application concierge service may share with Applications without prompting the user for permission. For example the user may authorize the application concierge service to share with the applications calendar information or social contact information but require further permission to release banking and or credit card information. In another implementation the individual applications may have permission to directly access the user information that a particular application may require to proceed. For example the user may have previously indicated that the security authorization module has permission to share information with Application or applications similar to Application .

In another implementation the results page may include visual indicators representative of the information required by the application combination of the scenario. For example as illustrated in visual indicators may include without limitation credit card information calendar information and banking information .

At block input from the user is received by the application concierge service . In some implementations the input is in a natural language text format. However in other implementations the input may be in any suitable format usable by the application concierge service for example without limitation structured text queries voice input or the like.

At block the application concierge data service retrieves information associated with the user . In one implementation the user data is maintained within the user data . The user data may include without limitation such as user preferences the user s calendar and the user s previous application scenario choices installed on the computing device and or application usage data. In other implementations data about the user may be maintained by the application concierge data service .

At block supplemental data may be supplied to the application concierge data service . The supplemental data may include without limitation a location a date a time zone the user is currently located in a weather report traffic conditions and the like.

At block the application concierge data service may also acquire data related to the user s social network . For example services enjoyed by the user s friends may also be of interest to the user . Therefore the application concierge data service may have access to the user s social network to obtain the user s friends previously used services as well as any feedback provided by the user s friends about those services.

At block the application concierge data service may recommend a service scenario in response to the user s input or user query . The scenario list may be based upon any one of or a combination of a predefined scenario list an expert derived list a list of applications based upon feedback from previous use by the user and or access to the user s social network to obtain the user s friends previously used services as well as any feedback provided by the user s friends about those services.

At block the application concierge application sequencer may recommend and present to the user a scenario comprising a list of multiple applications.

At block the scenario is initiated with application . In one implementation to fully process the scenario one or more of the applications may require additional and or supplemental information. For example without limitation if the first application is a movie ticket application the first application may receive as input data what the start time for a particular movie may be. The first application may then output that movie start time to application two. If application is a restaurant application the restaurant application may then schedule reservations for dinner according to the movie output time.

Although an indication process to compose a customized application sequence in response to a user query is has been described in language specific to structural features and or methods it is to be understood that the subject of the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as exemplary implementations.

