---

title: Recording and analyzing data on a 3D avatar
abstract: In particular embodiments, a method includes generating a 3D display of an avatar of a person, where the avatar can receive inputs identifying a type of a physiological event, a location of the physiological event in or on a person's body in three spatial dimensions, a time range of the physiological event, a quality of the physiological event, and rendering the physiological event on the avatar based on the inputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08928671&OS=08928671&RS=08928671
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08928671
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101124
---
This disclosure generally relates to sensors and sensor networks for monitoring and analyzing a person s health.

A sensor typically measures a physical quantity and converts it into a signal that an observer or an instrument can read. For example a mercury in glass thermometer converts a measured temperature into expansion and contraction of a liquid that can be read on a calibrated glass tube. A thermocouple converts temperature to an output voltage that a voltmeter can read. For accuracy sensors are generally calibrated against known standards.

A sensor s sensitivity indicates how much the sensor s output changes when the measured quantity changes. For instance if the mercury in a thermometer moves 1 cm when the temperature changes by 1 C. the sensitivity is 1 cm C. Sensors that measure very small changes have very high sensitivities. Sensors may also have an impact on what they measure for instance a room temperature thermometer inserted into a hot cup of liquid cools the liquid while the liquid heats the thermometer. The resolution of a sensor is the smallest change it can detect in the quantity that it is measuring. The resolution is related to the precision with which the measurement is made.

The output signal of a sensor is typically linearly proportional to the value or simple function logarithmic of the measured property. The sensitivity is then defined as the ratio between output signal and measured property. For example if a sensor measures temperature and has a voltage output the sensitivity is a constant with the unit V K this sensor is linear because the ratio is constant at all points of measurement.

Sensor network enables the collecting processing sharing and visualizing displaying archiving and searching of sensor data. The data collected by sensor array may be processed analyzed and stored using the computational and data storage resources of sensor network . This may be done with both centralized and distributed computational and storage resources. Sensor network may integrate heterogeneous sensor data and computational resources deployed over a wide area. Sensor network may be used to undertake a variety of tasks such as physiological psychological behavioral and environmental monitoring and analysis.

Sensor array comprises one or more sensors. A sensor receives a stimulus and converts it into a data stream. The sensors in sensor array may be of the same type e.g. multiple thermometers or various types e.g. a thermometer a barometer and an altimeter . Sensor array may transmit one or more data streams based on the one or more stimuli to one or more analysis systems over any suitable network. In particular embodiments a sensor s embedded processors may perform certain computational activities e.g. image and signal processing that could also be performed by analysis system .

As used herein a sensor in sensor array is described with respect to a user. Therefore a sensor may be personal or remote with respect to the user. Personal sensors receive stimulus that is from or related to the user. Personal sensors may include for example sensors that are affixed to or carried by the user e.g. a heart rate monitor a input by the user into a smartphone sensors that are proximate to the user e.g. a thermometer in the room where the user is located or sensors that are otherwise related to the user e.g. GPS position of the user a medical report by the user s doctor a user s email inbox . Remote sensors receive stimulus that is external to or not directly related to the user. Remote sensors may include for example environmental sensors e.g. weather balloons stock market ticker network data feeds e.g. news feeds or sensors that are otherwise related to external information. A sensor may be both personal and remote depending on the circumstances. For example a thermometer in a user s home may be considered personal while the user is at home but remote when the user is away from home.

Analysis system may monitor store and analyze one or more data streams from sensor array . Analysis system may have subcomponents that are local remote or both. Display system may render visualize display message notify and publish to one or more users or systems based on the output of analysis system . Display system may have subcomponents that are local remote or both.

As used herein the analysis and display components of sensor network are described with respect to a sensor. Therefore a component may be local or remote with respect to the sensor. Local components i.e. local analysis system local display system may include components that are built into or proximate to the sensor. For example a sensor could include an integrated computing system and an LCD monitor that function as local analysis system and local display system . Remote components i.e. remote analysis system remote display system may include components that are external to or independent of the sensor. For example a sensor could transmit a data stream over a network to a remote server at a medical facility wherein dedicated computing systems and monitors function as remote analysis system and remote display system . In particular embodiments each sensor in sensor array may utilize either local or remote display and analysis components or both. In particular embodiments a user may selectively access analyze and display the data streams from one or more sensors in sensor array . This may be done for example as part of running a specific application or data analysis algorithm. The user could access data from specific types of sensors e.g. all thermocouple data from sensors that measure specific types of data e.g. all environmental sensors or based on other criteria.

The sensor network embodiments disclosed herein have many possible applications such as healthcare monitoring of patients environmental and habitat monitoring weather monitoring and forecasting military and homeland security surveillance tracking of goods and manufacturing processes safety monitoring of physical structures and many other uses. Although this disclosure describes particular uses of sensor network this disclosure contemplates any suitable uses of sensor network .

In particular embodiments the sensors in sensor array each produce their own data stream which is transmitted to analysis system . In other embodiments one or more sensors in sensor array have their output combined into a single data stream.

Analysis system may monitor store and analyze one or more data streams. Analysis system may be local remote or both. Analysis system may transmit one or more analysis outputs based on the one or more data streams to one or more display systems . For example one analysis system could transmit multiple analysis outputs to multiple display systems. In another example multiple analysis systems could transmit multiple analysis outputs to one display system.

A display system may render visualize display message notify and publish to one or more users based on the one or more analysis outputs. A display system may be local remote or both. In particular embodiments a sensor array could transmit one or more data streams directly to a display system . This would allow for example display of stimulus readings by the sensor. However unless context suggests otherwise this disclosure assumes the data flow illustrated in .

The sensor includes a stimulus receiving element i.e. sensing element a data stream transmission element and any associate circuitry. Sensors generally are small battery powered portable and equipped with a microprocessor internal memory for data storage and a transducer or other component for receiving stimulus. However a sensor may also be an assay test or measurement. A sensor may interface with a personal computer and utilize software to activate the sensor and to view and analyze the collected data. A sensor may also have a local interface device e.g. keypad LCD allowing it to be used as a stand alone device.

Sensors are able to measure a variety of things including physiological psychological behavioral and environmental stimulus. Physiological stimulus may include for example physical aspects of a person e.g. stretch motion of the person and position of appendages metabolic aspects of a person e.g. glucose level oxygen level osmolality biochemical aspects of a person e.g. enzymes hormones neurotransmitters cytokines and other aspects of a person related to physical health disease and homeostasis. Psychological stimulus may include for example emotion mood feeling anxiety stress depression and other psychological or mental states of a person. Behavioral stimulus may include for example behavior related a person e.g. working socializing arguing drinking resting driving behavior related to a group e.g. marches protests mob behavior and other aspects related to behavior. Environmental stimulus may include for example physical aspects of the environment e.g. light motion temperature magnetic fields gravity humidity vibration pressure electrical fields sound GPS location environmental molecules e.g. toxins nutrients pheromones environmental conditions e.g. pollen count weather other external condition e.g. traffic conditions stock market information news feeds and other aspects of the environment.

The following is a partial list of sensor types that may be encompassed by various embodiments of the present disclosure Accelerometer Affinity electrophoresis Air flow meter Air speed indicator Alarm sensor Altimeter Ammeter Anemometer Arterial blood gas sensor Attitude indicator Barograph Barometer Biosensor Bolometer Boost gauge Bourdon gauge Breathalyzer calorimeter Capacitive displacement sensor Capillary electrophoresis Carbon dioxide sensor Carbon monoxide detector Catalytic bead sensor Charge coupled device Chemical field effect transistor Chromatograph Colorimeter Compass Contact image sensor Current sensor Depth gauge DNA microarray Electrocardiograph ECG or EKG Electrochemical gas sensor Electrolyte insulator semiconductor sensor Electromyograph EMG Electronic nose Electro optical sensor Exhaust gas temperature gauge Fiber optic sensors Flame detector Flow sensor Fluxgate compass Foot switches Force sensor Free fall sensor Galvanometer Gardon gauge Gas detector Gas meter Geiger counter Geophone Goniometers Gravimeter Gyroscope Hall effect sensor Hall probe Heart rate sensor Heat flux sensor High performance liquid chromatograph HPLC Hot filament ionization gauge Hydrogen sensor Hydrogen sulfide sensor Hydrophone Immunoassay Inclinometer Inertial reference unit Infrared point sensor Infra red sensor Infrared thermometer Ionization gauge Ion selective electrode Keyboard Kinesthetic sensors Laser rangefinder Leaf electroscope LED light sensor Linear encoder Linear variable differential transformer LVDT Liquid capacitive inclinometers Magnetic anomaly detector Magnetic compass Magnetometer Mass flow sensor McLeod gauge Metal detector MHD sensor Microbolometer Microphone Microwave chemistry sensor Microwave radiometer Mood sensor Motion detector Mouse Multimeter Net radiometer Neutron detection Nichols radiometer Nitrogen oxide sensor Nondispersive infrared sensor Occupancy sensor Odometer Ohmmeter Olfactometer Optode Oscillating U tube Oxygen sensor Pain sensor Particle detector Passive infrared sensor Pedometer Pellistor pH glass electrode Photoplethysmograph Photodetector Photodiode Photoelectric sensor Photoionization detector Photomultiplier Photoresistor Photoswitch Phototransistor Phototube Piezoelectric accelerometer Pirani gauge Position sensor Potentiometric sensor Pressure gauge Pressure sensor Proximity sensor Psychrometer Pulse oximetry sensor Pulse wave velocity monitor Radio direction finder Rain gauge Rain sensor Redox electrode Reed switch Resistance temperature detector Resistance thermometer Respiration sensor Ring laser gyroscope Rotary encoder Rotary variable differential transformer Scintillometer Seismometer Selsyn Shack Hartmann Silicon bandgap temperature sensor Smoke detector Snow gauge Soil moisture sensor Speech monitor Speed sensor Stream gauge Stud finder Sudden Motion Sensor Tachometer Tactile sensor Temperature gauge Thermistor Thermocouple Thermometer Tide gauge Tilt sensor Time pressure gauge Touch switch Triangulation sensor Turn coordinator Ultrasonic thickness gauge Variometer Vibrating structure gyroscope Voltmeter Water meter Watt hour meter Wavefront sensor Wired glove. Yaw rate sensor and Zinc oxide nanorod sensor. Although this disclosure describes particular types of sensors this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of sensors.

A biosensor is a type of sensor that receives a biological stimulus and converts it into a data stream. As used herein the term biosensor is used broadly. For example a canary in a cage as used by miners to warn of gas could be considered a biosensor.

In particular embodiments a biosensor is a device for the detection of an analyte. An analyte is a substance or chemical constituent that is determined in an analytical procedure. For instance in an immunoassay the analyte may be the ligand or the binder while in blood glucose testing the analyte is glucose. In medicine analyte typically refers to the type of test being run on a patient as the test is usually determining the presence or concentration of a chemical substance in the human body.

A common example of a commercial biosensor is the blood glucose biosensor which uses the enzyme glucose oxidase to break blood glucose down. In doing so it first oxidizes glucose and uses two electrons to reduce the FAD flavin adenine dinucleotide a component of the enzyme to FADH 1 5 dihydro FAD . This in turn is oxidized by the electrode accepting two electrons from the electrode in a number of steps. The resulting current is a measure of the concentration of glucose. In this case the electrode is the transducer and the enzyme is the biologically active component.

In particular embodiments a biosensor combines a biological component with a physicochemical detector component. A typical biosensor comprises a sensitive biological element e.g. biological material tissue microorganisms organelles cell receptors enzymes antibodies nucleic acids etc. biologically derived material biomimic a physicochemical transducer detector element e.g. optical piezoelectric electrochemical that transforms the signal i.e. input stimulus resulting from the interaction of the analyte with the biological element into another signal i.e. transducers that may be measured and quantified and associated electronics or signal processors generating and transmitting a data stream corresponding to the input stimulus. The encapsulation of the biological component in a biosensor may be done by means of a semi permeable barrier e.g. a dialysis membrane or hydrogel a 3D polymer matrix e.g. by physically or chemically constraining the sensing macromolecule or by other means.

Some biosensor measurements are highly dependent the physical activity of the user prior to the measurement being made. For example a user s fasting glucose level serum createnine level and protein createnine ratio may all vary based on the user s activity. Some users in anticipation of a pending biosensor measurement may increase their physical activity level in order to achieve a better analyte measurement. This may lead to misleading sensor measurements and possibly to false negative disease state diagnoses. In particular embodiments sensor network may monitor and analyze a user s activity to ensure the user is not engaged in an abnormal level of physical activity before the biosensor measurement is made. In particular embodiments sensor array may include one or more accelerometers. These sensors may be worn carried or otherwise affixed to the user. The accelerometers may measure and transmit information regarding the user s activity level. Sensor array may transmit data streams containing acceleration data of the user to analysis system . Analysis system may analyze the accelerometer data to establish a baseline activity of the user and also to monitor the user s activity prior to a biosensor measurement to ensure that the user s activity does not deviate from his baseline activity. Based on these deviations in activity various alerts or warnings may be provided to the user or to the user s physician. Analysis system may also analyze the accelerometer data to contextualize and normalize biosensor measurements. For example accelerometer data that shows that a user was active during a certain time period may be used to explain an unusually low blood glucose measurement during the same period.

In particular embodiments a sensor samples input stimulus at discrete times. The sampling rate sample rate or sampling frequency defines the number of samples per second or per other unit taken from a continuous stimulus to make a discrete data signal. For time domain signals the unit for sampling rate may be Hertz 1 s . The inverse of the sampling frequency is the sampling period or sampling interval which is the time between samples. The sampling rate of a sensor may be controlled locally remotely or both.

In particular embodiments one or more sensors in sensor array may have a dynamic sampling rate. Dynamic sampling is performed when a decision to change the sampling rate is taken if the current outcome of a process is different from some specified value or range of values. For example if the stimulus measured by a sensor is different from the outcome predicted by some model or falls outside some threshold range the sensor may increase or decrease its sampling rate in response. Dynamic sampling may be used to optimize the operation of the sensors or influence the operation of actuators to change the environment.

In particular embodiments a sensor with a dynamic sampling rate may take some predefined action when it senses the appropriate stimulus light heat sound motion touch etc. . For example an accelerometer may have a default sample rate of 1 s but may increase the sampling rate to 60 s whenever it measures a non zero value and then may return to a 1 s sampling rate after getting 60 consecutive samples equal to zero.

In particular embodiments the dynamic sampling rate of a sensor may be based on input from one or more components of sensor network . As an example and not by way of limitation a heart rate monitor may have a default sampling rate of 1 min. However the heart rate monitor may increase its sampling rate if it senses that the user s activity level has increased such as by a signal from an accelerometer. As another example and not by way of limitation analysis system may transmit instructions to one or more sensors instructing them to vary their sampling rates. As yet another example and not by way of limitation the user s doctor may remotely activate or control a sensor.

In particular embodiments a sensor with a dynamic sampling rate may increase or decrease the precision at which it samples input. As an example and not by way of limitation a glucose monitor may use four bits to record a user s blood glucose level by default. However if the user s blood glucose level begins varying quickly the glucose monitor may increase its precision to eight bit measurements.

In particular embodiments the stimulus received by sensor may be input from a person or user. A user may provide input in a variety of ways. User input may include for example inputting a quantity or value into the sensor speaking or providing other audio input to the sensor and touching or providing other stimulus to the sensor. Any client system with a suitable I O device may serve as a user input sensor. Suitable I O devices include alphanumeric keyboards numeric keypads touch pads touch screens input keys buttons switches microphones pointing devices navigation buttons stylus scroll dial another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments a sensor may query the user to input information into the sensor. In one embodiment the sensor may query the user at static intervals e.g. every hour . In another embodiment the sensor may query the user at a dynamic rate. The dynamic rate may be based on a variety of factors including prior input into the sensor data from other sensors in sensor array output from analysis system etc. For example if a heart rate monitor in sensor array indicates an increase in the user s heart rate the user input sensor may immediately query the user to input his current activity.

In particular embodiments an electronic calendar functions as a user input sensor for gathering behavioral data. A user may input the time and day for various activities including appointments social interactions phone calls meetings work tasks chores etc. Each inputted activity may be further tagged with details labels and categories e.g. important personal birthday . The electronic calendar may be any suitable personal information manager such as Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes Google Calendar etc. The electronic calendar may then transmit the activity data as a data stream to analysis system which could map the activity data over time and correlate it with data from other sensors in sensor array . For example analysis system may map a heart rate data stream against the activity data stream from an electronic calendar showing that the user s heart rate peaked during a particularly stressful activity e.g. dinner with the in laws .

In particular embodiments a data feed may be a sensor. A data feed may be a computing system that receives and aggregates physiological psychological behavioral or environmental data from one or more sources and transmits one or more data streams based on the aggregated data. Alternatively a data feed may be the one or more data streams based on the aggregated data. Example data feeds include stock market tickers weather reports news feeds traffic condition updates public health notices and any other suitable data feeds. A data feed may contain both personal and remote data as discussed previously. A data feed may be any suitable computing device such as computer system . Although this disclosure describes particular types of data feeds this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of data feeds.

In particular embodiments mood sensor includes a software application that may be executed on client system . illustrates a smart phone as an example client system however any suitable user input device may be used e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant personal computer etc. . In particular embodiments a user may execute an application on client system to access mood collection interface . In other embodiments a user may use a browser client or other application on client system to access mood collection interface over a mobile network or other suitable network . Mood collection interface is configured to receive signals from the user. For example the user may click touch or otherwise interact with mood collection interface to select and input mood and behavior information and to perform other actions.

Mood collection interface may include various components. illustrates mood input widget mood intensity input widget activity input widget and clock however other components are possible. Mood input widget is a three by three grid of mood icons wherein each icon has a unique semantic label and color. The grid illustrated in shows the following example moods and colors 

The user may touch one or more of the mood icons to input his current mood. Mood intensity widget is a row with numbered icons ranging from one to four that each correspond to a level of intensity of a mood. The numbers range from the lowest to highest intensity with one being the lowest and four being the highest. The user may touch one of the numbers to input an intensity corresponding to a selected mood. In particular embodiments the mood intensity corresponds to a standard psychometric scale e.g. Likert scale . Activity input widget is a drop down menu containing a list of activities. The list is not illustrated but could include a variety of activities such as sleeping eating working driving arguing etc. The user may touch the drop down menu to input one or more activities corresponding to a selected mood. Clock provides the current time according to client system . This time may be automatically inputted as a timestamp to any other inputs on mood collection interface . In particular embodiments a time or duration of the mood may be inputted manually by the user. The input widgets described above are provided as examples of one means for gathering mood intensity and activity data and are not meant to be limiting. A variety of other input means could be utilized. In particular embodiments the mood mood intensity activity and time may all be entered manually by the user without the use of widgets icons drop down menus or timestamps. This would allow the user to input a variety of mood intensity and activity information for any time or time period.

In particular embodiments mood sensor is a sensor in sensor array . After receiving the mood intensity activity and time inputs the mood sensor may transmit the data as one or more data streams to analysis system .

In particular embodiments mood sensor may query the user to input his mood activity and possibly other information. In one embodiment mood sensor queries the user at fixed time intervals e.g. every hour . In another embodiment mood sensor queries the user at a dynamic rate. The dynamic rate may be based on a variety of factors including the user s prior mood and activity inputs data from other sensors in sensor array output from analysis system etc. For example if the user inputs that he is angry with an intensity of 4 mood sensor may begin querying the user every 15 minutes until the user indicates the intensity of his mood has dropped to 2 or less. In another example if a heart rate monitor in sensor array indicates an increase in the user s heart rate mood sensor may query the user to input his current mood and activity. In yet another example if the user s electronic calendar indicates that he has an appointment tagged as important mood sensor may query the user to input his mood immediately before and after the appointment.

In particular embodiments mood sensor may administer one or more therapies or therapeutic feedbacks. A therapy may be provided based on a variety of factors. In one embodiment mood sensor may provide therapeutic feedback to the user either during or after the user inputs a negative mood or activity. For example if the user touches the angry button the display may change to show a calming image of puppies playing in the grass. In another embodiment mood sensor may provide therapeutic feedback to the user based on output from analysis system . For example if a heart rate monitor in sensor array indicates an increase in the user s heart rate and the user inputs stressed into mood sensor the analysis system may determine that a therapeutic feedback is needed. In response to this determination mood sensor may play relaxing music to clam the user. Mood sensor may deliver a variety of therapies such as interventions biofeedback breathing exercises progressive muscle relaxation exercises presentation of personal media e.g. music personal pictures etc. offering an exit strategy e.g. calling the user so he has an excuse to leave a stressful situation references to a range of psychotherapeutic techniques and graphical representations of trends e.g. illustrations of health metrics over time cognitive reframing therapy and other therapeutic feedbacks. Mood sensor may also provide information on where the user can seek other therapies such as specific recommendations for medical care providers hospitals etc.

In particular embodiments mood sensor may be used to access and display data related to the user s psychology and behavior on display system . Display system may display data on mood collection interface i.e. the smartphone s touch screen or another suitable display. Mood sensor may access a local data store e.g. prior mood and activity input stored on the user s smart phone or a remote data store e.g. medical records from the user s hospital over any suitable network. In one embodiment mood sensor may access and display mood and activity information previously recorded by mood sensor . For example the user could click on the happy button to access data showing the mood intensity activity and time associated with each input of happy by the user on mood sensor . In another embodiment mood sensor may access and display data recorded by other medical sensors or medical procedures. For example the user could click on the depressed button to access data from one or more other sensors in sensor array e.g. heart rate sensor data pulse oximetry sensor data etc. that correspond to each input of depressed by the user on mood sensor .

In particular embodiments ring element may include one or more types of sensors. For example ring element may include a pulse oximeter heart rate monitor a CO oximeter a galvanic skin response sensor an electrocargiograph a respirometer another suitable sensor or two or more such sensors.

In particular embodiments ring based sensor is a pulse oximeter. A pulse oximeter is type of sensor that indirectly measures the oxygen saturation SpO of a user s blood. Pulse oximeters typically measure the percentage of arterial hemoglobin in the oxyhemoglobin configuration i.e. saturated hemoglobin . Typical SpOpercentages range from 95 100 however lower percentages are not uncommon. An estimate of arterial pOmay be made from the pulse oximeter s SpOmeasurements. In particular embodiments ring based sensor utilizes two different light sources usually red and infrared that measure different absorption or reflection characteristics for oxyhemoglobin bright red and deoxyhemoglobin dark red blue . Based upon the ratio of changing absorbances of the red and infrared light caused by the difference in color between oxygen bound bright red and unbound dark red blue hemoglobin in the blood a measure of oxygenation i.e. the percent of hemoglobin molecules bound with oxygen molecules may be made. In particular embodiments ring based sensor determines blood oxygen saturation by transmission oximetry. Transmission oximetry operates by transmitting light through an appendage such as a finger or an earlobe and comparing the characteristics of the light transmitted into one side of the appendage with that detected on the opposite side. In other embodiments ring based sensor determines blood oxygen saturation by reflectance oximetry which uses reflected light to measure blood oxygen saturation. In a typical pulse oximeter the monitored signal varies in time with the heartbeat of the user because the arterial blood vessels expand and contract with each heartbeat. In particular embodiments ring based sensor may normalize the monitored signal e.g. by subtracting minimum absorption from peak absorption allowing it to measure absorption caused by arterial blood. In particular embodiments ring element comprises two light emitting diodes LEDs which face a photodiode on the opposite side of the ring. When worn the LEDs can emit light through a user s translucent finger. One LED may be red with a wavelength of for example 660 nm and the other may be infrared with a wavelength of for example 905 910 or 940 nm. Absorption at these wavelengths differs significantly between oxyhemoglobin and its deoxygenated form therefore the oxy deoxyhemoglobin ratio may be calculated from the ratio of the absorption of the red and infrared light.

In particular embodiments ring element may be powered by electromagnetic induction. Wrist element comprises an inductive power source. Wrist element may generate a first current i through one or more loops in the wrist element. The current in wrist element may generate a magnetic field B . If the magnetic flux passing through ring element is varied over time it may inductively generate a second current i through one or more loops in ring element . A time varying magnetic flux through ring element may be created using a variety of means. In one embodiment current iis an alternating current which generates a magnetic field Bthat varies in time with the alternating current. The amount of magnetic flux passing through ring element may vary as magnetic field Bvaries. In another embodiment current iis a direct current which generates a static magnetic field B. The amount of magnetic flux passing through ring element may vary as the user moves his finger through the static magnetic field Bgenerated by wrist element such that the natural movement of the user s finger is sufficient to power ring element .

In particular embodiments ring element includes a wireless transmitter and wrist element includes a wireless transceiver. These allow ring element to communicate with wrist element using a variety of communication means. In particular embodiments ring element and wrist element may communicate using RF induction technology. In other embodiments ring element and wrist element may communicate using other communication means e.g. radio Bluetooth etc. . Ring element may transmit absorption measurements to wrist element for further processing analysis and display.

In particular embodiments ring based sensor is a sensor in sensor array . Ring based sensor may transmit sensor data as one or more data streams to analysis system . In particular embodiments wrist element may include a local analysis system . In other embodiments wrist element may transmit sensor data as one or more data streams to remote analysis system . Analysis system may transmit one or more analysis outputs to display system . In particular embodiments wrist element includes a local display system that shows current measurements by the ring based sensor . In other embodiments measurements by the ring based sensor are displayed on remote display system .

In particular embodiments pain sensor includes a software application that may be executed on any suitable client system. illustrates a webpage based application accessed from browser client however any user input application on any suitable user input device may be used. In particular embodiments a user may use browser client to access pain sensor interface over the internet or other suitable network . Pain sensor interface may be automatically generated and presented to the user in response to the user visiting or accessing a website or executing an application on a suitable client system with a suitable browser client. A networking system may transmit data to the client system allowing it to display the pain sensor interface which is typically some type of graphic user interface. For example the webpage downloaded to the client system may include an embedded call that causes the client system to download an executable object such as a Flash .SWF object which executes on the client system and renders one or more components of the interface within the context of the webpage. Other interface types are possible such as server side rendering and the like. Pain sensor interface is configured to receive signals from the user via the client system. For example the user may click on pain sensor interface or enter commands from a keyboard or other suitable input device.

The pain sensor interface may include various components. illustrates a three dimensional graphical model of the user 3D avatar and an interface for inputting and displaying physiological event information . In particular embodiments a user may input one or more details regarding a certain physiological event on pain sensor interface . In one embodiment a user may input the location of a physiological event on or in the user s body by clicking on the appropriate location of the 3D avatar e.g. clicking on the avatar s left elbow . The user may also be able to select a depth area or volume associated with the physiological event. The user may then use interface to input further details regarding the physiological event such as the type of physiological event e.g. pain itching wound etc. a time range associated with the physiological event e.g. when the pain started and stopped when the wound was inflicted etc. a quality or intensity associated with the physiological event e.g. a dull ache mild itching etc. and a cause of the physiological event e.g. skiing accident contact with poison oak etc. . One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the types of details associated with a physiological event described above are not comprehensive and that a variety of other details related to a physiological event may be inputted into pain sensor .

In particular embodiments the user may input one or more treatments used for the physiological event e.g. acupuncture ice bandage oral analgesic etc. . In particular embodiments details regarding the treatment e.g. time duration frequency location dose quality care provider etc. may also be inputted.

In particular embodiments the user may input one or more configurations of the body associated with the physiological event. In particular embodiments the user may do this by manipulating the 3D avatar to illustrate the configuration of the body associated with the physiological event. For example the user could click on the 3D avatar s left elbow to cause it to bend to a certain position associated with a pain. The user may also be able to rotate the 3D avatar around one or more axes.

In particular embodiments the display of 3D avatar may alter in response to the input provide by the user. For example the avatar may alter to show certain treatments e.g. displaying a cast on the avatar s leg if a cast has been applied to the user . In another example the avatar may alter to reflect the physiological event e.g. inputting information on pain in the left elbow may cause the left elbow on the 3D avatar to glow red in the display . In yet another example the avatar may be customizable to reflect the particular anatomy of the person represented e.g. displaying appropriate genitals for female versus male user altering the dimensions of the avatar to reflect the height and weight of the user etc. . 3D avatar may be customized and altered in a variety of ways and the examples above are not meant to be limiting.

In particular embodiments pain sensor is a sensor in a sensor array . After receiving input on the details of the physiological event pain sensor may transmit the data as a data stream to analysis system .

In particular embodiments pain sensor may be used to access and display data related to the user s body on display system . Display system may display data on pain sensor interface or another suitable display. Pain sensor may access a local data store e.g. prior pain sensor input stored on the user s personal computer or a remote data store e.g. medical records from the user s hospital over any suitable network. In one embodiment pain sensor may access and display physiological event information previously recorded by the pain sensor. For example the user could click on the right shoulder of 3D avatar to access data on one or more past physiological events on the person s right shoulder that were recorded by pain sensor . In another embodiment pain sensor may access and display data recorded by other medical sensors or medical procedures. For example the user could click on the spine of 3D avatar and pain sensor could access medical records from other sensors or procedures related to the person s spine e.g. MRI results CAT scans surgical records etc. .

In one embodiment pain sensor may conform to the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine SNOMED standard. Pain sensor may be able to receive user input in SNOMED format e.g. the user could input 22298006 to record a myocardial infarction or to transmit a data stream with data in SNOMED format e.g. if the user inputs a burn on his skin the pain sensor could transmit a data stream containing the code 284196006 . Various embodiments may conform with one or more other medical terminology standards and this example is not meant to be limiting.

A data stream comprises one or more datum transmitted from a sensor. A data stream is a digital or analog signal that may be transmitted over any suitable transmission medium and further used in electronic devices. Sensor array may transmit one or more data streams based on one or more stimuli to one or more analysis systems over any suitable network.

A data stream may include signals from a variety of types of sensors including physiological psychological behavioral and environmental sensors. A sensor generates a data stream corresponding to the stimulus is receives. For example a physiological sensor e.g. an accelerometer generates a physiological data stream e.g. an accelerometer data stream which includes for example data on the acceleration of a person over time .

In particular embodiments a sensor transmits one or more datum at discrete times. The transmitting rate transmission rate or transmitting frequency defines the number of transmissions per second or per other unit sent by a sensor to make a discrete data signal. For time domain signals the unit for transmitting rate may be Hertz 1 s . The inverse of the transmitting frequency is the transmitting period or transmitting interval which is the time between transmissions. The datum may be transmitted continuously periodically randomly or with any other suitable frequency or period. This may or may not correlate with the sampling rate of the sensor.

In particular embodiments the components of sensor network may utilize some type of data acquisition system to further process the data stream signal for use by analysis system . For example a data acquisition system may convert an analog waveforms signal into a digital value. The data acquisition system may be local for example integrated into a sensor in sensor array or into local analysis system . The data acquisition system may also be remote for example integrated into remote analysis system or an independent system.

In particular embodiments the data acquisition system may perform one or more signal conditioning processes for example if the signal from the sensor is not suitable for the type of analysis system being used. For example the data acquisition system may amplify filter or demodulate the signal. Various other examples of signal conditioning might be bridge completion providing current or voltage excitation to the sensor isolation and linearization. In particular embodiments single ended analog signals may be converted to differential signals. In particular embodiments digital signals may be encoded to reduce and correct transmission errors or down sampled to reduce transmission power requirements.

In particular embodiments the components of sensor network may utilize some type of data logging system to record categorize and file data from one or more data streams over time. The data logging system may be local for example integrated into a sensor in sensor array or into local analysis system . The data logging system may also be remote for example integrated into remote analysis system or an independent system. The data logging system may also use distributed resources to record data.

The data logging system may record data streams as one or more data sets. A data set comprises one or more datum from a data stream. Data sets may be categorized and formed based on a variety of criteria. For example a data stream could be recorded as one or more data sets based on the specific user sensor time period event or other criteria.

Analysis system may monitor store and analyze one or more data streams from sensor array . A data stream from sensor array may be transmitted to analysis system over any suitable medium. Analysis system may transmit one or more analysis outputs based on the one or more data streams to one or more display systems . Analysis system may be any suitable computing device such as computer system .

Analysis system comprises one or more local analysis systems and or one or more remote analysis systems . Where analysis system comprises multiple subsystems e.g. local analysis system and remote analysis system processing and analysis of the data streams may occur in series or in parallel. In one embodiment analysis system receives identical data streams from a sensor at both local analysis system and remote analysis system . In another embodiment analysis system receives a data stream at local analysis system which performs some local analysis and then transmits a modified data stream analysis output to remote analysis system .

Analysis system may analyze a data stream in real time as it is received from sensor array . Analysis system may also selectively access and analyze one or more data sets from a data stream. In particular embodiments analysis system may perform a variety of processes and calculations including ranging inspecting cleaning filtering transforming modeling normalizing averaging correlating and contextualizing data. Analysis system may use a variety of data analysis techniques including data mining data fusion distributed database processing and artificial intelligence. These techniques may be applied to analyze various data streams and to generate correlations and conclusions based on the data. Although this disclosure describes performing particular analytical processes using particular analysis techniques this disclosure contemplates performing any suitable analytical processes using any suitable analysis techniques.

In particular embodiments analysis system may generate models based on one or more data streams. A model is a means for describing a system or object. For example a model may be a data set function algorithm differential equation chart table decision tree binary decision diagram simulation another suitable model or two or more such models. A model may describe a variety of systems or objects including one or more aspects of a person s physiology psychology behavior or environment.

Analysis system may generate models that are empirical theoretical linear nonlinear deterministic probabilistic static dynamic heterogeneous or homogenous. Analysis system may generate models that fit one or more data points using a variety of techniques including for example curve fitting model training interpolation extrapolation statistical modeling nonparametric statistics differential equations etc.

Analysis system may generate models of various types including baseline models statistical models predictive models etc. A baseline model is a model that serves as a basis for comparison and is typically generated using controlled data over a specified period. A predictive model is a mathematical function or set of functions that describe the behavior of a system or object in terms of one or more independent variables. For example a predictive model that may be used to calculate a physiological state based on one or more actual sensor measurements. A type of predictive model is a statistical model which is a mathematical function or set of functions that describe the behavior of an object of study in terms of random variables and their associated probability distributions. One of the most basic statistical models is the simple linear regression model which assumes a linear relationship between two measured variables. In particular embodiments a predictive model may be used as a baseline model wherein the predictive model was generated using controlled data over a specified period.

In one embodiment analysis system may generate a model by normalizing or averaging data from one or more data streams. For example a model of a data stream from a single sensor could simply be the average sensor measurement made by the sensor over some initialization period. In another example a model could be a single sensor measurement made during a control period.

In another embodiment analysis system may generate a model by fitting one or more data sets to a mathematical function. For example a model could be an algorithm based on sensor measurements made by one or more sensors over some control period. The model may include a variety of variables including data from one or more data streams and one or more fixed variables. The following is an example algorithm that analysis system could generate to model a system or object 

In particular embodiments the model may be used to predict hypothetical sensor measurements in theoretical or experimental systems. In other embodiments the model may be used to determine or categorize a user s physiological or psychological state. For example the model may determine a user s risk for a certain disease state with an abstract or statistical result. The model could simply identify the user as being at high risk of developing a disease or identify the user as being 80 likely to develop the disease. In another example the model may determine a user s severity or grade of a disease state.

In particular embodiments analysis system may map one or more data streams over time allowing the data streams to be compared.

Mapping and comparing the data streams allows analysis system to contextualize and correlate a data set from one data stream with data sets from one or more other data streams. In particular embodiments analysis system contextualizes and correlates data sets from the data streams where the data stream exhibits some type of deviation variability or change.

Contextualizing is the process of interpreting a data set against the background of information provided by one or more data streams. Correlating is establishing or demonstrating a causal complementary parallel or reciprocal relation between one data set and another data set. In general analysis system may make more accurate correlations as more data becomes available from sensor array .

In particular embodiments analysis system may contextualize and correlate a data set from a data stream that exhibits some type of deviation variability or change from other data sets in the data stream. For example a user may be wearing a heart rate monitor and an accelerometer which transmit a heart rate data stream and an accelerometer data stream respectively. A data set in the heart rate data stream may show the user had an elevated heart rate during a certain time period. A data set in the accelerometer data stream may show the user had an elevated activity during the same time period. By mapping and comparing these data sets analysis system may contextualize and correlate the data streams. For example an elevated heart rate that coincides with increased activity is typically a normal response. However a spike in heart rate that coincides with a marginal elevated physical activity may not be a normal response. Analysis system could then determine based on the comparison whether certain levels of activity produce abnormal heart rate spikes in the user.

In particular embodiments sensor array comprises a heart rate sensor a mood sensor for collecting subjective stress and behavior information that is a smart phone and a GPS system that is built into the smart phone. This system may be used to contextualize and correlate physiological psychological behavioral and environmental data steams to diagnose and monitor stress in a user. For example the heart rate sensor s data stream may show a spike in the user s heart rate at certain times of the day or at certain location. Similarly mood sensor s data stream when mapped against the heart rate data may show these periods of increased heart rate correlate to periods when the user indicated that his mood was stressed and his activity was driving. If the user has previously been diagnoses as hypertensive it may be desirable to avoid these particularly stressful driving situations that cause a spike in the user s heart rate. These stressful driving situations may be identified by contextualizing the prior data streams against the GPS system s data stream. When the location data from the GPS system is mapped against the prior data streams it may show the heart rate spikes stressed mood and driving all occurred at a specific highway interchange. Therefore by contextualizing the physiological psychological behavioral and environmental data streams analysis system may identify driving on the specific highway interchange as the cause of the user s heart rate spikes. This could be useful for example to allow the user to identify situations to avoid e.g. the specific highway interchange and possibly to identify better or healthier alternatives e.g. taking surface streets .

Sensor array may continuously transmit data regarding a user s health to analysis system which may monitor and automatically detect changes in the user s health state. As used herein health state refers to a person s physiological and psychological state including the person s state with respect to pathologies and diseases. By using an integrated sensor array to monitor physiological psychological behavioral and environmental factors analysis system may identify pathologies disease states and other health related states with greater accuracy than is possible with any individual sensor.

In particular embodiments one or more sensors in sensor array may measure one or more biomarkers. A biomarker is a characteristic that may be measured and evaluated as an indicator of biological processes pathogenic processes or pharmacologic responses. For example in a pharmacogenomic context a biomarker would be a specific genetic variation that correlates with drug response. In another example in a neurochemical context a biomarker would be a person s subjective stress level that correlates with the person s plasma glucocorticoid level. A biomarker is effectively a surrogate for measuring another physiological or psychological characteristic. A biomarker may include any type of stimulus including physiological psychological behavioral and environmental stimulus.

In particular embodiments analysis system may identify pathologies disease states and other health states of a user. For example analysis system could determine whether a user has hypertension by monitoring a blood pressure data stream for a three week period and identifying substantial periods where the user s blood pressure is at least 140 90 mmHg. The accuracy of identification may generally be increased as the number of data streams is increased. Analysis system may contextualize and correlate data from multiple data streams to eliminate confounders from its data analysis and reduce the likelihood of generating false positive and false negative disease state diagnoses. For example the hypertension diagnosis system described above may generate a false positive diagnosis of hypertension if the user engages in lengthy periods of physical activity which naturally raise the user s blood pressure. In this example if analysis system also monitored a heart rate data stream of the user it could eliminate blood pressure data sets that correlate with time periods of high heart rate thereby reducing the likelihood of generating an incorrect hypertension diagnosis.

In particular embodiments analysis system may analyze physiological psychological behavioral and environmental data steams to identify correlations between certain data sets. These correlations may be of varying degrees of dependence e.g as determined by a Pearson s product moment coefficient . Analysis system may then use these correlations to generate causality hypotheses of varying degrees of confidence. For example analysis system may be able to correlate a behavioral data set indicating the user had a fight with a physiological data set indicating the user had an elevated heart rate to identify the fight as the cause of the elevated heart rate. In another example analysis system may be able to correlate a physiological data set indicating the user had an elevated skin temperature with a behavioral data set indicating the user was engaged in physical activity to identify the physical activity as the cause of the elevated skin temperature. In yet another example analysis system may be able to correlate a psychological data set indicating the user is depressed with an environmental data set indicating that the user s stock portfolio declined to identify the stock decline as the cause of the user s depression. Analysis system may use a variety of methods to identify correlations and generate causality hypotheses.

In particular embodiments analysis system may generate a model of a user s health state. In one embodiment analysis system may generate a baseline model of the user s physiological or psychological state by analyzing one or more data streams during a control period. Once the baseline model is established analysis system could then continuously monitor the user and identify deviations variability or changes in the data streams as compared to the baseline model. In another embodiment analysis system may generate a predictive model of the user s physiological or psychological state by analyzing one or more data streams and generating one or more algorithms that fit the sensor measurements. Once the predictive model is established analysis system could then be used to predict future health states hypothetical sensor readings and other aspects of a user s physiology or psychology. Analysis system may also update and refine the predictive model based on new data generated by sensor array .

In particular embodiments analysis system may monitor disease state progression and other health state changes over time. For example analysis system could continuously monitor a user s blood pressure over time to determine whether the user s hypertension is improving. Such monitoring may be used to identify trends and to generate alerts or predictions regarding possible health states. Similarly analysis system may also monitor data streams containing treatment or therapy information to determine whether the treatment or therapy is efficacious. For example analysis system could monitor a user s blood pressure over time to determine whether an ACE inhibitor treatment is affecting the user s hypertension.

In particular embodiments analysis system may monitor and analyze various data streams from a group of people to identify novel pre disease states or risk states. For example one or more sensor arrays could monitor a plurality of users. As multiple users develop certain diseases analysis system could analyze data sets from these users prior to their development of the disease. The analysis of these data sets could allow analysis system to identify certain health states that correlate with some level of risk for developing the disease.

Dyspnea also called shortness of breath SOB or air hunger is a debilitating symptom that is the experience of unpleasant or uncomfortable respiratory sensations. As used here respiration refers the act or process of inhaling and exhaling which may also be referred to as breathing or ventilation. Respiration rate refers to the rate a person breathes e.g. breaths minute . Respiratory minute volume refers to the volume of air that a person inhales and exhales over time e.g. volume minute . Dyspnea is a subjective experience of breathing discomfort that consists of qualitatively distinct sensations that vary in intensity. The experience derives from interactions among multiple physiological psychological behavioral and environmental factors and may induce secondary physiological and behavioral responses. Dyspnea on exertion may occur normally but is considered indicative of disease when it occurs at a level of activity that is usually well tolerated. Dyspnea is different from tachypnea hyperventilation and hyperpnea which refer to ventilatory parameters than can be objectively measured regardless of the person s subjective sensations.

Dyspnea is a common symptom of numerous medical disorders particularly those involving the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. Dyspnea on exertion is the most common presenting complaint for people with respiratory impairment. However dyspnea at rest is not uncommon. Dyspnea on exertion occurs when the left ventricular output fails to respond appropriately to increased activity or oxygen demand with a resultant increase in pulmonary venous pressure. Dyspnea on exertion is not necessarily indicative of disease. Normal persons may feel dyspneic with strenuous exercise. The level of activity tolerated by any individual depends on such variables as age sex body weight physical conditioning attitude and emotional motivation. Dyspnea on exertion is abnormal if it occurs with activity that is normally well tolerated by the person.

Spontaneous respiration i.e. ventilation is controlled by neural and chemical mechanisms. At rest an average 70 kg person breathes 12 to 15 times a minute with a tidal volume of about 600 ml. A healthy individual is not aware of his or her respiratory effort until ventilation is doubled. Typically dyspnea is not experienced until ventilation is tripled and an abnormally increased muscular effort is consequently needed for the process of inspiration and expiration. Because dyspnea is a subjective experience it does not always correlate with the degree of physiologic alteration. Some persons may complain of severe breathlessness with relatively minor physiologic change others may deny breathlessness even with marked cardio pulmonary deterioration.

Diagnosis of the cause of dyspnea may be made relatively easily in the presence of other clinical signs of heart or lung disease. Difficulty is sometimes encountered in determining the precipitating cause of breathlessness in a person with both cardiac and pulmonary conditions. An additional diagnostic problem may be the presence of anxiety or other emotional disorder. Diagnosis of the cause of dyspnea may require an analysis of physiological psychological behavioral and environmental factors related to a person.

In general dyspnea indicates that there is inadequate ventilation to sufficiently meet the body s needs. Dyspnea may be induced in four distinct settings 1 increased ventilatory demand such as with exertion febrile illness hypoxic state severe anemia or metabolic acidosis 2 decreased ventilatory capacity such as with pleural effusion pneumothorax intrathoracic mass rib injury or muscle weakness 3 increased airway resistance such as with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and 4 decreased pulmonary compliance such as with interstitial fibrosis or pulmonary edema.

Although the exact mechanisms of dyspnea are not fully understood some general principles are apparent. It is currently thought that there are three main components that contribute to dyspnea afferent signals efferent signals and central information processing. It is believed that the central processing in the brain compares the afferent and efferent signals and that a mismatch results in the sensation of dyspnea. In other words dyspnea may result when the need for ventilation afferent signaling is not being met by the ventilation that is occurring efferent signaling . Afferent signals are sensory neuronal signals that ascend to the brain. Afferent neurons significant in dyspnea arise from a large number of sources including the carotid bodies medulla lungs and chest wall. Chemoreceptors in the carotid bodies and medulla supply information regarding the blood gas levels of O COand H. In the lungs juxtacapillary receptors are sensitive to pulmonary interstitial edema while stretch receptors signal bronchoconstriction. Muscle spindles in the chest wall signal the stretch and tension of the respiratory muscles. Thus poor ventilation leading to hypercapnia left heart failure leading to interstitial edema impairing gas exchange asthma causing bronchoconstriction limiting airflow and muscle fatigue leading to ineffective respiratory muscle action could all contribute to a feeling of dyspnea. Efferent signals are the motor neuronal signals descending to the respiratory muscles. The primary respiratory muscle is the diaphragm. Other respiratory muscles include the external and internal intercostal muscles the abdominal muscles and the accessory breathing muscles. As the brain receives afferent information relating to ventilation it is able to compare it to the current level of respiration as determined by the efferent signals. If the level of respiration is inappropriate for the body s status then dyspnea might occur. There is a psychological component of dyspnea as well as some people may become aware of their breathing in such circumstances but not experience the distress typical of dyspnea or experience more distress than the degree of ventilatory derangement would typically warrant.

In particular embodiments sensor network may analyze physiological psychological behavioral and environmental data steams to diagnose and monitor dyspnea in a user. In some embodiments sensor array may include one or more accelerometers and one or more respiration sensors. In other embodiments sensor array may include one or more pulse oximetry sensors and one or more respiration sensors. In yet other embodiments sensor array may include one or more accelerometers one or more pulse oximetry sensors and one or more respiration sensors. These sensors may be worn carried or otherwise affixed to the user. The accelerometers may measure and transmit information regarding the user s activity level. The respiration sensors may measure and transmit information regarding the user s breathing rate volume and intensity. As an example and not by way of limitation a respiration sensor may measure a user s breathing rate in breaths minute. As another example and not by way of limitation a respiration sensor may measure a user s tidal volume in volume of air breath. As yet another example and not by way of limitation a respiration sensor may measure a user s respiration minute volume in volume of air minute. As yet another example and not by way of limitation a respiration sensor may measure a user s breathing amplitude. The pulse oximetry sensor may measure and transmit information regarding the oxygen saturation SpO of a user s blood. Sensor array may transmit data streams containing acceleration SpO and respiration data of the user to analysis system which may monitor and automatically detect changes in the user s activity and respiration.

In particular embodiments analysis system may analyze accelerometer SpO and respiration data from sensor array to diagnose dyspnea in a user. As an example and not by way of limitation respiration data may include a user s breathing rate tidal volume respiration minute volume and breathing amplitude. A typical diagnostic test involves generating at least two data sets wherein each set is collected from the user when he is engaged in different levels of activity. In particular embodiments the first data set is collected from the user when he is resting establishing the user s baseline respiration with no activity and the second data set is collected from the user when he is engaged in a non strenuous activity. A typical non strenuous activity includes walking on a flat surface e.g. a floor or treadmill for several minutes. If the user s respiration increases to an abnormal level during the period of non strenuous activity this indicates dyspnea. Similarly if the user s respiration increases but the user s SpOdoes not increase this indicates dyspnea. A higher respiration corresponds to more severe dyspnea. In one embodiment the second data set may be collected when the user is engaged in a six minute flat surface walk wherein the user walks as far as possible for six minutes. If the person becomes out of breath or exhausted during the six minute walk this indicates dyspnea. The accuracy of diagnosis may generally be increased as the number of data sets is increased. Therefore multiple data sets may be generated and analyzed to diagnose dyspnea in a user. Typically the data sets will be collected from the user when he is engaged in varying levels of activity. Analysis system may then create a model of the user s respiration with respect to activity such as a graph or chart of activity versus respiration. Similarly analysis system may then create a model of the user s respiration with respect to SpO such as a graph or chart of SpOversus respiration. As an example and not by way of limitation if a respiration sensor measures a user s breathing rate as 20 breaths minute and pulse oximeter measures a user s SpOat 95 analysis system may determine that the user s SpOis abnormally low in comparison to the user s breathing rate and diagnose the user with dyspnea. As another example and not by way of limitation if a respiration sensor measure a user s breathing rate as 26 breaths minute a pulse oximeter measures the user s SpOat 95 and an accelerometer measures the user hurrying on a level surface for several minutes analysis system may determine that the user s breathing rate is abnormally high in comparison to the user s activity and diagnose the user with dyspnea. Alternatively analysis system may determine the that user s SpOis abnormally low in comparison to the user s breathing rate and diagnose the user with dyspnea.

In particular embodiments analysis system may reference the MRC Breathlessness Scale to assess the level of dyspnea in a person. The scale provides five different grades of dyspnea based on the circumstances in which it arises 

Analysis system may also use variations of the MRC Breathlessness Scale or other scales both qualitative and quantitative for assessing the severity of dyspnea in a person. For example an alternative scale could grade dyspnea severity on a scale of 0 to 100 allowing for a more refined or a more precise diagnosis of a person s dyspnea.

In particular embodiments analysis system may analyze accelerometer SpO and respiration data from sensor array to monitor the dyspnea grade of a user over time. Sensor array may intermittently or continuously transmit information regarding the user s activity SpO and respiration over time to analysis system . Analysis system may analyze one or more of these current data sets to determine the current dyspnea grade of the user. Analysis system may then access accelerometer pulse oximetry sensor respiration sensor and dyspnea grade data previously generated to compare it to current accelerometer pulse oximetry sensor respiration sensor and dyspnea grade data of the user. Based on the comparison analysis system may then determine whether the user s dyspnea grade has changed over time. Analysis system may also model the dyspnea grade with respect to time and identify any trends in dyspnea grade of the user. Based on these changes and trends in dyspnea grade various alerts or warnings may be provided to the user or to a third party e.g. the user s physician .

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a heart rate sensor that may measure the user s heart rate. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this heart rate data allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s dyspnea. For example if a user is driving an accelerometer may indicate the user is very active based on the acceleration and deceleration of the vehicle while a respiration sensor may indicate the user s respiration is relatively constant. In this case based on only the respiration and accelerometer data analysis system may generate a false negative diagnosis of dyspnea. By including a data stream containing information regarding the user s heart rate for example that the user s heart rate is steady while he is driving analysis system is less likely to generate a false negative or false positive dyspnea diagnosis.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes an electromyograph that may measure the electrical potential generated by a user s muscle cells. These signals may be analyzed to detect muscle activity and medical abnormalities. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this electromyograph data allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s dyspnea. In particular embodiments an electromyograph may be used in place of an accelerometer to diagnose and monitor dyspnea in a user.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a kinesthetic sensor that may measure the position and posture of a user s body. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this kinesthetic data allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s dyspnea.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes an arterial blood gas sensor that may measure the pH of a user s blood the partial pressure of COand O and bicarbonate levels. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this arterial blood gas data allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s dyspnea.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a user input sensor that may receive information regarding a user s subjective experience of breathing discomfort. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this information allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s dyspnea. For example a user may subjectively feel breathing discomfort even though his ventilation appears to increase normally in response to activity. In this case based on only respiration and accelerometer data analysis system may generate a false negative diagnosis of dyspnea. By including in its analysis a data stream containing information regarding the user s subjective experience of breathing discomfort analysis system is less likely to generate a false negative or false positive dyspnea diagnosis. In one embodiment a variation of mood sensor may be used to receive information regarding a user s subjective experience of breathing discomfort. The user may input breathing discomfort for example on activity input widget . The user could then input an intensity of the breathing discomfort for example on mood intensity widget . Mood sensor could then transmit a data stream based on this information to analysis system for further analysis.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a user input sensor that may receive information regarding treatments and therapies administered to the user. Analysis system may monitor data streams containing treatment information to determine whether the treatment is affecting the user s dyspnea. For example analysis system could monitor a user s activity and respiration over time to determine whether an oral opioid treatment is affecting the user s dyspnea. Based on any changes or trends in the user s dyspnea grade that correlate with the treatment various alerts or messages may be provided to the user or the user s physician.

Musculoskeletal pathologies or disorders can affect a person s muscles joints tendons ligaments. Musculoskeletal pathologies include dysfunctions and diseases of the skeletal muscles e.g. muscle atrophies muscular dystrophies congenital myopathies and diseases of the joints e.g. arthritis .

Myopathy is an example of a muscular pathology in which a person s muscle fibers do not function properly resulting in muscular dysfunction such as weakness spasticity pain cramping or flacidity. As used herein the term myopathy is used broadly to reference both neuromuscular and musculoskeletal myopathies including muscular dystrophy myotonia congenital myopathy mitochondrial myopathy familial periodic paralysis inflammatory myopathy metabolic myopathy dermatomyositis myalgia myositis rhabdomyolysis and other acquired myopathies. Myopathies may be acquired for example from alcohol abuse or as a side effect of statin treatment. Because different types of myopathies are caused by different pathways there is no single treatment for myopathy. Treatments range from treatment of the symptoms to very specific cause targeting treatments. Drug therapy physical therapy bracing for support surgery and even acupuncture are current treatments for a variety of myopathies.

Statins HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are a class of drug used to lower a person s plasma cholesterol level. Statins are important drugs for lowering lipids cholesterols and have been found to correlate with lower rates of cardiac events and cardiovascular mortality. Statins lower cholesterol by inhibiting HMG CoA reductase which is a rate limiting enzyme of the mevalonate pathway of cholesterol synthesis. Inhibition of this enzyme in the liver results in decreased cholesterol synthesis as well as up regulation of LDL receptor synthesis resulting in the increased clearance of low density lipoprotein LDL from the bloodstream. There are both fermentation derived and synthetically derived statins. Statins include atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin and simvastatin. There are also several combination therapies that include statins. These combination therapies include Vytorin simvastatin and ezetimibe Advicor lovastatin and niacin Caduet atorvastatin and amlodipine besylate and Simcor simvastatin and niacin .

Statins are generally well tolerated by patients. The most common adverse side effects are elevated liver enzymes levels and muscle related complaints. Other statin side effects include gastrointestinal issues liver enzyme derangements cognitive dysfunction hair loss and polyneuropathy. A more serious but rare statin side effect is rhabdomyolysis leading to acute renal failure. Symptoms of statin induced myopathy include fatigue muscle pain muscle tenderness muscle weakness muscle cramping and tendon pain. The muscle symptoms tend to be proximal symmetrical generalized and worse with exercise.

In general skeletal muscular damage correlates with increased levels of circulating creatine phosphokinase. Damaged muscle cells may rupture and release creatine phosphokinase. Current guidelines define myositis as muscle discomfort with a creatine phosphokinase level above ten times the upper limit of normal. However some studies show that a person may still experience statin based myopathy even though the person has normal or moderately elevated creatine phosphokinase levels. One theory is that statin induced myopathy may cause microscopic muscle damage that is not sufficient to break the cell open and cause a release of creatinine phosphokinase into the blood. Consequently statins may cause ongoing damage to the muscle at the microscopic level that is not revealed in the blood tests used to check for muscle damage. An alternate theory is that statins induce mitochondrial dysfunction which may not be associated with creatine phosphokinase release from muscle cells.

The mechanisms of statin induced myopathy are unknown. One proposal is that impaired synthesis of cholesterol leads to changes in the cholesterol in myocyte membranes that change the behavior of the membrane. However inherited disorders of the cholesterol synthesis pathway that reduce cholesterol concentrations are not associated with myopathy. Another proposed mechanism is that impaired synthesis of compounds in the cholesterol pathway particularly coenzyme Q10 could lead to impaired enzyme activity in mitochondria. Although low serum concentrations of coenzyme Q10 have been noted in patients taking statins concentrations in muscle have not consistently shown this pattern. A third proposed mechanism is depletion of isoprenoids lipids that are a product of the hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase pathway and that prevent myofibre apoptosis. A fourth proposed mechanism is that some patients have a genetic predisposition for statin induced myopathy. A common variation in the SLCO1B1 gene has been correlated with a significant increase in the risk of myopathy though the mechanism behind this increased risk is not known. Statin induced myopathy in a person may be caused by one or more of the above mechanisms or a yet unidentified mechanism.

Statin induced myopathy may be treated using a variety of methods. One treatment is to simply lower a patient s statin dose to the lowest dose required to achieve lipid management goals. As used herein dose refers to both the amount and frequency of a drug administered to a patient. This treatment is based on the clinical observation that the severity of myopathy typically correlates with increased statin dosage. Another treatment is to change the type of statin to a statin that presents a lower myopathy risk. This treatment is based on the theory that the risk of myopathy among statins may vary based on their water solubility and that more hydrophilic statins may have less muscle penetration. Therefore a patient experiencing statin induced myopathy with a fat soluble statin e.g. simvastatin rosuvastatin atorvastatin may change to a water soluble statin e.g. pravastatin fluvastatin . However some studies suggest that there is no clinical or epidemiological evidence supporting the differentiation of statin myotoxicity potential based on hydrophilicity. The potency of the statin also seems to be correlated with the risk of myopathy with the more potent stains having greater risk. Yet another treatment is to prescribe coenzyme Q10 supplements. This treatment is based on the theory that statin treatment inhibits the synthesis of coenzyme Q10 ubiquinone . However the efficacy of this treatment is unclear. A variety of other treatments are also possible for statin induced myopathy and the examples described above are not intended to be limiting.

In particular embodiments sensor network may analyze physiological psychological behavioral and environmental data steams to diagnose and monitor a musculoskeletal pathology in a user. In particular embodiments the musculoskeletal pathology is myopathy. In particular embodiments sensor array may include one or more accelerometers. In particular embodiments sensor array may also include one or more kinesthetic sensors. These sensors may be worn carried or otherwise affixed to the user. The accelerometers may measure and transmit information regarding the user s activity level and range of motion. The kinesthetic sensors may measure and transmit information regarding the position and posture of the user s body. Sensor array may transmit data streams containing acceleration data and kinesthetic data of the user to analysis system which may monitor and automatically detect changes in the user s activity level position and range of motion. Sensor array may also monitor and detect patterns of motion in a user.

In particular embodiments analysis system may analyze accelerometer data and or kinesthetic data from sensor array to diagnose a musculoskeletal pathology such as myopathy in a user. A typical diagnostic test involves generating at least two data sets wherein each set is collected from the user during different time periods. As an example and not by way of limitation statin based myopathy may be diagnosed by collecting data before and after a patient has used a statin treatment. A first data set may be collected from the user prior to beginning statin treatment establishing the user s baseline activity level and range of motion and a second data set may be collected from the user while he is undergoing statin treatment. If the user s activity level or range of motion decreases while he is undergoing statin treatment this indicates statin induced myopathy. A larger decrease in activity level or range of motion corresponds to more severe myopathy. As another example and not by way of limitation the first and second data sets may both be collected from the user while he is undergoing statin treatment but at different stages of treatment. For example the first data set may be generated while the user is taking a first type of statin and the second data set may be generated while the user is taking a second type of statin. The accuracy of diagnosis may generally be increased as the number of data sets is increased. Therefore multiple data sets may be generated and analyzed to diagnose myopathy in a user. Typically the data sets will be collected from the user during different time periods while he is undergoing statin treatment. Analysis system may then create a model of the user s myopathy with respect to activity level and range of motion such as a graph for chart of activity level or range of motion over time. Although this disclosure describes diagnosing particular types of musculoskeletal pathologies this disclosure contemplates diagnosing any suitable types of musculoskeletal pathologies. Moreover although this disclosure describes collecting data sets at particular time periods this disclosure contemplates collecting data sets at any suitable time periods.

The degree of musculoskeletal pathology can be assessed both by the number of symptoms present and their intensity. Analysis system may use a variety of scales both qualitative and quantitative for assessing the severity of musculoskeletal pathology in a person. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may report both muscle pain and weakness. A simple five point scale may be devised to quantitate the intensity of the various symptoms. Another user may report muscle cramping and weakness and yet another user may report all three symptoms. Each symptom may be scored for intensity and then algorithmically combined into a composite scale that could describe the degree of musculoskeletal pathology. As an example and not by way of limitation a scale could grade musculoskeletal pathology severity on a scale of 0 to 100 wherein 0 is no activity level or range of motion degradation and 100 is severe muscle pain with any movement. Analysis system may also use different scales for different types of musculoskeletal pathology. As an example and not by way of limitation a first scale could be used to grade myopathy severity and a second scale could be used to grade arthritis severity.

In particular embodiments analysis system may analyze accelerometer data and or kinesthetic data from sensor array to monitor the musculoskeletal pathology grade of a user over time. Sensor array may intermittently or continuously transmit information regarding the user s activity level and range of motion over time to analysis system . Analysis system may analyze one or more of these current data sets to determine the current musculoskeletal pathology grade of the user. Analysis system may then access accelerometer kinesthetic sensor and musculoskeletal pathology grade data previously generated to compare it to current accelerometer kinesthetic sensor and musculoskeletal pathology grade data of the user. Based on the comparison analysis system may then determine whether the user s musculoskeletal pathology grade has changed over time. Analysis system may also model the musculoskeletal pathology grade with respect to time and identify any trends in musculoskeletal pathology grade of the user. Based on these changes and trends in musculoskeletal pathology grade various alerts or warnings may be provided to the user or to a third party e.g. the user s physician .

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a user input sensor that may receive information regarding a user s muscle complaints. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this information allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s musculoskeletal pathology. For example a user may feel muscle pain even though his activity level and range of motion appear unchanged with treatment. In this case based on only accelerometer or kinesthetic data analysis system may generate a false negative diagnosis of a musculoskeletal pathology. By including in its analysis a data stream containing information regarding the user s muscle complaints analysis system is less likely to generate a false negative or false positive diagnosis. In one embodiment a variation of mood sensor may be used to receive information regarding a user s muscle complaints. The user may input the type of muscle complaint for example on activity input widget . Muscle complaints could include fatigue muscle pain muscle tenderness muscle weakness muscle cramping and tendon pain. The user could then input an intensity of the muscle complaint for example on mood intensity widget . Mood sensor could then transmit a data stream based on this information to analysis system for further analysis.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes a user input sensor that may receive information regarding treatments administered to the user such as the type and dose of statin treatment administered to the user. Analysis system may monitor data streams containing treatment information to determine whether the treatment is affecting the user s statin induced myopathy. For example analysis system could monitor a user s activity level and range of motion over time to determine whether the statin is causing myopathy. Based on any changes or trends in the user s activity level or range of motion that correlate with the statin treatment various alerts or messages may be provided to the user or the user s physician. In particular embodiments the prescribing physician may change or modify the user s statin treatment in response to any changes or trends in the user s myopathy. For example if the user s myopathy is worsening the user s physician may prescribe a lower dose statin treatment prescribe a different type of statin or prescribe a different class of medication. In alternative embodiments sensor array may include a data feed that transmits information regarding treatments administered to the user. Although this disclosure describes receiving information regarding particular types of treatments for particular types of musculoskeletal pathologies this disclosure contemplates receiving information regarding any suitable types of treatments for any suitable types of musculoskeletal pathologies.

In particular embodiments sensor array also includes an electromyograph that may measure the electrical potential generated by a user s muscle cells. These signals may be analyzed to detect muscle activity and medical abnormalities. Analysis system may monitor a data stream containing this electromyograph data allowing it to more accurately diagnose and monitor a user s musculoskeletal pathologies. In particular embodiments an electromyograph may be used in place of or in addition to an accelerometer to diagnose and monitor musculoskeletal pathologies in a user.

While this disclosure has focused on statin induced myopathy this disclosure is intended to encompass the diagnosis and monitoring of any type of musculoskeletal pathology. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the embodiments disclosed herein may be used to diagnosis and monitor a variety of musculoskeletal pathologies such as for example arthritis muscular dystrophy myotonia congenital myopathy mitochondrial myopathy familial periodic paralysis inflammatory myopathy metabolic myopathy dermatomyositis myalgia myositis rhabdomyolysis and other acquired myopathies.

Display system may render visualize display message notify and publish to one or more users based on the one or more analysis outputs from analysis system . An analysis output from analysis system may be transmitted to display system over any suitable medium. Display system may include any suitable I O device that may enable communication between a person and display system . For example display system may include a video monitor speaker vibrator touch screen printer another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. Display system may be any computing device with a suitable I O device such as computer system .

Display system comprises one or more local display systems and or one or more remote display systems . Where display system comprises multiple subsystems e.g. local display systems and remote display systems display of analysis outputs may occur on one or more subsystems. In one embodiment local display systems and remote display systems may present identical displays based on the analysis output. In another embodiment local display systems and remote display systems may present different displays based on the analysis output.

In particular embodiments a user input sensor in sensor array may also function as display system . Any client system with a suitable I O device may serve as a user input sensor and display system . For example a smart phone with a touch screen may function both as a user input sensor and as display system .

Display system may display an analysis output in real time as it is received from analysis system . In particular embodiments real time analysis of data streams from sensor array by analysis system allows the user to receive real time information about his health status. It is also possible for the user to receive real time feedback from display system e.g. warnings about health risks recommending therapies etc. .

One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that display system could perform a variety of display related processes using a variety of techniques and that the example embodiments disclosed herein are not meant to be limiting.

In particular embodiments display system may render and visualize data based on analysis output from analysis system . Display system may render and visualize using any suitable means including computer system with a suitable I O device such as a video monitor speaker touch screen printer another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Rendering is the process of generating an image from a model. The model is a description of an object in a defined language or data structure. A description may include color size orientation geometry viewpoint texture lighting shading and other object information. The rendering may be any suitable image such as a digital image or raster graphics image. Rendering may be performed on any suitable computing device.

Visualization is the process of creating images diagrams or animations to communicate information to a user. Visualizations may include diagrams images objects graphs charts lists maps text etc. Visualization may be performed on any suitable device that may present information to a user including a video monitor speaker touch screen printer another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments rendering may be performed partially on analysis system and partially on display system . In other embodiments rendering is completely performed on analysis system while visualization is performed on display system .

In particular embodiments display system may message notify and publish data based on analysis output from analysis system . Display system may message and publish using any suitable means including email instant message text message audio message page MMS text social network message another suitable messaging or publishing means or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments display system may publish some or all of the analysis output such that the publication may be viewed by one or more third parties. In one embodiment display system may automatically publish the analysis output to one or more websites. For example a user of mood sensor may automatically have their inputs into the sensor published to social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. .

In particular embodiments display system may send or message some or all of the analysis output to one or more third parties. In one embodiment display system may automatically send the analysis output to one or more healthcare providers. For example a user wearing a portable blood glucose monitor may have all of the data from that sensor transmitted to his doctor. In another embodiment display system will only send the analysis output to a healthcare provider when one or more threshold criteria are met. For example a user wearing a portable blood glucose monitor may not have any data from that sensor transmitted to his doctor unless his blood glucose data shows that he is severely hypoglycemic e.g. below 2.8 mmol l . In particular embodiments display system may message one or more alerts to a user or third party based on the analysis output. An alert may contain a notice warning or recommendation for the user or third party. For example a user wearing a blood glucose monitor may receive an alert if his blood glucose level shows that he is moderately hypoglycemic e.g. below 3.5 mmol l warning of the hypoglycemia and recommending that he eat something.

In particular embodiments display system may display one or more therapies to a user based on analysis output from analysis system . In particular embodiments these are recommended therapies for the user. In other embodiments these are therapeutic feedbacks that provide a direct therapeutic benefit to the user. Display system may deliver a variety of therapies such as interventions biofeedback breathing exercises progressive muscle relaxation exercises physical therapy presentation of personal media e.g. music personal pictures etc. offering an exit strategy e.g. calling the user so he has an excuse to leave a stressful situation references to a range of psychotherapeutic techniques and graphical representations of trends e.g. illustrations of health metrics over time cognitive reframing therapy and other therapeutic feedbacks. Display system may also provide information on where the user can seek other therapies such as specific recommendations for medical care providers hospitals etc.

In particular embodiments display system may transform select or represent one or more data streams or analysis outputs with an implicit or explicit geometric structure to allow the exploration analysis and understanding of the data.

In particular embodiments a user may modify the visualization in real time thus affording perception of patterns and structural relations in the data streams or analysis outputs presented by display system .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture USA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclsoure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

