---

title: Universal address book
abstract: An embodiment is directed to synchronizing a universal address book located in a database amongst a first user and a second user. The first user sends an initialization message to the database and an invitation message to the second user. The first user receives an acceptance message from the second user and sends an update message to the database. The initialization message includes current personal data of the first user, the invitation message includes a database pointer, and the update message changes the personal data of the first user in the database and prompts the database to inform the second user of the changed data of the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442953&OS=09442953&RS=09442953
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09442953
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100416
---
The invention relates to wireless communication systems and a universal address book that can be utilized to manage a variety of user contact information.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 EV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals that can be commonly associated such as within a given cell served by a given service provider and the like while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals that otherwise share a common association. However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group includes only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals sharing a common association similar to a broadcast.

In addition to various transmission schemes such as unicast multicast broadcast that may be used a call may generally be classified as a half duplex or a full duplex communication for at least some of the participants. A PTT is a half duplex call that corresponds to a server mediated communication between two or more identified access terminals regardless of the various configurations used to conduct the PTT calls. Full duplex calls can generally include VoIP calls and other calls that allow simultaneous transmission and reception.

Users of wireless devices have many methods of communicating including traditional Voice Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Email and Voice over Internet Protocol Session Initiation Protocol VoIP SIP providers. Furthermore soon each user may also have PTT PTX options. Further each user may have multiple accounts with multiple providers for example business and personal use which results in an explosion of per user contact methods which are difficult to manage in an integrated fashion on a wireless device. Users may need to be able to manage all of these different per user contact methods in an integrated fashion from their mobile device or from a web based application including the ability to sync with local contact management applications.

Personal Information Managers PIMs such as for example Outlook by Microsoft Corporation can synchronize with wireless devices but often not with a large network provider or global address book. Further most PIM software does not natively support synching a large number of communication methods to a wireless device in a predictable fashion.

Conventional cellular phones generally have an address book which can be locally stored or can be stored by the network such as in the GMS Subscriber Identity Module in a GSM network. The address books of individual cellular phones are typically not synchronized in a useful manner to the address books of other phones. Further synchronization in the form of a very simple point to point provider synchronization exists and can either be synchronized to a network provider such as the address book back up service offered by Verizon Corporation or to a back up storage medium. Cross synchronization amongst users however is not common.

Conventional vCards can be sent from one party to another containing name and address information phone numbers URLs logos photographs and even audio clips. vCard is a file format standard for electronic business cards. vCards are often attached to e mail messages but can be exchanged in other ways such as on the World Wide Web. However vCard data can quickly become outdated inaccurate and it is not easy to update without sending the card.

Thus a need exists for managing different per user contact methods in an integrated fashion from a mobile device or from a web based application including the ability to synchronize with local contact management applications. Further a need exists for providing a universal address book subject to privacy restrictions that can provide a source of known good directory information from the wireless carrier or other provider. For example permission to access a person s contact record may be determined by a users relationship in a social networking application such as MySpace or Facebook. Furthermore a universal address book can allow wireless carriers to inter operate with each other in a seamless way providing a much cleaner and faster user experience.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are directed to systems and method for synchronizing a universal address book located in a database amongst a first user and a second user. In accordance with various aspects an initialization message can be sent to the database from a first access terminal. The initialization message can include personal data of the first user. An invitation message can be sent to the second access terminal. The invitation message can include a database pointer. An update message can be sent to the database from the first access terminal. The update message changes the personal data of the first user in the database and informs the second access terminal of the updated personal data of the first user.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further include but is not limited to auxiliary devices that operate independently or in connection with computers such as PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. Additionally devices that can act as access terminals can include laptop integrated modems PDAs such as the BlackBerry by Research In Motion and the Pre by Palm Inc. or any device of which may be used to access database or application servers using IP. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN by way of the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server may send unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and may send multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Referring to an access terminal which in the present example can be a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory and user data such as contact information associated with an address book or the like as will be described in greater detail hereinafter. It should be noted that the local database can refer generally to a data store including an application that allows structured access to the contents thereof and that can reside in memory such as a flash memory device but can the database can be associated with any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to an exemplary network illustrating a plurality of access terminals i.e. AT AT AT AT and AT . . . N communicating with wireless communication system . Carrier networks and can be connected to various access terminals i.e. AT AT AT AT and AT . . . N via air interface and RAN . Further carrier networks and can also be connected to each other via gateway or routing unit . Each of the access terminals i.e. AT AT AT AT and AT . . . N may communicate with database s and or and or each other. For example access terminals AT and AT can be connected to network via air interface and RAN and access terminals AT and AT . . . N can be connected to network via air interface and RAN . Further a terminal AT can connect directly to the Internet and through Internet can then connect to any of the system components described above. Carrier networks and can include PDSN BSN an application server connection to the Internet and a database . However database and other components may be located outside the carrier network in alternative embodiments. Accordingly though not shown all or a portion of the carrier networks and can be bypassed and an exemplary system as described herein can be coupled for example to access terminals via the Internet . It should further be understood that a terminal AT can connect to the internet indirectly and via other networks not shown . Terminal AT can communicate with databases and or database via internet .

Referring to RAN PDSN BSN Application Server and Internet of network and correspond to similar elements within respectively. Accordingly a further description of RAN PDSN BSN Application Server and Internet has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

Gateway or routing unit can translate dissimilar protocols and media codec types to allow all users and devices to interact with each other with flexibility. For example media transformations can include Send Email SMS to Traditional Voice or PTT via a speech synthesizer convert MMS to from Push to Picture support connectivity from Voice PTT to multiple VoIP providers such as Skype Vonage and the like voice clips attached to an email played as messages to Voice Mail or PTT. Gateway or routing unit can alternatively be located within the same carrier network to provide translation services to customers having dissimilar devices with different service requirements within the same carrier network.

Database and can contain a universal address book which can function as a global phone book that subject to privacy restrictions can provide a source of current directory information from wireless carriers or other network providers. Database and database can include a global structured collection of each users contact data along with all methods of reaching each individual contact. Further database and database can utilize the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP . LDAP is an application protocol for querying and modifying directory services running over Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . Each individual contact entry in database and can be arranged in groups and different permission levels can be set for each individual contact entry by the owner of each contact entry.

In the above described embodiment a universal address book application or client may reside on any of the access terminals i.e. AT AT and AT . For example the wireless client may include Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW and or JAVA for accessing this database. BREW is a software platform that can download and run small programs for playing games sending messages sharing photos and the like. The universal address book application or client can integrate seamlessly with the access terminals user interface UI and address book providing all of the standard add and dial functions. Further the universal address book application or client can allow a user to send a push activated calling card to another user in order to for example associate them as friends or associates in database and . It should be noted that a push activated service such as push to talk PTT can refer to push activation of any service such as push to talk push to video push to picture or the like in accordance with available capabilities and features that can associate an action with a push of the operative button. For example after selecting a person from the UI the user can be presented with a list of communication methods that can be supported for the selected user. Therefore the user would not have to use cryptic addresses and URLs in order to communicate with the selected user.

In the present embodiment the user can also manage upload download backup and sync contacts even if they do not have access to their wireless device via a web based portal on terminal AT into database s and or . Assuming AT is another computer with Internet access through for example a web browser access to contact information for synchronizing or other activities as discussed and described herein can be made through the Internet via a separate wired or wireless service provider.

Referring to AT AT and AT are illustrated as wireless mobile devices AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station and AT . . . N is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of AT s that may be implemented within the system.

Referring to and exemplary call flows are illustrated where pull and push technology is utilized for delivering update messages to a universal address book exemplary embodiment. The exemplary embodiment described in and illustrate access terminal AT communicating with access terminal AT via Air Interface RAN and Carrier Network . Further in this exemplary embodiment both access terminals AT and AT can be attached to the same carrier network and as a result database . For example access terminal AT may publish personal information associated with a user thereof to database using either a web interface or an applet on his her mobile device or access terminal. Afterwards access terminal AT can invite other users to receive access terminal AT s information from database . Database can then communicate with each access terminal within access terminal AT s contacts by either a pull or a push technology in order to keep track of any database changes for each access terminal.

For example the embodiment described in can be characterized as pull technology. In pull technology the access terminal can request the status of the database to account for any changes made to the database and the database responds by providing a status update. For example the embodiment described in can be characterized as push technology. In a push technology the database can send the status of the database to account for any changes made to the database without receiving a status inquiry message type from the access terminal.

Referring to an exemplary call flow is illustrated where pull technology is utilized for delivering update messages to a universal address book exemplary embodiment. In particular pull request is triggered by notify as will be described in greater detail herein below.

Accordingly the access terminal AT can send an initialization message to the database . For example the initialization message can allow access terminal AT to enter his her personal information to database using either a web interface or an applet on the access terminal AT. Further access terminal AT may enter other users i.e. access terminal AT s contacts data to database select other users assign permissions for each user in order to allow them to see certain aspects of access terminal AT s personal information in database and organize the users into various groups arrangements. For example the personal information associated with the user of access terminal AT can include work telephone number s home telephone number s cellular telephone number s work email address personal email address postal address instant messaging address and the like.

Next the access terminal AT can send an invitation message to the access terminal AT . The invitation message may contain a pointer which points to the location of access terminal AT s contact information within database and also to the location of access terminal AT s contact information within access terminal AT s database entry entries. Further the pointer may identify access terminal AT to access terminal AT. However the permission level s set above can determine the amount of information that access terminal AT may view of access terminal AT. For example the invitation message type format can include SMS MMS Email VoIP SIP PTT PTX options including legacy iDEN QChat and the like.

Afterwards the access terminal AT can accept or deny the invitation message by sending a response to the invitation message to the access terminal AT . In this exemplary embodiment the access terminal AT accepts the invitation from access terminal AT by sending an acceptance message to access terminal AT .

Further the access terminal AT may also accept or deny the invitation message by sending a message to the database . In this exemplary embodiment the access terminal AT accepts the invitation from access terminal AT by sending an acceptance message to database . Therefore as access terminal AT updates his her contact information in the future the updates can be delivered to access terminal AT via a pull push method. As a result access terminal AT can always have the most recent version of access terminal AT s contact information. Further access terminal AT may update database entries associated with itself that are located within access terminal AT s database entries. For example the database entry that access terminal AT entered that is associated with access terminal AT may be inaccurate or of an outdated data type i.e. a cell phone number . In such an instance the data associated with the data type within database is corrected for example by AT.

Subsequently the access terminal AT can send an update message to the database if any of access terminal AT s data has changed . For example access terminal AT may have changed his her cell phone number. The update message described herein can notify the database of the cell phone number change or any other changes . The database can then communicate with each access terminal within access terminal AT s contacts by either a pull or a push method in order to keep track of any database changes for each access terminal. The embodiment described in can be characterized as a pull method. In a pull method the access terminal can request the status of the database to account for any changes made to the database and the database responds by providing a status update. The embodiment described in can be characterized as a push method. In a push method the database can send the status of the database to account for any changes made to the database without receiving a status inquiry message type from the access terminal.

Next the access terminal AT can send a poll message to the database . The poll message sent by access terminal AT can inquire about any changes made to access terminal AT s database entry entries. For example access terminal AT may have changed his her cell phone number. Further the poll message can be sent periodically in order to prevent the contact information from becoming outdated stale. For example the poll message can be sent every 30 minutes every day once a week or the like.

Afterwards the database can respond to the poll message by sending a response message to access terminal AT indicating the status of access terminal AT s database entry entries .

In the database can send a notify message to the access terminal AT. The notify message can inform the access terminal AT that the data contained in database of access terminal AT has changed. Accordingly the notify message may contain a pointer which points to the location of contact information within database of access terminal AT and also to the location of contact information associated with database entry entries for access terminal AT that are located within access terminal AT.

Next the access terminal AT can send a request message to the database . The request message sent by access terminal AT can be used to inquire about any changes made to database entry entries associated with access terminal AT. For example a user associated with access terminal AT may have changed his her cell phone number. Further access terminal AT may update database entries associated with itself that are located as database entries within access terminal AT. For example the database entry associated with access terminal AT may be inaccurate or may be associated with an outdated data type such as a cell phone number. Access terminal AT may correct the inaccurate data type within database . Afterwards the database can respond to the request message by sending a response message to access terminal AT indicating the status of the database entries associated with access terminal AT at .

It should be noted by way of summary that message is typically a very concise notification that an update is available for a particular contact. A given AT may receive multiple messages and may also be busy and not able to respond immediately. The message is a request to send the update triggering the message which can be much larger than for example the message. The above described messaging allows an AT to regulate the amount of incoming data so as to avoid being overwhelmed if busy with other tasks and to control the amount of bandwidth used and prevent link congestion. It should further be noted that in accordance with various exemplary embodiments users own their own information and can change the master copy of the information in the database which causes the information to be changed everywhere else such as in other ATs or the like. Changes to information about owned by others would not replicate to other ATs. The concept is that users do not have the right to send updates concerning others because that information is owned by the user it describes.

Referring to exemplary call flows are illustrated where pull and push technology is utilized for delivering update messages to a universal address book exemplary embodiment. The exemplary embodiment described in illustrate access terminal AT communicating with access terminal AT via Air Interface RAN Carrier Network and Carrier Network . Further in this exemplary embodiment access terminal AT can be attached to carrier network and access terminal AT can be attached to carrier network . Furthermore carrier network may contain database and carrier network may contain database .

In an exemplary embodiment access terminal AT may publish his her personal information to database using either a web interface or an applet on his her mobile device or access terminal. Afterwards access terminal AT can invite other users to receive access terminal AT s information from database . Database can then communicate with each access terminal within access terminal AT s contacts by either a pull or a push technology in order to keep track of any database changes for each access terminal.

For example the embodiment described in can be characterized as pull technology and the embodiment described in can be characterized as push technology. In short the definitive or authoritative copy of the data associated with each user is stored in the respective home carrier database. In the exemplary multi network system as discussed and described herein a pointer or indirect reference to the location of the home database for each user can be provided. In other words it would be possible that an AT would encounter a pointer that refers to one database to get updated information associated with user A and a different pointer that refers to another database for updated information associated with user B.

Referring to an exemplary call flow is illustrated where pull technology is utilized for delivering update messages to a universal address book exemplary embodiment. Referring to correspond to through of respectively. Accordingly a further description of through has been omitted for the sake of brevity. However the exemplary embodiment and call flow illustrated in may contain differences with . For example illustrates that access terminal AT is connected to Carrier Network . Therefore the call flow illustrated by may also traverse gateway and Carrier Network

Referring to an exemplary call flow is illustrated where push technology is utilized for delivering update messages to another universal address book exemplary embodiment. Referring to correspond to through of respectively. Accordingly a further description of through has been omitted for the sake of brevity. However the exemplary embodiment and call flow illustrated in may contain differences with . For example illustrates that access terminal AT is connected to Carrier Network . Therefore the call flow illustrated by may also traverse gateway and Carrier Network

Referring to an exemplary access terminal is illustrated that is utilized for sending receiving update messages to a universal address book exemplary embodiment and illustrates an exemplary user interface and navigational window of the exemplary universal address book of database .

The exemplary access terminal illustrated in can be utilized to send receive commands to the universal address book located in database . Access terminal can include a display that can be utilized to view navigational window s .

Referring to an exemplary user interface of access terminal and navigational window are illustrated. Navigational window can include an indicator or pointer . Pointer can be utilized in conjunction with user interface in order to operate any of the functions of the universal address book via access terminal . It should be noted that indicator or pointer is a user interface component used to point to objects within navigational window and should be distinguished from the pointer which can be a software value or hardware register value used to provide a reference to a specific database where information associated with a specific access terminal can be found.

Navigational window can display contact details for each contact entered in database . For example in this exemplary illustration the navigational window can display a current contact entry and a function button .

The current contact entry can contain a variety of data types for each database entry. For example the current contact entry can include the name of the current contact home address work address home phone number work phone number personal email address work email address images of the current contact videos of the current contact group memberships and permissions usernames for Instant Messaging services such as AIM Yahoo Google ICQ and usernames for social network services such as MySpace Facebook and the like. For example in the present exemplary illustration the current contact entry can display a current user named John S. with a home address of 300 Lake Terrace and a personal email address of johns xxx.com a work address of 115 Park Drive and a work email address of john s xyyz.com. 

The function button can perform a variety of functions that allow the user to add edit contact entries. For example the function button can include add contact button edit contact button change permissions button group button and erase contact button . Though not shown other functions are possible such as functions to edit one s own personal information and push updates to the central database.

The add contact button can be utilized to add contacts in database . The edit contact button can be utilized to edit a current contact contained in the database .

The change permissions button can be utilized to change a current contact entry permissions level setting. For example the permission level setting can be utilized by the user to assign permissions for each database entry contact in order to allow each contact to see certain aspects of access terminal AT s personal information in database and organize the contacts into various groups arrangements. Therefore the explicit permission level s setting set above can determine the amount of information that contacts may view of access terminal AT administrator . For example access terminal AT can have my access terminal AT work cell phone and access terminal AT can have my access terminal AT home phone.

The group button can be utilized to organize the contact entries into various groups arrangements. The erase contact button can be utilized to erase any contact entries contained in database .

It will be appreciated that the contact updates can be conducted in accordance with an exemplary procedure as illustrated for example in . After start at where a User is authenticated and logs on to an access terminal such as AT the initial configuration such as the contact information of User can be entered for example into AT at . The User can further enter contact information associated with AT such as a phone number from a variety of sources such as SMS message direct entry call history log address book or the like at . AT can then send a permission request to AT with information such as contact information for the purpose of routing the request and for example a pointer to a local database residing on AT using SMS or the like at . AT can receive the request and display a dialog box that will prompt the user whether or not to accept the request at . Alternatively the request can be automatically accepted based on a configuration such as the configuration performed at .

The dialog results in a decision whether or not to accept the request . If the request is accepted the pointer can be added to the local database of AT and sends an acceptance to AT at . In handling updates several approaches can be used at . For example in a polling or pulling mode AT can poll AT and other contacts periodically sending a pointer and timestamp of the information stored for that user such as weekly. In a push mode AT simply waits for update notifications from AT that User information has changed. In a hybrid mode periodic checks can be conducted such as daily with asynchronous update notifications from AT can be performed. It can be determined whether new information is available at . If newer information is available the a request for a full update from AT can be made whereupon the full information can be stored in the local database of AT at .

In the event that the request for permission to update at is rejected AT can send a rejection message to AT at and User of AT can be notified of the rejection at . It will be appreciated that for example User can update contact information locally at any time and AT can send an update pending notification to AT and other contacts indicating that new information is available at .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media can includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for synchronizing a universal address book located in a database amongst a first user and a second user. The media can contain instructions which when read by a processor cause the processor to carry out various operations as follows. The first user sends an initialization message to the database the first user sends an invitation message to the second user the first user receives an acceptance message from the second user and the first user sends an update message to the database. The initialization message includes current personal data of the first user the invitation message includes a database pointer and the update message changes the personal data of the first user in the database and informs the second user of the changed data of the first user. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

