---

title: Redirection gateway
abstract: A redirection gateway is provided that bridges connections between redirection server computers and redirection client computers. The redirection gateway communicates with a redirection gateway client executing on a redirection client computer. In response to receiving a request from the redirection gateway client application, the redirection gateway establishes a connection to a redirection server application. The redirection gateway client application then causes an appropriate redirection client application for connecting to the redirection server application to be executed. The redirection gateway client application also instructs the redirection client application to connect to the redirection gateway. Once a connection between the redirection gateway and the redirection client application has been established, the redirection gateway bridges its connection to the redirection server application with its connection to the redirection client application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010684&OS=08010684&RS=08010684
owner: American Megatrends, Inc.
number: 08010684
owner_city: Norcross
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 768 969 filed Jun. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 673 056 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Redirection programs allow the remote operation of computer systems. These solutions utilize a redirection server application program executing on a controlled computer to capture video screen application programming interface API calls and to transmit the captured calls to a redirection client application executing on a remote computer. The redirection client application replays the captured API calls so that the display is shown at the remote computer. Redirection programs also transmit keyboard and mouse data between the controlled computer and the remote computer so that a user can interact with the controlled computer as if she was located proximately to the controlled computer.

One category of redirection programs utilizes the remote desktop protocol RDP . The RDP protocol is commonly utilized by computers executing the WINDOWS operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. Another category of redirection software packages utilizes the virtual network computing VNC protocol. The VNC protocol is typically utilized by computer systems executing the UNIX operating system or one of its derivative operating systems. The RDP protocol and the VNC protocol are however incompatible. As a result redirection client applications utilizing one of the protocols cannot communicate with redirection server applications that utilize the other protocol.

In many server installations it is common to utilize some server computers that execute the RDC protocol for console redirection and other server computers that execute the VNC protocol for console redirection. As a result when it is necessary to connect to a server computer via redirection a user must manually determine the appropriate redirection client application to utilize for the connection. Often this is performed by manually maintaining a list of all of the server computers that identifies the server computer and the type of redirection protocol utilized by each server. This can be a time consuming and error prone process.

It is with respect to these considerations and others that the various embodiments described below have been made.

In accordance with the embodiments and implementations described herein a redirection gateway apparatus is provided that bridges connections between redirection server computers and redirection client computers. Through the use of the redirection gateway and a redirection gateway client application executing on a redirection client computer the need to manually maintain data identifying the type of redirection protocol utilized by each redirection server computer is eliminated.

According to one aspect a redirection gateway is provided that operates in conjunction with one or more redirection server computers and one or more redirection client computers. Each redirection server computer executes a redirection server application. Each of the server computers may utilize a different incompatible redirection protocol such as RDP or VNC. The redirection gateway includes functionality for discovering each of the redirection server applications and for identifying the type of redirection protocol utilized by each of the discovered applications.

The redirection client computer includes a redirection gateway client application and one or more redirection client applications. The redirection client applications are utilized to establish a redirection session to an appropriate redirection server application and may utilize different incompatible redirection protocols. For instance a single redirection client computer may include a RDP redirection client application a VNC redirection client application and a redirection client application that utilizes another type of redirection protocol.

The redirection gateway communicates with the redirection gateway client executing on the redirection client computer. In particular the redirection gateway transmits data to the redirection gateway client that identifies the discovered redirection server applications and the type of redirection protocol utilized by each server. The redirection gateway client application then displays this information and allows the selection of one of the identified servers. In response to receiving such a selection the redirection gateway client application transmits a request to the redirection gateway to connect to the selected redirection server application. In response to receiving the request the redirection gateway establishes a connection to the redirection server application.

Once the connection between the redirection gateway and the redirection server application has been established the redirection gateway client application executes the appropriate redirection client application for connecting to the redirection server application on the redirection client computer. For instance if the redirection server application utilizes the VNC protocol the redirection gateway client application will launch a VNC redirection client application on the redirection client computer. The redirection gateway client application will also instruct the redirection client application to connect to the redirection gateway.

Once a connection between the redirection gateway and the redirection client application has been established the redirection gateway bridges its connection to the redirection server application with its connection to the redirection client application. Through the bridged connection provided by the gateway data received from the redirection server application is passed to the redirection client application and data received from the redirection client application is passed to the redirection server application. The redirection gateway is transparent to both the redirection server application and the redirection client application. The redirection gateway can support many such bridged connections between redirection server applications and redirection client applications.

In order to identify the various bridged connections the redirection server maintains data that uniquely identifies each connection. For instance in one implementation the redirection gateway maintains an Internet protocol IP address and network socket number for the redirection gateway client application an IP address and socket number for the redirection client application and an IP address network port number and socket number for the redirection server application. The redirection gateway may also maintain a flag for each connection indicating whether the session has been established.

The subject matter described herein may also be implemented as an apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable medium. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process.

These and various other features as well as advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings.

Technologies are provided herein for implementing a redirection gateway. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of the various implementations provided herein and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative operating environment for the embodiments presented herein will be described. As shown in a redirection gateway is disclosed herein that is operative to provide a bridge between one or more redirection server applications A C and one or more redirection client applications A C. As shown in the redirection gateway connects to one or more redirection server computers A C via a network A. The redirection gateway also connects to a redirection client computer via a network B. The networks A and B may comprise a local or wide area network including the Internet and other networks not shown in may also be utilized. The networks A and B may also comprise the same network.

The redirection server computers A C comprise computing systems operative to execute redirection server applications A C. The redirection server applications A C are in band console redirection software packages that generate remote console data once an operating system has been loaded. The redirection server applications A C communicate with a compatible redirection client application A C. Through the redirection client applications A C screen displays generated by the server computers A C may be viewed remotely at the redirection client computer . Moreover the redirection client applications A C may be utilized to control the operation of a server computer by providing mouse and keyboard input generated at the redirection client computer to the controlled server computer.

It should be appreciated that server computers executing the UNIX or LINUX operating systems often utilize a virtual network computing VNC redirection server application B. Server computers executing the WINDOWS operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION frequently utilize a remote desktop protocol RDP redirection server application C. It should be appreciated that the VNC and RDP protocols perform similar functions but are incompatible. Therefore a VNC redirection client application B must be utilized to connect to the VNC redirection server application B and a RDP redirection client application A must be utilized to connect to a RDP redirection server application A. It should also be appreciated that a redirection server application C and a redirection client application C compatible with another type of redirection protocol may also be utilized.

According to aspects of the embodiments presented herein the redirection gateway executes a redirection gateway server application that provides the functionality described herein for providing a network bridge between the servers A C and the redirection client computer . As will be described in greater detail herein the redirection gateway server application provides functionality for discovering each of the redirection server applications A C and the type of protocol utilized by each of the applications. Data identifying each of the discovered redirection server applications and the type of redirection protocol utilized by each of the discovered applications is provided to the redirection gateway client application .

The redirection gateway client application executes on the redirection client computer . The redirection gateway client application is operative to communicate with the redirection gateway server application . In particular the redirection gateway client application is operative to provide a list of the discovered servers to a user and allow the user to select one of the servers for redirection. In response to such a selection the redirection gateway client communicates the selection to the redirection gateway server application . The redirection gateway server application then instructs the redirection gateway application to cause the appropriate redirection client application A C for connecting to the selected server to be executed. The redirection gateway server application also instructs the redirection gateway application to instruct the executed redirection client application A C to establish a connection to the redirection gateway .

Once the appropriate redirection client application A C has established a connection to the redirection gateway the redirection gateway establishes a connection to the redirection server application A C executing on the selected server computer . When a connection has been established to the selected server computer the redirection gateway bridges its connection with the redirection client application A C with its connection to the selected server computer. In this manner the appropriate redirection client application is executed at the redirection client computer and connected to the selected server computer in an automated fashion without requiring a user to select the appropriate redirection client application A C. Multiple connections may be made in a similar manner between two or more of the redirection client applications A C and two or more of the redirection server applications A C. Additional details regarding this process will be provided below with respect to .

Referring now to details will be provided regarding a router table maintained by the redirection gateway server application . As discussed briefly above the redirection gateway server application may maintain multiple simultaneous connections between the redirection server applications A C and the redirection client applications A C. The router table is maintained by the redirection gateway server application to identify each of the connections and to route data between the appropriate clients and servers. A row is created in the router table for each connection.

Each row in the router table includes a field A for storing a network address such as an IP address for the gateway client application and a field B that is utilized to store data identifying the network socket number for the gateway client application . Each row in the router table also includes a field C for storing the network address of the redirection client application and a field D for storing the network socket number for the redirection client application . Each row in the router table also includes a field E for storing the network address of the redirection server application a field F for storing the network port number for the redirection server application and a field G for storing the network socket number for the redirection server application . A field H is also present in each row of the router table for storing a flag that indicates whether the corresponding session has been established. Additional details regarding the use of each of the fields A H will be provided below with respect to .

Referring now to the illustrative routines and will be described in detail illustrating the operation of the redirection client computer and the redirection gateway respectively. The logical operations of the various implementations presented herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system on which the embodiments described herein are implemented. Accordingly the logical operations making up the implementations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims attached hereto

The routine begins at operation where the redirection client application connects to the redirection gateway . Once a connection has been established the redirection client application requests data identifying the available redirection server computers A C and the protocols utilized by each of the identified redirection server computers. This occurs at operation . The routine begins at operation where the redirection gateway discovers the redirection server computers A C and the protocol utilized by the redirection server application executing on each discovered server computer. The routine then continues to operation where the redirection gateway provides data identifying each of the discovered redirection server computers A C and the discovered protocol to the redirection gateway client application . The redirection gateway client application receives this information at operation of the routine .

From operation the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway client application receives a request to initiate a redirection session with one of the discovered server computers A C. As mentioned above the redirection gateway client application may provide a user interface that includes the available server computers and that allows a user to select a server to connect with. In response to receiving such a request the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway client application connects to the redirection gateway server application . The redirection gateway server application establishes the connection with the redirection gateway client application at operation of the routine .

From operation the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application creates a new entry in the router table for the new connection. The redirection gateway server application also inserts the IP address and socket number utilized by the redirection gateway client application into the fields A and B of the router table respectively. The routine continues from operation to operation where the redirection gateway client application transmits a connect to server command to the redirection gateway server application . This command includes the identity of the server A C with which a redirection session should be established.

The redirection gateway server application receives the connect to server command at operation of the routine . From operation the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application updates the new entry in the router table to reflect the network address port number and socket number of the server computer A C to which the connection will be established. This information is stored in the fields E F and G respectively of the router table . From operation the routine continues to operation and from operation the routine continues to operation .

At operation the redirection gateway client application launches the appropriate redirection client application A C for connecting to the desired server computer A C. For instance if the server A is to be connected to the redirection gateway client application will cause the RDP redirection client application A to be executed on the redirection client computer . If the server B is to be connected to the redirection client application will cause the VNC redirection client application B to be executed. The redirection gateway client application also instructs the redirection client application to establish a connection to the redirection gateway server application . This may include for instance providing the network address of the redirection server application to the redirection client application. The redirection client application connects to the redirection gateway at operation of the routine .

At operation of the routine the redirection gateway server application establishes a connection with the redirection client application executed by the redirection gateway client application . The routine then continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application updates the router table with the network address and socket number of the redirection client . In particular the network address and socket number of the redirection client are stored in the fields C and D respectively of the router table . From operation the routine continues to operation .

At operation the redirection gateway server application establishes a connection to the requested redirection server computer A C. Once a connection has been established to the redirection server computer A C the redirection gateway server application updates the contents of the field H of the router table to indicate that a redirection session has been established. The routine then continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application bridges its connection with the redirection server computer to its connection with the redirection client application . In this manner data received from the redirection client application is provided to the redirection server application and data received from the redirection server application is provided to the redirection client application . The redirection gateway is transparent to both the redirection server computer and the redirection client computer . Additional details regarding the process of bridging the connections is provided below with respect to . The redirection gateway continues to bridge the connections until a disconnect request is received from the redirection client application . At that time the connections are disconnected and the routines and continue to operations and respectively where they end.

Turning now to an illustrative routine will be described for processing a new connection request received at the redirection gateway server application . A new connection request may come from the redirection gateway client application when it first establishes a connection with the redirection gateway . A new connection request may also come from a redirection client application when it establishes its connection with the redirection gateway . The routine shown in illustrates the processing performed by the redirection gateway for processing these requests.

The routine begins at operation where the redirection gateway server application determines whether a new connection request has been received. If not the routine proceeds to operation where another such determination is made. If so the routine proceeds from operation to operation where a temporary variable utilized to maintain the value of a current entry in the router table is set equal to the first entry in the router table . As discussed in greater detail below this variable is utilized to step through each entry in the router table . From operation the routine continues to operation .

At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether the network address from which the connection request was transmitted is the same as the network address stored in the field A for the current entry in the router table . If not the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application determines whether there are additional entries in the router table to be processed. If there are additional entries the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the current entry variable is set to the value of the next entry in the router table . The routine then continues from operation to operation described above. If no additional entries are present the routine continues from operation to operation .

At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether an additional entry can be added to the router table . According to embodiments the maximum number of entries permitted in the table may be specified by a user. If no additional entries can be added to the table the routine continues from operation to operation where a message is returned indicating that the redirection gateway has reached the maximum number of permitted connections. If an additional entry can be added the routine continues from operation to operation where the redirection gateway server application adds a new entry to the router table and populates the fields A and B of the new entry with the network address and socket number respectively from which the new connection request was transmitted. From operations and the routine continues to operation where it ends.

If at operation the redirection gateway server application determines that the network address from which the connection request was transmitted is equal to the network address stored in the field A of the current entry in the router table the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether a network address is present in the field C. If so this means that a second connection request has been transmitted from the redirection client application . Accordingly in this case the routine branches to operation where the current connection is disconnected. If no network address is present in the field C for the current entry the routine continues from operation to operation .

At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether a network address is present in the field E of the current entry. If not no network address is present for the redirection server computer to be connected to. Accordingly in this case the routine continues to operation where the connection is disconnected. If a network address is present in the field E the routine proceeds from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application establishes a connection to the redirection server application identified in the fields E F and G of the current entry in the router table . The redirection gateway server application then inserts the network address and socket number from which the connection request was transmitted into the fields F and G of the current entry in the router table . This occurs at operation . A flag is also set in the field H of the current entry in the router table indicating that the session has been established.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the redirection gateway server application bridges its connection with the redirection server computer with its connection to the redirection client application . An illustrative process for bridging the two connections will be described below with respect to . From operations and the routine continues to operation where it ends.

Referring now to an illustrative routine will be described that shows the operations performed by the redirection gateway server application in one embodiment for bridging connections between redirection server computers A C and redirection client applications A C. The routine begins at operation where the redirection gateway server application determines whether data is available from any socket. If no data is available on any socket the routine returns to operation . If data is available on a socket the routine continues from operation to operation .

At operation a temporary variable utilized to maintain the value of a current entry in the router table is set equal to the first entry in the router table . The routine then continues from operation to operation where the redirection gateway server application determines whether data is available in the gateway client socket identified by the field B for the current entry. If so this indicates that data has been received from the redirection gateway client application . In this case the routine proceeds from operation to operation .

At operation a command header is received from the redirection gateway client application . From operation the routine continues to operation where the redirection gateway server application determines whether the command header is properly formatted. If not the routine branches from operation to operation where a protocol violation is reported. If the command header is properly formatted the routine continues from operation to operation where the actual data for the command is received. A properly formed command message will include a valid command to the redirection gateway server application .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the redirection gateway server application determines if the received command is valid. If not the routine branches from operation to operation described above. If the command is valid the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation a determination is made as to whether the current entry in the router table includes a server network address in the field E. If a server network address is already present this indicates that a second connection request has been received which is improper. Accordingly in this case the routine proceeds from operation to operation described above. If no server network address is present in the field E the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation a network address provided with the current command is utilized to update the contents of the field E in the current entry in the router table . From operation the routine continues to operation .

If at operation the redirection gateway server application determines that data is not present in the socket identified by the field B the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether data is present in the socket identified by the field F. If this is true this indicates that data has been received from the redirection client application for the connection identified by the current entry in the router table . In this case the routine branches from operation to operation where the data is received from the socket. The routine then continues to operation where the data is forwarded to the network address and port number for the connected server identified by the contents of the fields E and F. In this way data received from a redirection client application is bridged to the appropriate redirection server computer . From operation the routine continues to operation .

If at operation the redirection gateway server application determines that data is not present in the socket identified by the field D the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether data is present in the socket identified by the field G. If this is true this indicates that data has been received from the redirection server application for the connection identified by the current entry in the router table . In this case the routine branches from operation to operation where the data is received from the socket. The routine then continues to operation where the data is forwarded to the network address and port number for the connected redirection client application identified by the contents of the fields C and D. In this way data received from a redirection server computer is bridged to the appropriate redirection client application . From operation the routine continues to operation .

If at operation the redirection gateway server application determines that data is not present in the socket identified by the field G the routine continues from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application determines whether additional entries are present in the router table . If not the routine returns to operation described above. If additional entries are present in the router table the routine proceeds from operation to operation . At operation the redirection gateway server application sets the value of the current entry variable to the next entry in the router table . The routine then returns from operation to operation described above.

Turning now to an illustrative computer architecture for the various computing systems utilized in the embodiments described herein will be provided. It should be appreciated that although the embodiments described herein are discussed in the context of server computers virtually any type of computing device may be utilized. It should be appreciated that the architecture shown in may be utilized to embody the redirection server computers A C the redirection gateway and the redirection client computer .

The illustrative architecture shown in is for a computer that includes a baseboard or motherboard which is a printed circuit board to which a multitude of components or devices may be connected by way of a system bus or other electrical communication path. In one illustrative embodiment a CPU operates in conjunction with a chipset . The CPU is a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer. The computer may include a multitude of CPUs .

The chipset includes a north bridge and a south bridge . The north bridge provides an interface between the CPU and the remainder of the computer . The north bridge also provides an interface to a random access memory RAM used as the main memory in the computer and possibly to an on board graphics adapter . The north bridge may also include functionality for providing networking functionality through a gigabit Ethernet adapter . The gigabit Ethernet adapter is capable of connecting the computer to another computer via a network. Connections which may be made by the network adapter may include LAN or WAN connections. LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. The north bridge is connected to the south bridge .

The south bridge is responsible for controlling many of the input output functions of the computer . In particular the south bridge may provide one or more universal serial bus USB ports a sound adapter an Ethernet controller and one or more general purpose input output GPIO pins . The south bridge may also provide a bus for interfacing peripheral card devices such as a graphics adapter . In one embodiment the bus comprises a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus. The south bridge may also provide a system management bus for use in managing the various components of the computer . Additional details regarding the operation of the system management bus and its connected components are provided below.

The south bridge is also operative to provide one or more interfaces for connecting mass storage devices to the computer . For instance according to an embodiment the south bridge includes a serial advanced technology attachment SATA adapter for providing one or more serial ATA ports and an ATA 100 adapter for providing one or more ATA 100 ports . The serial ATA ports and the ATA 100 ports may be in turn connected to one or more mass storage devices storing an operating system and application programs such as the SATA disk drive . As known to those skilled in the art an operating system comprises a set of programs that control operations of a computer and allocation of resources. An application program is software that runs on top of the operating system software or other runtime environment and uses computer resources to perform application specific tasks desired by the user.

The mass storage devices connected to the south bridge and their associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

A low pin count LPC interface may also be provided by the south bridge for connecting a Super I O device . The Super I O device is responsible for providing a number of input output ports including a keyboard port a mouse port a serial interface a parallel port and other types of input output ports. The LPC interface may also connect a computer storage media such as a ROM or a flash memory such as a NVRAM for storing the firmware that includes program code containing the basic routines that help to start up the computer and to transfer information between elements within the computer .

As described briefly above the south bridge may include a system management bus . The system management bus may include a BMC . In general the BMC is a microcontroller that monitors operation of the computer system . In a more specific embodiment the BMC monitors health related aspects associated with the computer system such as but not limited to the temperature of one or more components of the computer system speed of rotational components e.g. spindle motor CPU Fan etc. within the system the voltage across or applied to one or more components within the system and the available or used capacity of memory devices within the system . To accomplish these monitoring functions the BMC is communicatively connected to one or more components by way of the management bus . In an embodiment these components include sensor devices for measuring various operating and performance related parameters within the computer system .

The management bus is used by the BMC to request and or receive various operating and performance related parameters from one or more components which are also communicatively connected to the management bus . For instance in one embodiment the management bus may communicatively connects the BMC to a CPU temperature sensor and a CPU fan not shown in thereby providing a means for the BMC to monitor and or control operation of these components. The BMC may also include sensors connected directly thereto. The serial ports and the Ethernet controller may be utilized to establish a connection with the BMC .

It should be appreciated that the computer may comprise other types of computing devices including hand held computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that embodiments described herein provide technologies for providing a redirection gateway. Moreover although the embodiments described herein have been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and by computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific structures acts or media described. Therefore the specific structural features acts and mediums are disclosed as exemplary embodiments implementing the claimed invention.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the invention. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the present invention without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

