---

title: System and method for coordinated sharing of media among wireless communication devices
abstract: A system and method for coordinating the sharing of media among wireless devices is disclosed. An originating wireless communication device sends to at least one target wireless communication device media on a media channel and at least one command on how to use the media on a command channel. These send operations can be performed synchronously or asynchronously. Each target wireless communication device, upon receiving both signals, executes the command on the media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386054&OS=09386054&RS=09386054
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09386054
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 167 427 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COORDINATED SHARING OF MEDIA AMONG WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Apr. 7 2009 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for the coordination of the sharing of a sequence of images or other media among users of wireless communication devices.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices have limited to significant data processing and computing capability and can accordingly send and receive data in addition to voice across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push to Talk PTT which can be push to talk over cellular PTT PoC capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

PTT systems allow for a voice communications connection to be established in a very short amount of time in a half duplex channel but the sending of non voice data through the channel can be problematic as the size of data is variable and large data can choke the channel and stall communications. Furthermore because the PTT system allows for one to many communications a stall in data transmission can hinder group communications.

There exists a wireless telecommunications service that provides for a way for a user to send an image video audio or other media to a second user. In a typical use such as via a protocol like multimedia messaging system MMS the media is sent to a wireless communications device and then the sender has no way of controlling how the media is used. In such a use normally the first user selects the media to send and the recipient of the media and determines when the media is sent by virtue of when that user manually chooses to send the message. When the media arrives at the wireless telecommunications device of the second user the first user no longer has control over the media. The media may sit on the second user s wireless communications indefinitely or the second user may choose to view the media in a variety of ways.

There also exists a way of sending media for intentional sequential view by a user of a wireless communication device such as a slide show of images. In such a system the data is streamed continuously to the user s device which decodes the stream and displays the image series transmitted by the first user. While the existent system allows for a plurality of images to be displayed it is not efficient for use in a resource constrained wireless interface.

It is desirous to provide a system and method that can address a situation where there are a group of people linked by wireless communication devices and a user wishing to share a set of media like a slide show with the group and control the actions of the media at the recipient devices.

In an embodiment a network communication entity controls the use of media across a wireless communications service. The network communications entity may send to at least one wireless communications device media across a data communications channel. The network communications may further send to each wireless communications device a command across a control communications channel comprising at least one instruction for the handling of the media by the wireless communication device. The network communication entity may be an originating wireless communication device.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term group communication can be a point to point or point to multipoint performed over a half duplex communication channel either in true half duplex or virtual half duplex mode. A communication channel can be a dedicated bandwidth channel or can be a virtual channel established within a communication path such as a packet switched channel. The terms originator and sender mean the wireless device that is sending or transmitting voice and or data intended to be received at one or more other wireless devices and the term target or receiver means the wireless device that receives transmitted voice and or data.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system for sharing group media among one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone can send a flag or otherwise notify at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and may perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network the at least one wireless communication device configured to selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group . At least one group communication computer device is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication computer device is further configured to selectively receive group directed media from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The system can further include a data store in communication with the group communication computer device s with the group communication computer device configured to send group directed media to the data store as is further described herein. The data store configured to receive the group designated media from the wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the group directed media was sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

The group directed media can be graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The group directed media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application POWER POINT MOV file and the like . The group directed media can also be an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. For example participants in a game can chat via the group communication about the ongoing game. Also the group directed media could be a form of half duplex communication among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of these media files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a data store or file management server or other computer device to store the group directed media such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications or can be send the media in a delayed fashion. The data store can be configured to automatically send the group directed media to each of the member wireless devices of the communication group upon establishing a communication link therewith. Upon receipt of the group directed media by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the group communication computer device can send to the originating wireless communication device which sent the group directed media an acknowledgement that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the group directed media.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed media to be sent e.g. send a target list and thus the group communication device may send or store the group directed media to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed media the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device . In one embodiment the communication group computer device can filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to received group directed media.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send group directed media during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the group directed media can be sent independently of the group communication session and through one or more other communication channels either half or full duplex.

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

In an embodiment the Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware UI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware UI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have setting on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file. In another embodiment a singular client interface may provide both PTT and Group Media access service.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary mobile communication device and in particular the user interface for the device. The device typically includes a display that may comprise an LCD or OLED display. In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The device may include a keypad that may be a standard phone keypad or in other embodiments a QWERTY keypad. The device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . The navigation keys may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft key.

In one embodiment Referring to in one embodiment the device is a mobile telephone with illuminated buttons on keypad navigation buttons or OK key . The button s may illuminate steady in a particular color or may flash on off or in any other manner as configured in the device or by the user. Additionally and optionally the device may provide an indication of recording on display . The mobile communications device may further provide an aural indication such as a periodic tone or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device.

In an embodiment the process begins with sending to at least one wireless communications device media across a data communications channel . The media may comprise at least one picture image audio sound video or slideshow presentation. As will be discussed in more detail below one or more commands may be sent to at least one wireless communications device across a control communications channel . In an embodiment the media transfer across the data communications channel may be performed at the same time as sending to each wireless communications device audio across a voice channel while sending the media . In an embodiment communications between mobile devices are sent through an application server or a packet data serving node PDSN . A PDSN acts as a connection point between cellular communications networks and internet protocol IP networks.

In an embodiment the media may be stored on a server and sending media includes directing the server to send the media to each wireless communications device. In an embodiment the media that the originator wishes to send may be located on the sender s wireless device. Here the sender transmits the media from the wireless device through a server and to the recipient. In another embodiment the media may be located remotely. In an embodiment the media may be located on that server and the sender transmits a request to the server to send the media to the recipient. In an embodiment the media may be located on a server separate from the server that processes the sender s communications with the recipient. In that embodiment the sender s message comprises an instruction for the communications server to retrieve the media from the media server. In another embodiment the mobile devices may utilize a point to point method of communicating and signals may be sent directly between phones.

In an embodiment the sender and each recipient s mobile device handshake to establish communications. In an embodiment this may be done either directly between mobile devices or through a server as an intermediary. In an embodiment the handshake may be the initial send of the media. If that handshake is accepted by the recipient the sender can be assured that the recipient has both the sent media and the application required to use the media.

In an embodiment the voice channel may not be established between the sender and each recipient. In this case all communications may be made via Data over Signaling Dos or some other similar signaling mechanism where data is sent over a signaling channel instead of a voice or bearer channel.

In an embodiment a half duplex channel may be used. A half duplex channel is one where communications may take place in only a single direction at a time and one must have the floor to communicate. In an embodiment the user who has the voice floor and the communications floor is the person who has the right to talk send media and perform any associated commands available with floor control.

In an embodiment the user who has the voice floor is not the person who has the communications floor and that user can only talk. Another user that has the communications floor has the right to send media and associated commands including those particularly for the coordination of media sharing.

In an embodiment the user who has the voice floor is not the person who has the communications floor and that user can only talk. Another user that has the communications floor has the right to send media. Yet another user may have the right to send associated commands including those particularly for the coordination of media sharing.

In an embodiment the user who has the right to send associated commands to control the media maybe an automated program on a server.

In an embodiment a full duplex channel may be used. In such an embodiment communications may take place in both directions a mobile device may send and receive simultaneously. In an embodiment under a full duplex system any party to the voice communications may send media and associated commands.

Again referring to in an embodiment the next operational step comprises sending to each wireless communications device a command across a control communications channel comprising at least one instruction for handling the media . In an embodiment where there exists a plurality of recipient wireless communications devices a command can comprise at least one instruction for each wireless communications device to handle the media at the same time. In an embodiment communications across the control channel may be prioritized by the recipient so that those commands are carried out as quickly as possible.

Where a significant amount of media data needs to be sent the sender may send it before he or she desires to present it and that media may be stored on each recipient s mobile device. Then when the sender wishes to present the media he need only send the commands on how to present it and with the data already in hand the recipients may follow those commands without delay.

In an embodiment the sender sends a plurality of images to at least one recipient. If the sender wishes for the recipient to see the first image then the second the third and the first again the sender may achieve this second display of the first image through a command only and does not need to resend the first image again. This is in contrast to prior systems where a sender would need to re send the first image in order for it to be displayed a second time.

In an embodiment wherein each wireless communications device has set an internal clock from a time server and an instruction for each wireless communications device to handle the media at the same time includes an instruction to handle the media when the internal clock reaches a specified time.

In an embodiment the instruction for handling the media comprises at least one from the set comprising a time to begin presenting the media a time to end presenting the media an instruction to replace the media with a second media an instruction to delete the media an instruction to store the media and an application to use to present the media. In an embodiment the time to begin presenting the media may be an absolute time e.g. September 5 at 22 00 hours GMT or a relative time e.g. 35 seconds from now .

In an embodiment the command further comprises an application to use to present the media. In an embodiment the recipient already has the application. In an embodiment the recipient may then download the application from a network. In an embodiment the command contains the application itself. In an embodiment the application to be used may be an application that may execute on a runtime environment such as QUALCOMM s BREW BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WINDOWS . BREW is a software platform that can download and run small programs for playing games sending messages sharing photos etc. BREW runs between the application and the wireless device s chip operating system so as to enable a programmer to develop applications without needing to code for system interface or understand wireless applications.

In an embodiment wherein the media comprises at least one from the set comprising video and audio wherein the instruction comprises at least one from the set comprising a instruction to play the media in slow motion an instruction to rewind the media an instruction to fast forward through the media an instruction to loop a subset of the media and an instruction to jump to a new part in the media. In an embodiment the sender may be sending a slideshow presentation to the recipients. In an embodiment each slide is represented as an image. Here commands may be issued to move forward or backward through the slides put an effect on the transition to another slide such as a dissolve or change to the next slide every specified period of time or move to the first or last slide in the presentation.

In an embodiment wherein at least one wireless communications device comprises a target wireless communications device the command further comprises at least one instruction for only each target wireless communications device to process at least one instruction for handling the media. For instance where a sender is communicating with three recipients he or she may issue a command that includes with it an instruction that only a specified two of the three are to process the command. In an embodiment that command is sent only to the intended recipients. In an embodiment the sender s mobile device has an interface that allows the sender to select or create a subgroup and the messages are discriminated by the sender s mobile device based on the target name of each recipient s mobile device.

In an embodiment the data communications channel and the control communications channel are logical channels that share a common underlying channel. In an embodiment the mobile devices use the evolution data optimized EV DO EVDO EV evolution data optimized standard for transmitting data. EVDO uses multiplexing techniques including code division multiple access CDMA and time division multiple access TDMA to multiplex a single channel. Where the media and control channels are multiplexed onto a single channel techniques such as CDMA and TDMA may be employed to affect this.

In an embodiment the procedure includes the optional operational step of sending audio across a voice channel. The method can also include the steps of sending to each wireless communications device a request to initiate a phone call receiving from at least one unanswering wireless communications device an indication that the call is declined sending to each unanswering wireless communications device a second media across the data communications channel and sending to each unanswering wireless communications device a second command across a control communications channel comprising an at least one instruction for handling the media.

In an embodiment the sender attempts to establish voice communications with the recipient across the voice channel and sends an image file across the media channel and an instruction to display the image across the command channel. If the recipient does not answer the call upon receiving notification of that the sender s wireless device sends an instruction to stop displaying the image. In an embodiment instead of sending an instruction to stop displaying the image the sender sends an instruction to display a second image. For instance the sender may send a photo of him smiling when he initiates the voice call a rich call initiation and a photo of him frowning when the call is not answered where the call is not answered the traffic or voice channel is never opened . Smiley and frowny face icons could also be used. Or the sender may send a photo of himself but not wish for that photo to remain on the device if no one answers since that may be indicative of the device being lost. In that case if the call is not answered the sender would send a command to the recipient to delete the image. Alternatively the sender may send a command to halt displaying the image and move it to a folder on the recipient s mobile device.

In an embodiment the sender may wish to send a photo of the restaurant he is currently at along with an invitation for the recipient to meet him there. If the recipient does not answer by the time the sender is finished at the restaurant the sender may push out a picture of the theater he is now at along with a command to delete the restaurant picture and display the theater picture.

A sender or originator begins by sending an Image tag T message to a server . In an embodiment each media comprises a separate message. In an embodiment the message may be sent across a data channel. In an embodiment a plurality of image media each sent in a separate message may comprise a slideshow presentation such as a POWERPOINT presentation. In an embodiment the server comprises a QCHAT server or a PSDN. The message represents a request for the server to send that message to both recipient or target and recipient or target . The server then sends the Image tag T message to both recipient and recipient and also sends an ACK Image tag T message to the sender indicating that the server received the sender s first message. In an embodiment each recipient stores both the image and the associated unique tag so that later received messages may reference the image via the unique tag.

The sender then sends a DISP tag T message indicating that the media associated with tag T is to be displayed on the wireless device of each recipient. In an embodiment all of these commands to display or otherwise instruct the usage of the media may be sent via a control channel. In an embodiment the sender may use a multicast channel to transmit media that is the media is broadcast to all users of a group and a unicast channel to transmit commands that is the command is sent to a single user of a group or a subset a multicast channel may also be used for the commands and a unicast channel may also be used for the media . When the server receives the message it forwards it to each target . The sender and each target then display the image associated with tag T on the screen of the wireless device. DISP tag T is a command that instructs each recipient device on how to process the media associated with unique tag T. Other commands may comprise an instruction to delete a corresponding media from the recipient wireless device or an instruction for only a specified subset of recipients to process a command. An advantage of the unique tag becomes apparent regarding the command to delete a corresponding media. In an embodiment a malicious sender may try to send commands to delete media that he or she did not send or lacks privileges to modify but cannot do this without the corresponding unique tag which he or she would have only if he or she originally sent the media and corresponding unique tag.

Where the sender wishes to send additional images to the targets it sends an Image tag T and Image tag T message to the server which forwards them to the recipients in a manner similar to how the Image tag T message was processed. The server also sends an ACK Image tag t message to the sender to indicate that the Image tag T message was received and an ACK Image tag t message to the sender to indicate that the Image tag T message was received.

When the sender receives the ACK Image tag t it may send a DISP tag T message to the server which will send it to the recipients . In the present embodiment the sender is unsure whether all recipients have received the Image tag T because corresponding ACK Image tag T messages are not sent from the recipients to the sender. In an embodiment the sender may still send a DISP tag T message to each recipient and a recipient that did not receive the Image tag T message will ignore the DISP tag T message. In another embodiment the recipient that did not receive the Image tag T message will notify the user of an error upon receiving the DISP tag T message for example by displaying an error message on the recipient s wireless device s screen. In an embodiment the sender receives notification of when or whether a message was received by each recipient . Each recipient that receives the DISP tag T message that is forwarded from the sender by the server displays the image associated with tag T on the wireless device s screen. In this embodiment the sender also displays the image on its screen. This is useful for instance where the series of images represent a slideshow presentation so that the sender knows where in the slideshow the recipients are. In the present embodiment some period of time then passes. The sender may then send a DISP tag T message to the server for forwarding to each recipient and the associated image is displayed in a manner similar to how the DISP tag T message was handled.

A sender or originator begins by sending a CALL Image tag T message to a server via the sender s wireless communications device. In an embodiment each media comprises a separate message. In an embodiment the message is sent across a data channel. In an embodiment the server comprises a QCHAT server or a PDSN. This message represents a request to send media comprising an image to a recipient or target . In an embodiment each media message is tagged with a unique tag by the sender so that the sender may later identify a particular media on the recipient s wireless device. The message includes tag T. 

The server then sends a corresponding ANNOUNCE Image tag T message to the target informing the target of the call attempt. The target then displays the image with tag T on the screen of the recipient s wireless communications device and the server sends an ACK CALL tag T message back to the sender acknowledging that the original CALL Image tag T message was received by the server . In an embodiment the sender s wireless device then displays the image associated with tag T on its screen.

In the present call flow diagram the server has a limited period for which it will wait for the recipient to accept the call and it times out waiting for the recipient to respond. In response to this the server sends a CALL FAIL Image tag T message to the sender signifying that the attempted call failed. In response to that the sender clears its screen of the image associated with tag T and sends an UNDISP tag T message to the server instructing the target to perform a similar function. The server passes this message on to the recipient which clears its screen of the image associated with tag T in response to receiving the message. In one embodiment the originator sends UNDISP tag T message based on

After the media is sent at step then a determination is made as to whether further media is being received from a wireless communication device as shown at decision . If no further media is being received at decision then a wait state is entered in the process at decision . Otherwise if further media is received at decision the process iterates to begin at step and receive the media.

The group communications server may include a network interface that may be wired and or wireless for communicating over the server side LAN . A processor may be connected to the network interface a user interface and memory . The processor may include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers and or digital signal processors that provide processing functions as well as other calculation and control functionality. The processor accesses memory for reading writing data and or software instructions for executing programmed functionality. The memory may be on board the processor e.g. within the same IC package and or the memory may be external memory to the processor and functionally coupled over a data bus.

A number of software modules and or data tables may reside in memory and be utilized by the processor for managing functionality including functionality describe above in . As illustrated here within memory the group communications server may further include or otherwise provide a group communication management and interface module . While the software module is illustrated in the example as being contained in memory it should be recognized that in certain implementations such procedures may be provided for or otherwise operatively arranged using other or additional mechanisms. For example all or part of software module may be provided in firmware. Additionally while in the software module is shown as a single distinct entity for ease of description it should be understood that it may include a plurality of modules that are not illustrated or otherwise be further partitioned into a differing groups of procedures.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for controlling the use of media across a wireless communications service. The method may include sending to at least one wireless communications device media across a data communications channel and sending to each wireless communications device a command across a control communications channel comprising at least one instruction for the handling of the media by the wireless communication device. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

