---

title: Information technology resource allocation and utilization tracking in a cloud-based system
abstract: An apparatus for allocating and tracking utilization of information technology resources of a distributed virtual infrastructure comprises at least one processing platform associated with the distributed virtual infrastructure. The processing platform comprises at least one processing device having a processor coupled to a memory. The processing platform is operative to allocate at least a designated one of the information technology resources to a user responsive to a corresponding request, to track utilization of the designated information technology resource allocated to the user, and to generate one or more notifications if the utilization of the designated information technology resource by the user falls below a specified threshold. The distributed virtual infrastructure may comprise an enterprise private cloud infrastructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037512&OS=09037512&RS=09037512
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09037512
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101228
---
The present application claims the priority of Chinese Patent Application No. 201010601491.7 filed Dec. 23 2010.

The present invention relates generally to the field of information processing and more particularly to techniques for managing information technology resources of a distributed virtual infrastructure.

Virtualization is being rapidly adopted across the information technology industry. Virtualization generally allows any number of virtual machines to run on a single physical machine with each virtual machine sharing the resources of that one physical machine. Different virtual machines can run different operating systems and multiple applications on the same physical computer. Virtualization may be implemented by inserting a layer of software directly on the computer hardware in order to provide a virtual machine monitor or hypervisor that allocates hardware resources of the physical computer dynamically and transparently. The hypervisor affords an ability for multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a single physical computer and share hardware resources with each other.

Commercially available virtualization software such as VMware vSphere may be used to build complex virtual infrastructure including private and public cloud computing and storage systems distributed across hundreds of interconnected physical computers and storage devices. Such arrangements advantageously avoid the need to assign servers storage devices or network bandwidth permanently to each application. Instead the available hardware resources are dynamically allocated when and where they are needed. High priority applications can therefore be allocated the necessary resources without the expense of dedicated hardware used only at peak times.

As virtual infrastructure becomes more complex and more widely distributed over larger numbers of physical machines it is becoming increasingly difficult to ensure that information technology resources are being utilized efficiently. For example in an enterprise private cloud environment conventional techniques for allocating resources among users and business units and tracking utilization of such resources are often non standardized and haphazard. In a typical scenario enterprise private cloud users have to make their resource requirements personally known to an IT administrator which can create a significant bottleneck in the allocation process. Also at least in part due to the inefficiency of the resource allocation process users tend to hold their allocated resources much longer than they actually need to which can lead to considerable wastage of resources. These and other difficulties in allocation of resources and tracking of resource utilization among users and business units can prevent the enterprise from charging its business units based on their actual resource utilization.

An illustrative embodiment of the present invention provides an information processing system in which information technology resources of a distributed virtual infrastructure of an enterprise private cloud are requested by users and allocated to those users in an automated and standardized manner that facilitates the tracking of actual utilization of the allocated resources by the requesting users as well as the reporting of such utilization not only to the requesting users but also to associated entities within the enterprise such as business unit managers and information technology administrators.

In one aspect an apparatus for allocating and tracking utilization of information technology resources of a distributed virtual infrastructure comprises at least one processing platform associated with the distributed virtual infrastructure. The processing platform comprises at least one processing device having a processor coupled to a memory. The processing platform is operative to allocate at least a designated one of the information technology resources to a user responsive to a corresponding request to track utilization of the designated information technology resource allocated to the user and to generate one or more notifications if the utilization of the designated information technology resource by the user falls below a specified threshold. The distributed virtual infrastructure may comprise an enterprise private cloud infrastructure.

The illustrative embodiments advantageously overcome one or more of the above noted drawbacks of conventional approaches that fail to provide adequate allocation and tracking of resources among users and business units within an enterprise private cloud environment. For example these embodiments provide an automated and standardized process for allocating information technology resources responsive to user requests and tracking actual utilization of the allocated resources on a user by user basis. Also these embodiments allow implementation of a particularly efficient pay for use charging system in an enterprise private cloud environment. This user centric approach makes users aware of the costs associated with their information technology resource allocations such that users will be less likely to request resources that they do not really need. Notifications of potential resource wastage by users are also provided to other related entities such as business unit managers and information technology administrators. As a result the potential for wastage of information technology resources is considerably reduced as are the costs associated with installing and maintaining information technology infrastructure.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description.

The present invention will be described herein with reference to exemplary information processing systems and associated servers computers storage devices and other processing devices. It is to be appreciated however that the invention is not restricted to use with the particular illustrative system and device configurations shown. Moreover the term information processing system as used herein is intended to be broadly construed so as to encompass for example private or public cloud computing or storage systems as well as other types of systems comprising distributed virtual infrastructure. However a given embodiment need not comprise distributed virtual infrastructure and may more generally comprise any arrangement of one or more processing devices.

The system further comprises at least one processing platform that implements a plurality of processing modules that collectively control access to and utilization of various information technology resources of an enterprise private cloud infrastructure . In one aspect of the invention these modules are collectively operative to allocate at least a designated one of the information technology resources to a system user responsive to a corresponding request to track utilization of the designated information technology resource allocated to the user and to generate one or more notifications if the utilization of the designated information technology resource by the user falls below a specified threshold. The presentation layer may be implemented by the same processing platform used to implement at least a portion of the processing modules or a different processing platform.

It should be noted that system elements and may be entirely separate from the enterprise private cloud infrastructure as is illustrated in the embodiment of . In such an embodiment the processing platform s implementing system elements and may be entirely independent of the underlying enterprise private cloud infrastructure but are configured to leverage certain functionality provided by that infrastructure in order to control access to resources and collect utilization data.

However although the system elements and are shown in the embodiment as being entirely separate from the enterprise private cloud infrastructure one or more of such elements may be implemented at least in part within the enterprise private cloud infrastructure in other embodiments.

The enterprise private cloud infrastructure which illustratively comprises an enterprise virtual layer and an enterprise physical layer is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a distributed virtual infrastructure. Such a distributed virtual infrastructure may comprise by way of example a hypervisor platform and associated services that allow physical systems network and data to be abstracted into their virtual form. An example of a commercially available hypervisor platform suitable for use in an embodiment of the invention is the VMware vSphere which may include vCenter . The distributed virtual infrastructure may further comprise one or more distributed processing platforms that include hardware products such as Celerra and CLARiiON both commercially available from EMC Corporation of Hopkinton Mass.

The processing modules in the present embodiment include a policy based notification module a resource rental module a charging module a resource delivery module a user resource utilization tracking module an authorization control module a billing module an enterprise systems integration module a user management module a resource utilization tracking module and a user resource management module . Although shown as being separate from the modules in the present embodiment the presentation layer may be implemented as a corresponding presentation interface module within the set of modules in other embodiments. Such a presentation module generally provides an interface between the user and functionalities of the modules such as resource allocation delivery utilization tracking utilization notification and utilization fee charging. The operation of the modules will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

It is to be appreciated that the particular arrangement of modules shown in is presented by way of illustrative example only and in other embodiments different arrangements of additional or alternative modules may be used. Moreover the functionalities associated with separate modules in the embodiment may be combined into a lesser number of modules each of which performs multiple functions. Thus at least a subset of the processing modules may be collectively implemented on a common processing platform or each such module may be implemented on a separate processing platform comprising one or more servers computers or other processing devices.

An example of such a processing platform is processing platform shown in . The processing platform in this embodiment comprises a portion of the system and includes a plurality of servers denoted . . . N which communicate with one another over a network . One or more of the processing modules of system may therefore each run on a server computer or other processing platform element which may be viewed as an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a processing device. As illustrated in such a device generally comprises at least one processor and an associated memory and implements one or more functional modules for controlling certain features of the information processing system . Again multiple modules may be implemented by a single processing device in a given embodiment.

The server in the processing platform comprises a processor coupled to a memory . The processor may comprise a microprocessor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other type of processing circuitry as well as portions or combinations of such circuitry elements. The memory may be viewed as an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a computer program product having executable computer program code embodied therein. Such a memory may comprise electronic memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other types of memory in any combination. The computer program code when executed by a processing device such as the server causes the device to perform functions associated with one or more of the modules . One skilled in the art would be readily able to implement such software given the teachings provided herein. Other examples of computer program products embodying aspects of the invention may include for example optical or magnetic disks.

Also included in the server is network interface circuitry which is used to interface the server with the network and other system components. Such circuitry may comprise conventional transceivers of a type well known in the art.

The other servers of the processing platform are assumed to be configured in a manner similar to that shown for server in the figure.

The processing platform shown in may comprise additional known components such as batch processing systems parallel processing systems physical machines virtual machines virtual switches storage volumes etc. Again the particular processing platform shown in the figure is presented by way of example only and system may include additional or alternative processing platforms as well as numerous distinct processing platforms in any combination.

In the system the term information technology resource is used to denote an allocable resource of the enterprise private cloud infrastructure . Such resources may comprise physical machines virtual machines virtual switches storage volumes or other system elements in any combination. For example a given information technology resource may comprise a virtual cluster containing a designated number of virtual machines and a designated number of network attached storage volumes.

It is to be appreciated that a given embodiment of the system may include multiple instances of the components and and other system elements although only single instances of such components and elements are shown in the system diagram for clarity and simplicity of illustration.

Also numerous other arrangements of servers computers storage devices or other components are possible in the information processing system . Such components can communicate with other elements of the information processing system over any type of network such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a satellite network a telephone or cable network or various portions or combinations of these and other types of networks.

Referring initially to operations associated with importing of enterprise organization hierarchy information into the system are shown. The operations involve enterprise organization information systems which are assumed to be external to the system as illustrated in . As shown at step the enterprise systems integration module obtains enterprise organization hierarchy information from one or more of the enterprise organization information systems . This information may comprise enterprise native information of the form shown generally at which illustratively includes for each of a plurality of employees of the enterprise an employee identifier ID employee name employee department employee manager and employee business unit BU . Other types of enterprise organization hierarchy information may be used in other embodiments. In step the enterprise systems integration module provides canonical enterprise organization hierarchy information to the user management module .

In step the resource rental module receives a user description of an information technology resource requirement from the employee user via the presentation layer . The employee enters such a description after logging in to his or her network technology NT account. The requirement in this embodiment comprises specifications for central processing unit CPU memory storage operating system OS and service level requirement SLR although other specifications or requirement description parameters could be used in other embodiments. The resource rental module in step interacts with the billing module to calculate the cost of the requested resource. In step the resource rental module generates from the user description of resource requirement a resource request form that incorporates in addition to the specifications of the requirement the employee ID and the cost of the resource requirement as obtained from the billing module . The resource request form is provided to the authorization control module also as part of step .

The authorization control module in step accesses the enterprise organization hierarchy information in the user management component in determining whether to approve or deny the resource request. This determination in step further involves interaction with department manager . The authorization control module then sends an approval or denial of the request to the resource rental module in step . Assuming that the request is approved the resource rental module in step updates a user record in the user resource management module and in step provides a notification to the IT administrator that the request has been approved and further that the resource should be subsequently delivered to the requesting user.

Referring now to operations associated with delivery of the requested resource are shown. It should be noted that the term delivery in this context does not refer to physical delivery of the resource but instead refers to making an allocated resource accessible to the requesting user. The operations involve the employee and IT administrator as well as enterprise private cloud infrastructure resource delivery module and user resource management module .

In step the resource delivery module receives an administrator description of an information technology resource requirement from the IT administrator via the presentation layer . Responsive to receipt of that description the resource delivery module in step interacts with an application programming interface API of the enterprise private cloud infrastructure to ensure that the appropriate resource is allocated. The resource delivery module in step updates a user record for the requesting employee in the user resource management module . In step the resource delivery module provides an indication via the presentation layer to the employee that the corresponding resource is available for use by that employee.

In step the resource utilization tracking module obtains resource utilization data from the enterprise private cloud infrastructure and in step provides that data to the user resource utilization tracking module . The user resource utilization tracking module in step receives resource occupancy information for the user from the user resource management module and in step receives enterprise organization hierarchy information from the user management module . In step the user resource utilization tracking module generates multiple resource utilization reports. These reports include a resource utilization report of the individual requesting employee a resource utilization report of the department that includes the employee and a resource utilization report of the company that includes the department and are presented via the presentation layer to the employee department manager and IT administrator respectively.

Referring now to operations associated with policy based notification within the system are shown. The operations involve the employee department manager and IT administrator as well as policy based notification module user resource utilization tracking module and user management module .

In step the policy based notification module receives from the IT administrator a notification policy relating to a resource allocated to the employee . In this example the notification policy set by the IT administrator specifies that notifications should be triggered when utilization of the allocated resource is such that an average CPU rate is less than 30 and storage occupancy is less than 40 . Numerous other types of thresholds may be used in any combination. In step the policy based notification module obtains resource utilization data for the allocated resource from the user resource utilization tracking module . The policy based notification module in step then obtains enterprise organization hierarchy information from the user management module and in step generate notifications in accordance with the notification policy for presentation via the presentation layer . These notifications in the present embodiment include a notification to the employee requesting that the employee release the underutilized resource a notification to the department manager indicating that continued allocation of the resource to employee may be wasteful and a notification to the IT administrator indicating that the allocated resource is a potential resource reclaim target. Although in this example the notification policy is set by the IT administrator in other embodiments the notification policy could be set by employee or department manager .

In step the billing module calculates a resource cost for the information technology resource requirement of the requesting user. The charging module receives the resource cost from the billing module and in step receives resource occupancy information for the user from the user resource management module . In step the charging module receives enterprise organization hierarchy information from the user management module. The charging module in step then generates from the received resource cost resource occupancy information and enterprise organization hierarchy information an information technology service bill for delivery to the department manager and an information technology service bill report for delivery to the finance officer .

It should be noted that the particular processing operations and other system functionality described in conjunction with the diagrams of are presented by way of illustrative example only and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. Alternative embodiments can use other types of processing operations for resource allocation utilization tracking notifications etc.

The illustrative embodiments provide numerous advantages over conventional techniques. For example these embodiments provide an automated and standardized process for allocating information technology resources responsive to user requests and tracking actual utilization of the allocated resources on a user by user basis. Also these embodiments allow implementation of a particularly efficient pay for use charging system in an enterprise private cloud environment. This user centric approach makes users aware of the costs associated with their resource allocations such that users will be less likely to request resources that they do not really need. Notifications of potential resource wastage by system users are also provided to other related entities such as business unit managers and information technology administrators. As a result the potential for wastage of information technology resources is considerably reduced as are the costs associated with installing and maintaining information technology infrastructure.

As indicated previously functionality such as that described in conjunction with the diagrams of can be implemented at least in part in the form of one or more software programs stored in memory and executed by a processor of a processing device such as a computer or server. A memory having such program code embodied therein is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a computer program product. 

It should again be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration only. Many variations may be made in the particular arrangements shown. For example although described in the context of particular system and device configurations the techniques are applicable to a wide variety of other types of information processing systems processing devices and distributed virtual infrastructure arrangements. In addition any simplifying assumptions made above in the course of describing the illustrative embodiments should also be viewed as exemplary rather than as requirements or limitations of the invention. Numerous other alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

