---

title: Gradient magnetometer atom interferometer
abstract: Measuring a magnetic gradient according to the present invention includes generating a beam of like atoms with magnetic sublevels, applying a first pulse of electro-magnetic radiation to the beam of atoms to create a coherent superposition of the magnetic sublevels in the atoms in which the superposition results in a plurality of beams following separate paths and in which at least two of the paths are arms of an interferometer, applying a second pulse of electromagnetic radiation to both beams of atoms a time T later with characteristics substantially similar to the first pulse and in which the product of the Rabi frequency and T now must equal π (versus π/2 in the first pulse), whereby the states of the atoms in the two arms of the interferometer are coherently interchanged and are redirected towards each other. The beams of atoms are then recombined by apply a third pulse of electromagnetic radiation a time T±Δt after the second pulse with characteristics substantially similar to the first pulse such that the paths form a closed loop. Then, a detecting pulse of light is used to detect the number of atoms in one magnetic sublevel versus another magnetic sublevel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08289018&OS=08289018&RS=08289018
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08289018
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 255 900 filed on Oct. 29 2009.

The field of atomic magnetometry has seen significant progress in the last several years. Magnetometers have been demonstrated based on quantum coherence in dilute gases Budker D. Gawlik W. Kimball D. F. Rochester S. M. Yashchuk V. V. Weis A. Rev. Mod. Phys. 2002 74 1153 1201 and references within high density gases Sautenkov V. A. Lukin M. D. Bednar C. J. Novikova I. Mikhailov E. Fleischhauer M. Velichansky V. Weach G. R. Scully M. O. Phys. Rev. A 2000 62 023810 1 4 Matsko A. B. Novikova I. Scully M. O. Welch G. R. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2001 87 133601 1 4 and in a spin exchange free environment Kominis I. K. Kornack T. W. Allred J. C. Romalis M. V. Nature 2003 422 596 Allred J. C. Lyman R. N. Kornack T. W. Romalis M. V. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2002 89 130801 1 4 . Additionally through a careful trade off of power size etc. against sensitivity very small yet sensitive magnetometers have been developed. Schwindt P. D. D. Hollberg L. Kitching J. Rev. Sci. Inst. 2005 76 126103 Balabas M. V. Budker D. Kitching J. Schwindt P. D. D. Stalnaker J. E. JOSA B 2006 23 1001 1006 . In particular sensitivities approaching 100 attoTesla Hzhave been demonstrated. However in magnetically noisy environments increased sensitivity does not necessarily improve the overall performance of the system since the magnetometer can be dominated by ambient noise rather than the signal. This is often the case in applications involving airborne anti submarine warfare ASW and mine detection. Thus there is a need for a magnetometer that provides increased sensitivity and still performs well in magnetically noisy environments.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Embodiments according to the present invention involve a system and a method for an atom interferometer gradient magnetometer that utilizes a coherent superposition of magnetic sublevels. In one embodiment the system can be created using only three levels. The results from that model are compared to results obtained from a full 24 level analysis.

The equations that describe the probability amplitude of finding a two level atom in the excited state ground state at a time t denoted by c t c t given a probability c t c t at time t are as follows 

where is the detuning of the laser frequency from the atomic resonance frequency and is the zero detuning Rabi frequency given by

In Eq. 3 is the vector transition dipole strength eis the laser s polarization vector and is the laser s electric field amplitude. What is important to note in Eq. 1a and Eq. 1b is the dependence of the probability amplitudes on the phase of the laser.

Consider two level atoms that travel through the gradient magnetometer atom interferometer depicted in which is subject to a gravitational field oriented down in the figure as well as a magnetic field which is also assumed to be oriented down in the figure for convenience. The effects of gravity are included to be able to make a connection with the previous treatments such as the work of Young Kasevich and Chu see e.g. Atom Interferometry Berman P. Ed. Academic Press New York 1997 Storey and Cohen Tannoudjii J. Phys. II. 1994 4 1999 2028 and Peters Chung and Chu Metrologia 2001 38 25 62 . The phase shift of the interference pattern at the end of the interferometer is given by two contributions where is a measure of the classical action along the path and is a measure of the phase difference imprinted on the atoms by the laser field at different locations.

The phase difference along the path of the interferometer is given by the integral of the classical along the two separate paths upper arm path A and lower arm path B 4 

where S i A B denotes the classical action along path i given by the integral of the Lagrangian L along the path i

The potential energy of a neutral particle moving in a gravitational and magnetic field is given by 6 

Beginning with the generic forms of the equations of motion for a particle starting at twith some initial velocity v moving in a uniform gravitational field and a gradient magnetic field 

where a is the combined acceleration of the particle due to gravity and the force due to the gradient magnetic field. Here 

At times t T and t 2T the 2 and pulses are applied. We will assume some velocity v arm A and v arm B after these pulses. Then we have 

Therefore the general expression for the difference in the total classical action from 0 to 2T is given by 

Now z z is the position of the atom in the A B arm at time T. This position can be calculated from Equation 8 .

This result is reasonable because the two paths are identical action segments which occur in a different time order.

The phase of the electric field at the time of the laser pulses plays a key role in the embodiments of a gradient magnetometer atom interferometer according to the present invention. In order to calculate the effects the effect of the pulse on the atom must first be calculated. Equations for the evolution of a two level atom in a laser field and conventional notation will be used. Four cases are considered. For simplicity 0 in Equations 1a and 1b 

Now the phase is traced as it changes through the different arms. Consider Path A first. The atom is initially in the ground state then is promoted to the excited state by the it 2 pulse at time t 0. The atom then sees the pulse putting it back in the ground state at time t T. Finally the atom sees the final 2 pulse putting it back in the excited state at time t 2T From Equations 22 and 25 the phase induced by the field along Path A is obtained 25 

Now consider Path B. The atom is initially in the ground state then is left in the ground state by the it 2 pulse t 0 The atom then sees the pulse promoting it into the excited state at time t T. Finally the atom sees the final 2 pulse leaving it in the excited state t 2T . From Equations 22 and 23 the phase shift induced along Path B is obtained 26 

Finally the phase shift is obtained by substituting kz t for the various phase shifts in Equation 28 as follows 

Equation 28 is a significant result and represents a goal of the experiments that underlie embodiments of a gradient magnetometer atom interferometer according to the present invention. As demonstrated in earlier works the phase shift in an atom interferometer in which the atoms are subject to a gravitational acceleration is proportional to g and also to T the time between pulses squared. However it has now been shown that if the superposition of states utilized in the interferometer are magnetically sensitive states the phase shift does not depend on the magnitude of the magnetic field but is dependent on the gradient of the magnetic field.

The previous section analyzed the dependence of the interferometer phase on the gradient of the magnetic field with the assumption that coherent superpositions of magnetically sensitive transitions can be created. In this section a simple three level theoretical model is used to demonstrate that this assumption is correct. At the end of the section the results from this simple model are connected with an experimentally realizable system.

where is the zero magnetic field transition frequency is the Zeeman shift of the levels due to the magnetic field is the atomic electric dipole moment to be distinguished from the magnetic dipole moment and E z t is the total field of the laser given by E z t t eexp i t kz c.c where eis the laser polarization vector and the field amplitude is allowed to vary slowly with respect to an optical period to account for the possibility of pulses e.g 2. and pulses . A well known treatment of the von Neuman equation of motion for the density operator is used

Removing the high frequency components by making the transformation tilde over 1 2 3 32a tilde over 32b tilde over exp 32c tilde over exp 32d we are left with the equations 

In this section an experimental embodiment according to the present invention is described. It should be noted that although the description below is based on laser cooled atoms beams of faster moving atoms can be used as well for the invention. Laser cooled atoms have been used in this embodiment to reduce the size of the device.

The experimental embodiment centers on a standard rubidium 85 magneto optical trap MOT although other atoms can be used for example sodium cesium potassium and the other alkali and alkaline earth elements. In general a MOT is a device that cools down non charged neutral atoms to temperatures near absolute zero and traps them at a certain place using spatially varying magnetic fields and circularly polarized light. To simplify the discussion only the major components of the MOT are presented. However it will be understood by those of skill in the art that a number of standard optical components that are not shown would be included in any implementation of a MOT and that this configuration is not unique. show top and side views respectively of an ultra high vacuum chamber P

As is familiar to those of skill in the art a repumper field not illustrated is required to illuminate the atoms. In this implementation a repumper field is delivered to the atoms via a second input port along the x fiber. Other implementations could inject the repumper field along any or all fibers or could frequency modulate the master and or slave to provide the repumper field.

It is important to have a good idea of what the magnetic field is in the absence of the trapping magnetic field at the location of the atoms inside the vacuum chamber. Because embodiments according to the present invention are intended for making measurements in Earth field shielding was not applied to the experimental chamber. Instead stray fields were nulled using three orthogonal sets of coils 20 turns per coil mounted on an aluminum frame in the shape of a cube having sides approximately 69 cm centered on the vacuum chamber. The method of polarization rotation as described for example in Labeyrie G. Miniatura C. Kaiser R. Phys. Rev. A 2001 64 033402 1 7 and Nash J. Narducci F. A. J. Mod. Opt. 2003 50 2667 2675 were used to measure the magnetic field. The amount of polarization rotation can be calculated from Equations 34a 34f by calculating the real part of tilde over and it is of course a function of the magnetic field. A time sequence similar to Nash J. Narducci F. A. J. Mod. Opt. 2003 50 2667 2675 was employed.

The MOT is formed by turning on the trapping field the repumper and the gradient coils at t 0 for 2995 ms at which time the repumper and the gradients coils are switched off in 125 ns and 5 ms respectively . The cooling beams are left on for an additional 5 ms for additional cooling although no particular effort was made to induce polarization gradient cooling and to hold the atoms while the gradient coils were decaying. At t 3000 ms a bias field Bis switched on switching time of about 3 ms while the cooling fields are switched off leaving the atoms in the dark. At t 3005 ms a scanning probe field whose center frequency is the cooling resonance of the atoms and whose radius is roughly the size of the MOT is turned on along with the repumper still oriented along the x axis of the MOT passed though the sample and scanned through the resonance in 2 ms.

The probe field is incident on the MOT at 45 with respect to the x y trapping beams and is linearly polarized 45 with respect to a calcite beam splitter located after the MOT. The probe beam enters the vacuum chamber via vacuum port and exits the chamber via vacuum port . The calcite splitter separates the beam of light into its horizontal and vertical components but into parallel but displaced beams. This arrangement makes it convenient to send the light onto a two sided detector and a common transimpedance amplifier for noise reduction. The bias field was switched on after the fall of the trapping beams rather than at the very beginning of the run because to compare the rotation signal for otherwise equal MOTs. Since the rotation signal is dependent on the density changing the bias field under which the MOT is formed might change the density. In this manner the density of the MOT remained the same from shot to shot.

A typical trace is displayed in . By varying the current in the bias coils we could reduce the amplitude of the rotation signal until it disappeared and then changed sign indicating the reversal of the total field B B B . A plot of the rotation amplitude versus applied current is shown in . By selecting the current at which the rotation signal crosses through zero we can establish the zero point in the magnetic field along the axis of the probe field. In principle this can be done along the other two axes to zero the field in all three directions. In this particular embodiment the field can be measured at 90 to the current arrangement in the x y plane but because of the presence of the z trapping fields the measurements cannot be repeated along that axis. Thus the measurement of the Larmor precession is used as an alternate technique to zero the field along the z direction.

The probe field described in the section above is delivered to the chamber via a two by two 50 50 fiber. Through the introduction of a second scanning laser and a few wave plates the relative population in either of the magnetic levels can be probed. For these measurements the probe field now denoted by Probe 1 is sent to the chamber along the vertically oriented polarization axis of the fiber so that the field emerging from the fiber is polarized vertically. The light is then sent through a quarter waveplate and then to the chamber. A second waveplate is placed after the chamber followed by a polarizing beam splitter. The quarter waveplate is oriented in the absence of the MOT so that the light is completely transmitted to a detector. Light from a second scanning laser Probe 2 also tuned to the cooling transition is incident on the second input port of the fiber. The polarization of this laser at the input face is horizontal 90 with respect to the Probe 1 field so that at the exit port of the chamber the light is reflected by the polarizing beam splitter rather than transmitted. The fields of both lasers were kept very weak so as not to influence the relative populations. We followed the timing sequence already described in Section 4.1. Both scanning lasers were turned on at the same time and utilized the same ramp signal for the scan. However the center frequency of each laser was adjusted so that the Probe 1 laser reached resonance and passed through it before the Probe 2 laser. A typical trace is displayed in . Since the absorption is proportional to the population in the ground state we can use this technique to measure the population in one ground state versus the other. The next step is to apply the techniques described in the section immediately above to coherently move population from one state to the other before finally demonstrating our interferometer.

The light out of the fiber is split three times at polarizing beam splitters and . The resultant three beams and are then each double passed through acousto optic modulators and respectively to provide a specific frequency shift. After splitting one of these beams in this case beam the resultant four beams are sent into their respective fibers labeled X Y Z and Z to denote the direction of the light beams at the vacuum chamber not illustrated in . 

As has been shown embodiments according to the invention utilize atom interferometry techniques for the measurement of gradient magnetic fields. It has been shown that embodiments of a gradient magnetometer atom interferometer according to the present invention are inherently sensitive to gradient magnetic fields and have the added non trivial advantage of being insensitive at least to the zeroorder that we have considered to magnetic fields themselves. Additionally it has been shown how coherent superpositions of magnetically sensitive transitions can be created. Additionally practical examples of the nulling of stray B fields in experimental embodiments without the aid of shields and the probing of the relative population in the higher and lower magnetic sublevels have been shown. In all cases it is understood that the above described arrangements are merely illustrative of but a few of the many possible specific embodiments which can represent applications of the principles and techniques of the present invention. Numerous and varied other arrangements can be readily devised in accordance with these principles and techniques by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

