---

title: Parameterized quality of service for multimedia in a coaxial network
abstract: Parameterized Quality of Service (QoS) may be provided. In response to receiving a registration request from a device, a determination of resource availability may be made. If resources are available to satisfy data flows to the device, a flow priority may be established and the device may be added to the priority queue configuration. If the device later requests establishment of a data flow, the data flow may be transmitted at the established flow priority.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08787165&OS=08787165&RS=08787165
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08787165
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
Parameterized quality of Service QoS is an electronically implemented process for creating guaranteed QoS flows over content distribution equipment in a coaxial network. In some situations content distribution requests can overwhelm a network s resources. For example multiple set top boxes STBs may each be receiving different high definition video flows over a household coaxial network. This may tax the available bandwidth for the video distribution network and may result in disrupted viewing experiences for one and or more of the users associated with the STBs. Conventional systems may use a priority based QoS scheme but this may result in each flow requesting the same highest priority status without offering a means to sort and or analyze the requirements and capabilities of each content flow.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for providing parameterized quality of service QoS . In response to receiving a registration request from a device a determination of resource availability may be made. If resources are available to satisfy data flows to the device a flow priority may be established and the device may be added to the priority queue configuration. If the device later requests establishment of a data flow the data flow may be transmitted at the established flow priority.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the invention s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for a method of providing parameterized quality of service QoS flows. Consistent with embodiments of the invention a content subscriber may use a Multimedia over Coax Alliance MoCA standards compliant device to provide parameterized QoS flows to their premises. MoCA is a nonprofit corporation organized to develop and promote specifications for the transport of digital content over coaxial cable. MoCA standards provide for home networking on existing coaxial cable in the 1 GHz microwave band using Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM modulation. The coaxial cable may be used for data connections to televisions set top boxes and other entertainment devices without the need for new connections. The technology underlying the MoCA standard provides the elements necessary to use this coaxial cable to distribute high quality multimedia content and high speed data with throughput exceeding 100 Mbit s.

In conventional MoCA based implementations prioritized QoS flows may be made available. Numerous other published standards and references may be used in defining QoS implementations such as the ITU T Recommendation X.641 IETF RFCs 2474 2205 and 2990 and the UPnP QoS Architecture standard each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Table 1 below lists common QoS priorities.

A subscriber may have a master set top box STB comprising a MoCA compliant chipset and a plurality of other data receivers e.g. secondary STBs computers portable media players etc . Each of these devices may comprise an OpenCable Application Platform OCAP standard operating system and or application. When using prioritized QoS the OCAP application may request a priority level for each traffic flow but no admission control or resource reservation may be available to ensure that the requested priority level is available. Consistent with embodiments of the invention OCAP APIs may be used to instead request parameterized QoS flows. The parameterized system may be based on an exchange of application requirements e.g. bandwidth requirements average and or peak data rates acceptable error rates and or delay constraints with a network controller such as the master STB that may be used to provide resource reservation and or admission control.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

CATV access network may comprise a public and or a private network such as a cable television distribution network e.g. a hybrid fiber coax network a cellular data network a metropolitan WiMAX network and or the Internet. Network controller may be operative to request receive decode encode and or remap program content received from the CATV service provider. Network controller may further be operative to provide routing and or admission functions for distribution network and or serve as a network gateway between distribution network and CATV access network . Network controller may also be operative to provide gateway and or bridge functions between distribution network and another data network such as the Internet not shown . Distribution network may comprise a data network located within customer premises such as a coaxial Ethernet and or wireless data network. Display devices A C may comprise for example televisions projectors and or other video output devices located within customer premises .

A management information base MIB may be used in a network management model and may comprise a collection of objects in a database that may be used for managing the devices in a communications network. Objects in MIB table may be defined using Abstract Syntax Notation One ASN.1 as defined in RFC 2578 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Communications between network controller and STB may utilize the simple network management protocol SNMP . SNMP is a communication protocol between a management station such as network controller and managed objects MIB objects such as routers gateways switches STB DVR and or computer . Network controller may use MIB agent to process SNMP based communications from other components. MIB manager API may provide a software interface for exchanging information between MIB agent and OCAP application .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether sufficient resources are available to satisfy the parameters requested in the device registration. For example OCAP application on network controller may refer to device list to determine what resources have previously been requested for other devices using distribution network . Network controller may further be operable to determine the maximum limits and or capacity of distribution network and or have such capacity provisioned. For example network controller may allow a maximum of four high definition content flows between a content server at headend and devices associated with distribution network . The determination of available resources may be made based on a priority associated with the registration request. For example a priority request of level 5 may require greater resources to be available than a priority request of level 2.

If at stage computing device determines that resources are available for the requested registration method may advance to stage where computing device may set a flow priority for the requested content flow. The priority may comprise a priority associated with the registration request and or a highest available priority as determined by network controller . If the registration is proceeding in accordance with an overspecification configuration from stage as described below the priority may be set at a lower level than that associated with the request.

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may add the device to a priority queue configuration. For example network controller may add the parameters and device identifiers e.g. MAC addresses to device list for reference when a content flow associated with those devices is established. Method may then end at stage .

If at stage the needed resources are determined not to be available at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether overspecification is allowed. For example network controller may be configured to register more devices than may be simultaneously supported by distribution network . The amount of overspecification may be configured differently for different premises based on a number of predicted or expected simultaneous content flows. For example a commercial environment such as a hotel may comprise a lower margin of overspecification with the expectation that more devices will be in use simultaneously while a home environment may allow a greater degree of overspecification due to lower expected simultaneous demand. If overspecification is allowed method may advance to stage as described above. Otherwise the registration may be refused and method may end at stage .

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may determine whether an entry in a priority queue configuration is associated with the flow request. For example network controller may look for an entry in device list associated with a source MAC address and or a destination MAC address.

If the entry is found in the priority queue configuration at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may establish the content flow according to the priority and or traffic specification parameters associated with the entry in the priority queue configuration. Method may then end at stage .

If no entry is found in the priority queue configuration at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether network resources are available to transmit the content flow. This may be accomplished as described above with respect to stage of method .

If at stage computing device determines that resources are available to establish the flow method may advance to stage where computing device may establish the content flow according to the priority associated with the request. For example network controller may establish a traffic flow from a content server at headend to STB at a requested QoS priority of 6. Further the traffic flow may be established according to other parameters associated with the request such as a nominal data rate. Method may then end at stage .

If at stage computing device determines that resources are not available for the request method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether resources are available to establish the flow at a lower QoS priority. For example network controller may determine that the flow may be established at a best effort priority QoS level .

If the resources are available for the lower priority flow method may advance to stage where computing device may establish the content flow according to the lower priority. Otherwise method may advance to stage where computing device may deny establishment of the content flow. After establishing the flow at stage or denying the establishment of the flow at stage method may end at stage .

Consistent with embodiments of the invention method and method may be used in conjunction or separately to provide parameterized quality of service. The registration of method may be performed on an ad hoc basis each time a device attempts to establish a content flow or devices may register once with the network controller and use the same priority each time a content flow is initiated. These registrations may be updated if the device s requested parameters change a new content type becomes available and or network capacity changes.

CATV system may comprise a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across access network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via headend and a client side customer via client side set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as display device A . CATV system may provide a variety of services across access network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data may be provided to display device A via set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to CATV system may likewise be provided by STB . As illustrated in STB may comprise a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism may receive input from server side processes via access network and from customers via input devices such as a remote control device and a keyboard . Remote control device and keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . STB may also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to display device A via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner may be provided for processing video and data to and from STB and headend .

STB may also include an operating system for directing the functions of STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications. For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on display device A operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of STB for example to output the news flash to display device A at the direction of client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client application and operating system that allow client application to communicate with operating system through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer may be included on the server side of CATV system for facilitating communication between server side application server and client side STB . A middleware layer of server side application server and middleware layer of client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example of data formatting data passed between the client side and the server side may be formatted according to any other suitable formatting language or standard.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . STB may pass digital and analog video and data signaling to the display device A via communication transport . According to an embodiment bidirectional communication may be accomplished between the STB and the television . For example high definition multimedia interface HDMI ports on the STB and television allow for bidirectional data communications between the devices. STB may receive video and data from the server side of CATV system via access network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. STB may transmit data from the client side of CATV system to the server side of CATV system via access network via one data uplink. The video data downlink may comprise an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of CATV system through access network to set top box for use by STB and for distribution to display device A . The in band signaling space may operate at a variety of frequencies. According to one embodiment the in band signaling space may operate at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between access network and set top box may comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between client side set top box and server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from server side application server through access network to client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Data passed between CATV system backend components such as headend and CATV system front end components such as STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over access network .

Referring still to headend of the CATV system may be positioned on the server side of CATV system and may include hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through access network to client side STB for presentation to customers via display device A . As described above a number of services may be provided by CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

Application server may comprise a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from client side set top box via access network . As described above with reference to set top box application server may comprise middleware layer for processing and preparing data from headend of CATV system for receipt and use by client side set top box . For example application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from one and or more of a plurality of third party services via network for transmitting to a customer through access network and set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by application server via network . When application server receives the downloaded weather report middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by set top box . Data obtained and managed by middleware layer of application server may be formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and may be passed to set top box through access network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by client application in concert with middleware layer as described above. A variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by application server via distributed computing environments such as network for provision to customers via access network and set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server may obtain customer profile data from services provider data services which may comprise an implementation of profile server for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

A plurality of provider data services may include a number of services operated by the services provider of CATV system that may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between application server and data services . Web services system may serve as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . When application server requires customer profile data from one or more of data services for preparation or update of a customer profile application server passes a data query to web services system . Web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. Web services system may serve as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and application server . That is application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. Web services system may be operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to application server for ultimate processing via middleware layer as described above.

Computing device may be implemented using a personal computer a network computer a mainframe or other similar microcomputer based workstation. The processor may comprise any computer operating environment such as hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable sender electronic devices minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The processor may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices. Furthermore the processor may comprise a mobile terminal such as a smart phone a cellular telephone a cellular telephone utilizing wireless application protocol WAP personal digital assistant PDA intelligent pager portable computer a hand held computer a conventional telephone a wireless fidelity Wi Fi access point or a facsimile machine. The aforementioned systems and devices are examples and the processor may comprise other systems or devices.

An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a parameterized quality of service QoS flow. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a registration request comprising a resource requirement from a device and determine whether at least one resource is available to fulfill the resource requirement. If so the processing unit may be further operative to establish a flow priority and add the device to a priority queue configuration. Being operative to establish the flow priority may comprise being operative to identify a video quality associated with the device and assign a quality of service priority level based on the identified video quality. The processing unit may be further operative to receive a request associated with a traffic flow from the device retrieve the established flow priority and transmit the traffic flow at the established flow priority.

Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a parameterized quality of service flow. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a request to establish a traffic flow from a source device to a destination device and determine whether a priority queue configuration comprises an entry associated with the source device and the destination device. If so the processing unit may be operative to retrieve a priority level associated with the entry and establish the traffic flow from the source device to the destination device. Otherwise the processing unit may be operative to determine whether a network connecting the source device and the destination device comprises sufficient resources to support the traffic flow and if so establish the traffic flow according to at least one parameter associated with the request to establish the traffic flow. Upon receipt of a flow request not associated with an entry in the priority queue configuration the processing unit may be further operative to create a new entry in the priority queue configuration comprising the source device the destination device the at least one parameter and the priority level associated with the request to establish the traffic flow.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a parameterized quality of service flow. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a request to establish a traffic flow between a source device and a destination device determine whether a traffic specification entry associated with the source device and the destination device exists in a device list table and if so establish the traffic flow between the source device and the destination device according to at least one attribute associated with the traffic specification entry. If no traffic specification entry exists the processing unit may be operative to determine a maximum video output quality associated with the destination device and create a new traffic specification entry associated with the source device and the destination device according to the maximum video output quality. Consistent with embodiments of the invention if no traffic specification entry exists the processing unit may alternately be operative to determine whether resources are available to establish the traffic flow between the source device and the destination device for a duration associated with the request at a quality of service priority associated with the request and if so reserve the resources associated with establishing the traffic flow between the source device and the destination device for the duration associated with the request at the quality of service priority associated with the request.

As described herein methods and systems are provided for providing parameterized quality of service flows. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

