---

title: Secure device feature unlock mechanism third party development
abstract: An apparatus and method for managing device features though a network connection for receiving a request to download a development application from an application developer via a computing device, verifying the status of said application developer before the development application is sent to the computing device, verifying the status of said computing device on which the application is to be run before the development application is sent to the computing device, and for facilitating access to retrieve said development application in order to allow the application developer access to the unlocked features stored on the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08499333&OS=08499333&RS=08499333
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08499333
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100910
---
This invention relates generally to managing device features and more specifically keeping device features locked during normal use while having the capability of securely unlocking device features.

As demand for a genuinely open source community where the next generation of networked application platforms may evolve the marketplace is being overwhelmed with consumer electronics ranging from smart phones hand held PDA s and even digital book readers. Along with burgeoning consumer electronics market application developers help to bridge the gap between the end consumer and their wants.

One conventional approach for protecting and controlling the use of software is done through licensing the use of software on a particular central processing unit residing on a computing device. After a code is generated at a central service the code is provided to a third party publisher who then provides the code to the end user who then provides it to the computing device thereby unlocking the appropriate software or features residing on the computing device. However this approach is undesirable for an application developer who may need more extensive access to a computing device than a simple licensing code would provide. The networked application platform on the other hand may require additional protections when allowing the application access to normally locked features of the computing device.

Another mechanism for managing and providing services to a third party application developer involves allowing the application developer to use a scaled down version of a registered application on a specific electronic device creating a specialized version of the registered application. After which a central facility can substitute the specific version of the registered application appropriate to the needs of the application developer and the specific electronic device. Once again however the third party application developer in need of unlocking key features and tools of a computing device may require the full version of the registered development application vis vis the electronic device.

Though other approaches have tried to protect the rights of application developer while protecting the digital content of the networked application platform the current state of technology has not adequately accounted for targeting the requirements of specific users with specific devices. Requirements such as access to developer documentations tools and SDK s.

It would be desirable to provide a secure efficient and scaleable resource for third party application developers to ensure that only registered developers and registered devices gain access to developmental applications.

A mechanism is provided for keeping device features locked or reduced while the device is being used as a normal customer computer electronic device but adds the capability of securely unlocking features for registered application developers and registered application development device only.

According to an embodiment of the invention there is provided a mechanism for managing device features though a network connection for receiving a request to download a development application from an application developer via a computing device wherein the development application being configured to unlock device features stored on the computing device verifying the status of said application developer before the development application is sent to the computing device verifying the status of said computing device on which the application is to be run before the development application is sent to the computing device and facilitating access to retrieve said development application in order to allow the application developer access to the unlocked features stored on the computing device.

This mechanism can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Opening normally locked down features on computer electronic devices can harm electronic devices and prompt unnecessary warranty claims. When a third party application developer signs up to become a registered application developer the developer can gain access to developer documentation tools and application development kits. Hence by having the application developer register a device as an application development device a development application Development App may become available for download to the registered application development device.

Downloading and running this Development App may unlock features on the device which are otherwise locked for normal users. Since downloading and installing the Development App should void the warranty of the application development device it becomes possible for the application developer to use the application development device for executing programs not normally tested or approved. This mechanism ensures only registered application developers and registered application development devices gain access to the unlocked features.

The system may revolve around a central database where the Application Store is housed. Application Store may facilitate access to software applications App App etc. Central database is configured to have a network interface that may communicate to computing device over network connection .

Network interface allows access to Application Store over network connection such that the computing device may be configured to create an application login account . Application store may be configured to output a list of public applications App App etc. over network connection to computing device .

Computing device is configured to have a customer interface that may receive customer login information from customer such that Application Store is accessible over network connection where software applications App App etc. may be downloaded to computing device over network connection .

To accommodate a download of software applications App App etc. computing device is configured to receive customer login information from customer at customer interface . After this the computing device logs into App Store over network connection via network interface . After receiving App Store Account login information network interface outputs software applications App App etc. over network connection such that the data base presents a list of public software applications consisting of software applications App App etc. to the computer device to be manipulated by customer .

The system includes a central database configured to house Application Store . Application Store facilitates access to public software applications App App etc. and to private software applications AppX AppY etc. Central database is configured to have a network interface that communicates to computing device over network connection .

Network interface allows access to Application Store over network connection such that the computing device is configured to create an application login account . Application store is configured to output a list of public software applications App App etc. and private software applications AppX AppY etc. over network connection to computing device . It may be appreciated that Central database and network interface that allows access to Application Store over network connection may reside in a server which can perform the functionality described below.

Computing device is configured to have a developer interface that receives developer login information from developer such that Application Store is accessible over network connection where public software applications App App etc. and private software applications AppX AppY etc. are downloaded to computing device over network connection .

Developer registers as an application developer through computer via application developer account login such that the developer is listed on registration server as a registered application developer. Upon recording the registration of developer registration server outputs SDK to computer . The SDK provides the PC environment in which the developer can create applications.

In response to a request for verification of developer registration the registration server exchanges registered application developer account information with the Application Store . This ensures that only registered application developers are allowed access to private software applications AppX AppY etc.

To accommodate a secure download of private software applications AppX AppY etc. computing device is configured to receive developer login information from developer at developer interface . Computing device logs into App Store over network connection via network interface . After receiving App Store Account login information central database exchanges developer login information with registration server . Registration server verifies that developer login information is associated with developer such that developer is a registered application developer where the developer has performed application developer account login .

After the verification process is complete registration server exchanges verification information with central database indicating developer is a registered application developer. At this point network interface securely outputs private software applications AppX AppY etc. as well as public software applications App App etc. over network connection such that central database presents a list of public and private software applications to computer device to be manipulated by developer .

The system may include a central database configured to house Application Store . Application Store may facilitate secure access to public software applications App App etc. private software applications AppX AppY etc. an all purpose developmental application DEV and other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. The development applications DEV DEV etc. change the behavior of the computing device such that various USB and debug ports are unlocked and accessible by registered developer . Central database is configured to have a network interface that communicates to computing device over network connection .

Network interface allows access to Application Store over network connection such that the computing device is configured to create an application login account . Application store is configured to output a list of public software applications App App etc. private software applications AppX AppY etc. an all purpose developmental application DEV and other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. over network connection to computing device . It may be appreciated that Central database and network interface that allows access to Application Store over network connection may reside in a server which can perform the functionality described below.

Computing device is configured to have a developer interface that receives developer login information from developer such that Application Store is accessible over network connection where public software applications App App etc. private software applications AppX AppY etc. an all purpose developmental application DEV and other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. are downloaded to computing device over network connection .

Developer registers as an application developer through computer via application developer account login . Upon recording the registration of developer registration server outputs SDK to computer . The SDK provides the PC environment in which the developer can create applications.

In response to a request for verification of developer registration the registration server exchanges registered application developer account information with the Application Store . This similarly ensures that only registered application developers are allowed access to private software applications AppX AppY etc.

Developer registers computing device through computer via device registration account login such that computing device is listed on registration server as a registered developmental computing device. The registration server records a list of registered developmental computing device with the matching registered application developer as an all purpose registration type REG type or other registration types Reg type Reg type etc. such that warranty claims is handled properly. The registration server also exchanges registered application developer account information with the Application Store in response to a request for verification of developer registration.

It should be appreciated that this system is an assurance that only registered application developers associated with the appropriate registered developmental computing device are allowed access to an all purpose developmental application DEV or other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. As an aside all purpose registration type REG type is associated with all purpose developmental application DEV while registration types Reg type Reg type etc. is associated with developmental applications DEV DEV etc.

To accommodate a secure download of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. computing device is configured to receive developer login information from developer at developer interface . Computing device logs into App Store over network connection via network interface . After receiving App Store Account login information central database exchanges developer login information and information about computing device with registration server . Registration server verifies that developer login information is associated with developer such that developer is a registered application developer. Registration server also verifies that computing device is associated with developer such that developer has performed computing device registration and performed application developer registration.

After the verification process is complete registration server exchanges verification information and registration type Reg type Reg type etc. information with central database indicating developer is a registered application developer and device is a registered developmental computing device. At this point network interface securely outputs developmental applications DEV DEV etc. that correlate to registration types Reg type Reg type etc. over network connection such that central database presents a list of developmental software applications to computer device to be manipulated by developer . Private software applications AppX AppY etc. as well as public software applications App App etc. are also securely outputted over network connection such that that data base presents a list of public and private software applications to computer device to be manipulated by developer .

Downloading and running an all purpose developmental application DEV or other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. unlocks features on computing device which are otherwise locked for normal users. By assuring that only registered application developers and registered developmental computing devices have access to the unlocked features an application developer uses the computing device for executing programs not previously tested or approved for the computing device. As an aside an all purpose developmental application DEV or other levels of developmental applications DEV DEV etc. unlocks different types of content features on computing device that are dependant upon the registered developmental computing device that is associated with the registered application developer.

Upon receiving a request for downloading public software applications App App etc. private software applications AppX AppY etc. and developmental applications DEV DEV etc. from computing device Central database exchanges computing device information and developer information with registration server via exchange unit . Verification unit is configured to verify that developer is registered as an registered application developer and computing device is registered as a registered developmental computing device. Verification exchange unit exchanges registration information about developer and computing device with Central database .

Depending on the verification information received from verification exchange unit application retrieval unit is configured to retrieve either public software applications App App etc. private software applications AppX AppY etc. or developmental applications DEV DEV etc. from Application Store . Transmit receive unit is configured to transmit the appropriate software application to be downloaded onto computing device .

If the answer to S is yes developer information is exchanged at S and sent to registration server at S. The registration server verifies at the registration status of the developer given the information provided by exchange step and outputs the registration status of developer back to exchange step . In the alternative S S and S may occur before S.

If the exchange step receives status verification that the developer is a registered application developer the control system provides both public software application and private software applications at S.

After S the control system determines whether the computing device is a registered developmental device at S. If so the control system provides the public software applications and private software applications to the developer at S.

If the computing device is a registered developmental computing device computing device information is exchanged at S and sent to registration server at S. The registration server verifies at the registration status of the computing device given the information provided by exchange step and outputs the registration status of computing device back to exchange step . In one alternative S S and S may occur before S.

If the exchange step receives status verification that the computing device is a registered developmental computing device the control system provides public software applications private software applications and DEV applications at S.

The Central database and the registration server may be resident on any computing hardware and run on a conventional operating system to carry out the described functionality by execution of computer instructions. Operating systems may include but are not limited to Windows Unix Linux and Macintosh. The computer system may further implement applications that facilitate calculation including but not limited to MATLAB. The artisan will readily recognize the various alternative programming languages and execution platforms that are and will become available and the present invention is not limited to any specific execution environment.

Although Central database and the registration server is preferably provided as software it may alternatively be hardware firmware or any combination of software hardware and firmware.

An article of manufacture wherein the program instructions that are executed to carry out the functionality described are stored on a computer readable storage medium. The medium may be of any type including but not limited to magnetic storage media e.g. floppy disks hard disks optical storage media e.g. CD DVD and others.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

