---

title: Method and composition for adhering to tooth structure
abstract: A dental adhesive composition has an adhesive component and an activator component. The adhesive composition has a volatile organic solvent component, one or more polymerizable (meth)acrylate compounds optionally containing fillers, and a polymerization photoinitiator. The adhesive component may also be a substantially homogeneous mixture of one or more polymerizable (meth)acrylate compounds and an effective amount of a photoinitiator, without a solvent. The activator component includes an aromatic sulfinate salt and an activator component solvent. A method for adhering a restorative to a dental surface includes preparing the surface for restoration; applying a mixture of an adhesive component and an activator component to the prepared cavity, thereby forming a coated cavity surface; and, applying a direct or indirect dental restorative to the coated cavity surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09427382&OS=09427382&RS=09427382
owner: DENTSPLY International Inc.
number: 09427382
owner_city: York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101008
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 231 928 with a filing date of Sep. 8 2008 now abandoned which is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 700 461 with a filing date of Jan. 21 2007 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 10 945 453 with a filing date of Sep. 20 2004 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 10 117 252 with a filing date of Apr. 5 2002 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 09 107 913 with a filing date of Jun. 30 1998 now abandoned.

The invention relates to adhesion of dental restoratives to teeth porcelain metals amalgams and other dental surfaces. The invention provides a method and composition for adhering to such dental surfaces. Specifically the inventive compositions include a meth acrylate adhesive component optionally containing one or more fillers and a sulfinate salt activator component. The method according to the invention includes preparing the dental surface applying the inventive material and then applying a dental restorative according to appropriate direct or indirect dental restoration procedures.

It is most desirable when filling a tooth cavity with a filling material such as a polymerizable dental restorative to ensure good adhesion between the tooth surrounding the cavity and the set polymerized filling material since there is thereby obtained a good seal between the set filling material and the tooth which prevents or at least markedly inhibits ingress of mouth fluids and bacteria into the filled cavity and thus prevents further decay or loss of the filling material. In order to achieve good adhesion between the filling material and the tooth tissues enamel or dentin it has been recommended to provide a primer or adhesive bonding layer intermediate to the filling material and surfaces of a prepared tooth. The filling material is normally an amalgam or non amalgam materials for direct or indirect restorations.

The priming compositions heretofore known in the art require the separate steps of applying a priming material to a prepared dental surface followed by the application of a dental adhesive. Such a method is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 487 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 554 030. In practice it has been found that such multi step procedures are laborious and time consuming. The dental clinician requires time effective procedures. Hence use of these procedures has been undesirable.

A need exists therefore for a dental composition which will simultaneously provide a priming and adhesive material intermediate to the prepared dental surface and the subsequently applied restorative material in both direct and indirect dental procedures. By direct it is meant a dental procedure where a tooth is prepared to receive a dental restorative composition which is formed and hardened in place. An indirect procedure is one wherein a dental construct such as an inlay only bridge crown or the like is first prepared and then set into the prepared and adhesive coated tooth.

It is another object of the invention to provide such a composition which will enhance adhesion of a dental restorative material to a dental surface.

It is still another object of the invention to provide a dental composition as above which is applied as a mixture or as a single composition.

It is an additional object of the invention to provide a method as above which does not require separate steps for applying a priming component and an adhesive component.

These and other object of the invention which will become apparent from the disclosure and claims to follow are carried out by the invention as hereinafter described and claimed.

A dental adhesive composition according to the invention comprises from about 5 to about 80 percent by weight of an adhesive or adhesive primer component optionally containing one or more fillers and from about 20 to about 95 percent by weight of an activator component the adhesive component comprising at least about 35 percent by weight of a volatile organic solvent component at least about 5 percent by weight of one or more polymerizable meth acrylate compounds and an effective amount of a polymerization photoinitiator the polymerizable meth acrylate compound being substantially soluble or homogeneously dispersed in said volatile organic solvent component.

The adhesive component can also comprise at least about 5 by weight of one or more meth acrylate compounds and an effective amount of a photoinitiator. The adhesive is a substantially homogeneous mixture of the above compounds but in the absence of said volatile organic solvent s .

The activator component comprising from about 0.1 to about 10 percent by weight of an aromatic sulfinate salt and from about 90 to about 99.9 percent by weight of an activator component solvent. The activator component may optionally contain additives that promote self cure and or light cure interactions between the adhesive compositions and the restoratives.

A method according to the invention for adhering a non amalgam dental restorative to a dental surface comprises the steps of 

A method according to the invention for adhering an amalgam dental restorative to a dental surface comprises the steps of 

The dental adhesive composition according to the invention is a mixture of an adhesive component and an activator component. It is to be understood that by adhesive it is meant either an adhesive or a primer adhesive component. As will be discussed below the adhesive component may include a solvent the primer adhesive or it may be a resin adhesive which is solvent free. The term adhesive will be understood to include all such adhesive systems.

One preferred composition has from about 5 to about 80 percent by weight of the adhesive component and from about 20 to about 95 percent by weight of the activator component. The composition may also contain fluoride.

The inventive materials my be provided as a single composition all components being packaged in one bottle for subsequent use or as a mixed system wherein the adhesive component is packaged separately from the activator component the two being mixed at the same time of use and before being used in the inventive method. Both such packaging applications are within the scope of the invention.

The adhesive component preferably includes at least about 35 percent by weight of a solvent such as water a volatile organic solvent or mixtures thereof and at least about 5 percent by weight of one or more polymerizable meth acrylate compounds the remaining components to form 100 percent by weight of the adhesive component being initiators or other cure components polymerizable monomers and oligomers polymerizable phosphates or other ethylenically unsaturated components other optional fillers fluoride release compounds stabilizers and the like. An example of a useful fluoride release compound is cetylamine hydrofluoride.

The adhesive component may optionally contain a filler including any filler that is useful in dental applications. For example an inorganic filler such as silanated inorganic silica may be employed. Another example is a sol gel inorganic organic nano scale composite. A prepolymerized organic filler may also be employed.

The adhesive component preferably includes an effective amount of a photopolymerization initiator. The polymerizable meth acrylate compounds should be substantially soluble or substantially homogeneously dispersed in the selected solvent or solvents and are polymerizable to form a polymeric material. Certain filler materials may no necessarily be soluble in the solvent s and as such are preferably substantially homogeneously dispersed in the adhesive component.

Examples of useful solvents for the adhesive component include ethanol methanol isopropanol dimethyl ketone ethylmethyl ketone water and the like as well as mixtures thereof. The adhesive component according to the present invention may also be a solvent free adhesive resin as discussed above.

Preferred polymerizable methacrylate compounds include for example those monomers having a solubility in water of less than about 5 and more preferably have a solubility in water of less than about 1 . Other useful polymerizable meth acrylate compounds include multifunctional polymerizable compounds having at least three meth acrylate moieties and a phosphate moiety. Still further preferred monomers include surface active monomers having acid functional groups and containing meth acrylates. Examples of useful acid functional groups include maleic acid phosphonic acid carboxylic acid sulfonic acid and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary monomers include diethylene glycol dimethacrylate triethylene glycol dimethacrylate tetraethylglycol dimethacrylate glycerol 1 2 dimethacrylate glycerol 1 3 dimethacrylate the reaction product of butanediol diglycidyl ester and methacrylic acid tetrahydrofurfural methacrylate methacryloxyethyl maleic ester methacryloxyethyl succinate urethane dimethacrylate Bis GMA Bis phenol A Glycydyl Methacrylate also known as 2 2 bis 4 2 hydroxy 3 methacyloyloxypropoxy phenyl propane trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate bisphenol A dimethacrylate and mixtures thereof. Monomers having a solubility in water higher than 5 are less preferred but still within the scope of the invention. Monomers having a solubility in water less than about 1 are more preferred. Highly water soluble monomers such as hydroxyethyl methacrylate and hydroxypropyl methacrylate tend to provide lower adhesion and are less suitable for use in compositions of the invention.

An example of a useful urethane dimethacrylate is 7 7 9 63 65 hexamethyl 4 13 60 69 tetra oxo 3 14 19 24 29 34 39 44 49 54 59 70 dodecanaoxa 5 12 61 68 tetra azadoheptacontane 1 72 diyldimethacrylate also known as urethane dimethacrylate resin.

A volatile solvent is removed after application of the adhesive and or primer adhesive to the dentine enamel metal or other dental surface. The monomer is preferably less volatile than the solvent.

Examples of useful photinitiators include those useful in dental applications including camphorquinone diaryliodium metal complex salts chromophore substituted halomethyl s triazines organo phosphine oxide preferably cleavage type phosphineoxide and halomethyl oxadiazoles and others conventional in the art such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 595 487 4 514 342 and 4 514 343 which are incorporated by reference for such disclosure as well as mixtures thereof. An effective amount of such an initiator is employed as will hereinafter be exemplified.

The activator component preferably comprises from about 0.1 to about 10 more preferably about 0.5 to about 5 more preferably still about 0.5 to about 3 percent by weight of a sulfinate salt and from about 90 to 99.9 more preferably from about 95 to about 99.5 even more preferably about 97 to about 99.5 percent by weight of an activator component solvent and optionally a reducing agent such as N N bis 2 hydroxyethyl p toluidine DHEPT . Examples of useful activator component solvents include acetone ethanol water dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO methylene chloride chloroform and the like as well as mixtures thereof.

The dental adhesive composition as described hereinabove is employed in inventive methods for restoring teeth. A method according to the invention for adhering an amalgam or non amalgam dental restorative to a dental surface includes a preparing the dental surface for restoration b optionally etching the surface with an acid c applying a mixture of an adhesive component and an activator component to the prepared surface thereby forming a coated dental surface and d applying an amalgam or non amalgam dental restorative to the coated dental surface. As an alternative in step c the adhesive and the activator components may be applied sequentially instead of being first mixed. It will also be appreciated that the order of the method steps according to the invention may be varied as appropriate. The inventive methods and compositions are useful with direct and indirect dental procedures. Further in step a it is understood that preparing the dental surface for restorations includes preparing the surface for both direct and indirect restorations without limitation.

The step of preparing the dental surface which may be a cavity or the like includes conventional techniques such as removing decayed or otherwise damaged portions by mechanical abrasive laser or other means. The surface can then be cleaned by washing or other techniques.

To enhance mechanical retention of the restorative material to the dental surfaces the tooth surface may optionally be etched whereas the indirect restoration surface may be sandblasted and or silanated and or acid etched where applicable according to conventional techniques. Any other conventional preparation technique is also within the scope of the invention. Etching is well known in the art and any etching technique is also within the scope of the invention. For example etching may be completed by applying an acid such as phosphoric acid to the prepared dental surface. The etching acid is normally removed by washing and or drying.

The mixture of an adhesive component and an activator component as used in the inventive method is selected from those inventive dental compositions as discussed hereinabove. It is applied to the surface to provide a coated dental surface.

If employing a non amalgam type restorative material such as PrismaTPH Spectrum composite or EnFOrce WF Composite Resin Luting Cement both available from Dentsply International Inc. L.D. Caulk Division the restorative may be applied to the coated dental surface. If the restorative is an amalgam material such as Dispersalloy admixed alloy or Megalloy spherical alloy both available from Dentsply International Inc. L.D. Caulk Division it is sometimes optionally useful to first apply a chemically curable adhesive to the coated dental surface followed by application of the amalgam restorative. Preferred chemically curable adhesives include for example Amalgam Bonding Base and Catalyst available from Dentsply International Inc. L.D. Caulk Division . Such chemically curable adhesives contain an oxidizing agent such as benzoyl peroxide and a reducing agent such as N N bis 2 hydroxyethyl p toluidine DHEPT . It will be appreciated that this step of applying a chemically curable adhesive when using an amalgam restorative is preferred but is optional.

In order to exemplify the inventive compositions a dental composition as above was prepared. The activator component was a substantially homogeneous mixture of 0.6 percent by weight of para toluene sodium sulfinate 79.5 percent by weight of dimethyl ketone and 19.9 percent by weight of ethanol to form 100 percent by weight of the activator component. The adhesive component was Prime Bond 2.1 abbreviated P B below from Dentsply International Inc. known to contain about 50 80 percent by weight of solvent about 5 15 percent by weight of multifunctional polymerizable compounds having at least three meth acrylate moieties and phosphate moiety and the balance being other meth acrylate monomers and oligomers one or more fluoride release compounds and other additives. The activator and adhesive components were used in approximately a 1 1 mixture by volume and this mixture is discussed below as the inventive composition .

This inventive composition was tested for shear bond strength SBS using a Single Plane Shear Test Assembly apparatus SPSTA as described by L. G. Watanabe et al. in Journal of Dental Research 76 Special Edition Abs. 1398 1977 and or other standard compressive shear bond strength test methods as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 645 429 which is hereby incorporated by reference for such disclosure and for example in Dental Materials vol. 3 185 1987 by Hammesfahr et al. The compositions tested included self curing SC and light curing LC or VLC for visible light cure materials. Further the inventive materials were tested with etching or non etching to dental surfaces as will be noted below and were also compared to various commercially available adhesive products. As will be shown in the following tables the inventive material shows comparable or improved results over the commercially available products. SD as used below is standard deviation and Del. Is dentin or enamel delamination. Cohesive failure as reported indicates bond fracture occurred within either tooth substrate dentin or enamel or restoratives and are reported as the number of failures F per the total number tested T F T . Both immediate 15 minute and 24 hour bond strength of different composite resin luting cements to human dentin using the inventive composition or other commercially available dual cure adhesive systems were evaluated by SPSTA test methods as described above. The results are summarized in TABLE 1.

As indicated by the SBS data the inventive composition two bottle dual cure dental adhesive system showed equivalent or improved bonding performance to competitors multi bottle dental adhesive system 3M s SBMP Bisco s All Bond and Kerr s OptiBond with the additional advantages of simplicity i.e. simple technique less total application time time cost saving fluoride release thin film thickness and the like.

Using the SPSTA test method bond strength of different restorative materials to human teeth dentin using the inventive composition was evaluated and the results are shown in TABLE II.

As can be seen from the SBS results in TABLE II and TABLE III below the inventive composition can be used to adhere different restorative materials to tooth structure in a variety of direct and indirect restoration applications with good bonding performance.

Using the SBS test method as described in Dental Materials Vol. 3 185 1987 and in the incorporated U.S. Pat. No. 5 645 429 24 hour enamel SBS of different restoratives used in direct and or indirect restorations using the inventive composition was evaluated. The results are summarized in TABLE III.

As indicated by the 24 hour enamel SBS data in TABLE III the inventive composition as a 2 bottle dual cure dental adhesive system showed very good bonding performance up to 31 MPa with 100 cohesive failure within human enamel to human enamel even in total self cure mode in relevant to direct and indirect dental applications.

Using the SBS test method as in Example III except that a porcelain substrate is used in place of human enamel 24 hour SBS of Enforce Resin Cement to an all ceramic substrate commercially available from DENTSPLY International Inc. using the inventive composition was tested. The obtained results are shown in TABLE IV indicated that the inventive composition can be used to adhere to porcelain substrate with high blood strength.

Using the same test method as in Example IV the inventive composition was evaluated for simulating a clinical Maryland Bridge application. The results are shown in TABLE V. These data show the inventive composition can also be used to strongly bond non precious metals rexillium III in human enamel in relevant clinical applications.

Using the SPSTA test method the inventive composition was evaluated for its adhesive amalgam bonding application in comparison with several commercially available adhesive systems. The obtained amalgam bond strength to dentin data is summarized in TABLE IV. As indicated by these data the inventive composition showed acceptable adhesive bonding performance.

It is apparent therefore that the dental compositions as described herein are effective in carrying out the objects of the invention. While the principles of the invention have been made clear by the illustrative embodiments discussed those skilled in the art will appreciate that modifications to composition components including the addition of other components to the composition for promoting chemical or photocure polymerization amounts grades process and method conditions and the like can be made and still fall within the scope of those principles and of the invention.

