---

title: Solid state circuit breaker
abstract: A solid state circuit breaker includes a first terminal; a second terminal; a first wide-band gap field effect transistor coupled to the first terminal; a second wide-band gap field effect transistor coupled to the second terminal, wherein the first wide-band gap field effect transistor and the second wide-band gap field effect transistor are common-source connected to one another; and a bi-directional snubber device coupled to the first wide-band gap field effect transistor and the second wide-band gap field effect transistor. Such a solid state circuit breaker may also include a gate drive circuit coupled to the first wide-band gap field effect transistor and the second wide-band gap field effect transistor, where the gate drive circuit may comprise a voltage regulation stage and a drive stage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08742628&OS=08742628&RS=08742628
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08742628
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 174 129 filed on Apr. 30 2009 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to solid state circuit breakers SSCBs and more particularly to highly fault tolerant high speed solid state circuit breakers.

In convention high power systems e.g. distributed and off grid power systems and hybrid electric ground vehicle power systems power electronic converters and power distribution equipment operate up to several hundred volts and up to hundreds of kilowatts. To prevent damage to converters or other system components during fault conditions such systems frequently require fault current interrupt speeds in tens to hundreds of microseconds. Moreover in many of these systems AC and DC power components operate between two voltage busses having independent sourcing capability and typically require bi directional fault isolation. These requirements also include symmetric ratings for bi directional voltage blocking in the off state and bi directional current conduction in the on state.

Conventional systems in high power applications frequently use mechanical contactors. Mechanical contactors however do not generally provide adequate actuation speeds and tend to suffer severe degradation during repeated fault isolation. In addition high conduction losses and negative temperature coefficients of bipolar solid state devices typically limit their practicality and scalability for high power applications.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a system for bi directional voltage blocking and current conducting comprising a first terminal a second terminal a first wide band gap field effect transistor coupled to the first terminal a second wide band gap field effect transistor coupled to the second terminal wherein the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor are common source connected to one another and a bi directional snubber device coupled to the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor.

In such a system at least one of the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor may comprise any of silicon carbide gallium nitride and diamond. Moreover at least one of the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor may comprise a vertical junction gate field effect transistor. In addition at least one of the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor may comprise a silicon carbide VJFET.

Such a system may further comprise a plurality of first wide band gap field effect transistors in parallel connection with one another and coupled to the first terminal and a plurality of second wide band gap field effect transistors in parallel connection with one another and coupled to the second terminal. Furthermore the plurality of first wide band gap field effect transistors may share a common source with the plurality of second wide band gap field effect transistors. In addition the bi directional snubber device may comprise a plurality of capacitors a plurality of resistors operatively coupled to the plurality of capacitors and a plurality of diodes operatively coupled to the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors. Additionally the plurality of capacitors the plurality of resistors and the plurality of diodes may have a component voltage rating at least as great as a transistor voltage rating of at least one of the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor.

In addition the bi directional snubber device may comprise a first snubber comprising a first capacitor a first resistor and a first diode oriented in a first direction wherein the first diode comprises a first anode and a first cathode wherein the first capacitor forms a serial connection with the first resistor and the first diode and wherein the first resistor forms a parallel connection with the first diode and a second snubber comprising a second capacitor a second resistor and a second diode oriented in a second direction wherein the second diode comprises a second anode and a second cathode wherein the first direction is distinct from the second direction wherein the second capacitor forms a serial connection with the second resistor and the second diode wherein the second resistor forms a parallel connection with the second diode and wherein at least one of i the second anode of the second diode shares a connection with the first cathode of the first diode and ii the second cathode of the second diode shares a connection with the first anode of the first diode. Furthermore the bi directional snubber device may comprise a plurality of capacitors a plurality of resistors operatively coupled to the plurality of capacitors and a plurality of semiconductor switches operatively coupled to the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors.

Moreover such a system may further comprise a gate drive circuit coupled to the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor the gate drive circuit comprising a voltage regulation stage and a drive stage wherein the drive stage comprises at least one of a single drive stage and a plurality of drive stages wherein the plurality of drive stages comprises a first drive stage and a second drive stage and wherein the first drive stage is coupled to the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second drive stage is coupled to the second wide band gap field effect transistor. Additionally the drive stage may further comprise at least one of an optically isolated drive stage or a magnetically coupled drive stage. Furthermore the drive stage may be powered by an isolated DC DC converter. The first drive stage and the second drive stage of the plurality of drive stages may also be individually controlled to perform any of delay turn on and delay turn off of signals to at least one of the first wide band gap field effect transistor and the second wide band gap field effect transistor. Additionally the voltage regulation stage may comprise at least one of a first linear voltage regulator and at least one of a second linear voltage regulator cascaded to the first linear voltage regulator a first resistive voltage division and a first zener diode voltage regulation and a second resistive voltage division and a second zener diode voltage regulation.

Another embodiment herein provides a scalable bi directional solid state circuit breaker comprising a pair of vertical junction gate field effect transistor VJFET devices connected serially and sharing a common source a bi directional snubber device coupled to the pair of VJFET devices and comprising a plurality of capacitors a plurality of resistors coupled to the plurality of capacitors and a plurality of diodes coupled to the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors and a gate drive circuit comprising a plurality of voltage regulators coupled to at least one drive stage wherein each drive stage is coupled to at least one VJFET in the pair of VJFET devices.

Such an apparatus may further comprise a plurality of pairs of VJFET devices sharing a common source wherein the plurality of pairs of VJFET devices are connected in parallel. In addition the voltage regulators may comprise at least one of a cascaded linear voltage regulator a resistive voltage division regulator and a zener diode voltage regulator. Moreover the bi directional snubber device may comprise a plurality of junction barrier Schottky diodes.

Another embodiment herein may provide a scalable bi directional solid state circuit breaker comprising a plurality of vertical junction gate field effect transistors VJFETs sharing a common source the pair of VJFETs comprising silicon carbide a bi directional snubber device coupled to the plurality of VJFETs and comprising a plurality of capacitors a plurality of resistors coupled to the plurality of capacitors and a plurality of diodes coupled to the plurality of capacitors and the plurality of resistors and a gate drive comprising a plurality of cascaded linear voltage regulators coupled to a plurality of optically isolated drive stages wherein each drive stage in the plurality of optically isolated drive stages is coupled to one or more VJFETs in the plurality of VJFETs.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a solid state circuit breaker e.g. silicon carbide SiC junction gate field effect transistor JFET having high voltage blocking ratings e.g. at or above 1200 V and having low drain to source resistances e.g. relative to other semiconductor switching devices at this voltage rating . Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

For example when parasitic line inductance is approximately ten micro henries bi directional snubber shown in may prevent overvoltage on a 1200 V rated SSCB module . Thus for example a fault may cause current to rise through inductor and is detected in SSCB module initially conducting 500 A. SSCB module may be subsequently actuated to a fully open state within 40 s with a transition time of 50 ns. This action results in a peak voltage for SSCB module of approximately 1000 V when 1.4 F snubber capacitors are used for an interrupted current of over 900 A. Low average current rated 1200 V SiC JBS diodes can be used as snubber diodes having high peak current ratings. In addition a wide range of snubber resistor values may be used depending on the frequency of SSCB module actuation.

For example one design of gate drive may include a DC DC converter including a low power regulated DC DC converter to provide an isolated 15 V output center tapped 30 V output bus . The 30 V output may subsequently feed two cascaded adjustable linear voltage regulators . In addition to cascaded adjustable linear voltage regulators voltage regulators may also include resistive voltage division and or a zener diode voltage regulation. Moreover outputs of linear voltage regulators establish the voltages used to bias the gate to source junctions of the VJFETs of SSCB module . Linear voltage regulator establishes the voltage level for an off state using the full 30 volts from DC DC converter as an input source. For example the off state voltage applied from source to gate negative may be 20 V. The linear voltage regulator provides the 2 V on state bias for the VJFETs using the difference in voltage between the 30 V supply and the output of voltage regulator as an input source. In addition the on state resistance of some VJFET device structures may be reduced by applying a small positive voltage bias to the gate to source junction. In so doing however the positive bias may not exceed the forward voltage of the parasitic gate to source diode which is typically between 2.5 V and 3 V.

In the embodiment shown in optocoupler drivers may not necessarily be rated for adequate margin over the full gate voltage range. Therefore drivers are used as an additional drive stage to each optocoupler drive stage to accommodate the full gate voltage range. The center tap of the DC DC converter output bus is used to power optocouplers . Two drive output stages e.g. optocoupler drivers and drivers may be used so the VJFETs in SSCB module may be controlled separately if necessary. In addition flexibility of variable timing of applied gate bias provides a method of compensating for mismatches in device transition time.

In one embodiment VJFETs may initially be held in the off state at a VGS of 20 V. Voltage on DC power supply may then be raised to a desired level. A gate pulse of 2 V may then be used to bias VJFETs to an on state for five milliseconds after which the gate bias may be returned to 20 V. It may be seen that in either direction of current flow the reverse conducting VJFET reaches off state before the forward conducting VJFET. This effect can damage the reverse conducting VJFET by exceeding its low reverse voltage breakdown limit before voltage is blocked by the forward conducting VJFET. To remedy the issue a delayed turn on signal may be provided to the device in position to forward conduct e.g. a voltage blocking device . A delayed turn off signal may also be provided to the device in position to reverse conduct. with reference to illustrates gate signals according to an embodiment herein. As shown in delays and are introduced to non blocking reverse conducting device non inverted gate signal and blocking forward conducting device to non inverted gate signal . By introducing the delay shown in embodiments described herein may prevent or mitigate damage caused by reverse conducting VJFET e.g. VJFET shown in attributable to exceeding the VJFET s low reverse voltage breakdown limit before voltage is blocked by the forward conducting VJFET e.g. VJFET as shown in .

In addition undesired forward conduction of a parasitic gate to drain diode not shown may cause continuous gate current. To avoid an undesirable turn on of the parasitic gate to drain diode of reverse conducting VJFETs e.g. either or shown in biasing conditions may be taken into consideration for simplified common source VJFET SSCB or other embodiments described herein. Reducing or eliminating the positive gate bias of VJFETs may increase the range of operating current but may also increase device on state resistance and power dissipation. VJFETs requiring low positive gate bias may be used or the current ratings of SSCB may be set to prevent forward conduction of the parasitic diode not shown .

The embodiments described herein can provide fault protection in a variety of systems which include but are not limited to AC systems DC systems AC to AC power conversion and or power distribution systems AC to DC power conversion and or power distribution systems DC to AC power conversion and or power distribution systems and DC to DC power conversion and or power distribution systems.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

