---

title: Memorable resource names
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for generating a human memorable resource name. Both a first part of the resource name and a second part of the resource name are generated, where both parts respectively comprise a memorable alphanumeric string (e.g., easily remembered). The first and second parts of the resource name are combined with an intervening separator symbol to generate the first resource name, comprising the first part, the symbol, and the second part. The first resource name is compared against a desired threshold to determine if it can be used as the name for the resource. If the first resource name does not meet the threshold a second resource name is generated for the resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266292&OS=08266292&RS=08266292
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08266292
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100621
---
Collaborative environments exist and are created to enable users to collaborate on and share a common resource. For example a document can be saved to a shared data store such as on an enterprise s distributed data storage and management system and those users having appropriate authorization can edit add to and or update the share resource. Further users often collaborate and share a resource such as web based document or set of documents online e.g. accessed using the Internet . As an example online information centers e.g. electronic encyclopedias such as wiki type pages comprise articles that practically anyone can access read and edit .

Further in order to access a particular article such as for Florence Massachusetts those who wish to read or write about the subject can visit that resource. Within online information center the article name Florence Massachusetts may be both globally unique e.g. only resource having that name and human memorable e.g. easy to remember for a user . That name for example may be all that is needed by a user to find and access that particular article among millions of articles present in the online information center.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Often collaboration may involve a resource that is created ad hoc and the resource may not have a common well defined name. For example a first user in an enterprise may wish to write meeting notes for today s 3 PM meeting with the marketing team. The first user can save the meeting notes as Marketing Meeting Notes or as George s Notes on Marketing Meeting or as Meeting Marketing Jun7 . In this example in order for a second user to find the meeting notes the first user must communicate the resource name to those interested e.g. second user . The first user could email the name to the second user but if collaborating over the phone and or the first user does not have the second user s email address it may be problematic. Further if the meeting comprised a significant number of people it can be time consuming. Instead the first user may wish to merely state go to Marketing Meeting Notes and start editing to the assembled meeting.

Accordingly among other things one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed generating names for resources that are globally unique such as to the collaboration environment e.g. within a desired time period . Further the resource names can have easily recognizable e.g. human memorable patterns that may be associated with the collaboration platform e.g. the string 978 555 1212 is easily recognizable as a phone number because of its pattern . Additionally the resource names can comprise a minimum number of mnemonic tokens e.g. for remembering such as a memorable date 1776 and can be easily communicated verbally and or textually.

In one embodiment for generating a human memorable resource name a first part of the resource name comprising a first memorable alphanumeric string e.g. easily remembered is generated and a second part of the resource name comprising a second memorable alphanumeric string is generated. The first and second parts of the resource name are combined with a separator symbol e.g. between the first and second part in order to generate the first resource name. A determination is made to see if the first resource name meets a desired threshold e.g. is particular to merely one resource in the collaboration environment . If it meets the threshold it is can be used for the resource otherwise a second resource name is generated e.g. until a name is generated that meets the desired threshold .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A random sequence of letters and or numbers randomly sequenced alphanumeric string is typically not memorable. Alphanumeric strings become memorable when associated with something memorable such as a name date time email address username and or a combination of memorable things for example. For example Joe Smith may create a file on a shared data store comprising meeting notes from a recent meeting on which those in the meeting can collaborate to edit. In this example a first part may comprise the string jsmith which is the username of the owner creator of the resource and the second string may comprise 7jun10 which is a date the meeting was held and or the resource was created.

In one embodiment a memorable alphanumeric string may comprise a text string such as a word from a dictionary. In this embodiment different cultures may influence a language choice for using a text string because foreign or non native words may not be as memorable as words from a local language. Typically dictionary words are easily remembered for example as long as they are short and simple. As an example simple words such as mountain yellow zebra scary and others may be used.

At in the exemplary method the first part and the second part are combined by introducing an intervening separator symbol in order to produce a first resource name. In one embodiment the is the ASCII character 0x2B plus sign can be used as a separator symbol or combining symbol . For example the first part jsmith can be combined with the second part 7jun10 to produce the first resource name jsmith 7jun10. It may be appreciated that has some desirable characteristics for use as a separator symbol. For example it can be easily entered by various devices e.g. phones etc it is a valid URL segment character e.g. as opposed to other characters such as and it is not confused in English punctuation or pronunciation e.g. as opposed to dash vs. slash etc. and it is visually appropriate e.g. as opposed to for example. In another embodiment a different separator symbol may be used such as the the ASCII character 0x26 ampersand . It will be appreciated that the separator symbol or combiner is not limited to any particular embodiment merely that it provides a way to combine the first and second parts to produce a first resource name. In another embodiment the intervening separator symbol may be omitted in this method and or in one or more techniques and or systems provided herein such as where the first part and or the second part are sufficiently unique for example. In one embodiment the separator symbol may technically be present but may merely comprise a space or the absence of a character such that merely the first part and the second part and any other parts as discussed below are visible discernable.

At a determination is made on whether the first resource name meets a desired threshold. In one embodiment the desired threshold can facilitate determining whether the first resource name is particular to merely the intended resource for which it was created. For example within a collaborative environment e.g. enterprise data store Internet intranet etc. a name for a resource can be particular to merely that resource e.g. unique within the collaborative environment . In this embodiment the desired threshold can comprise a determination factor that identifies whether the first resource name is not in a database of existing resource names. That is for example determining whether the first resource name is already being used to identify a different resource in the collaborative environment.

At if the first resource name does not meet the desired threshold a second resource name is generated for the resource. In one embodiment the second resource name can be generated in a same way as the first resource name. For example a first and second part of the second resource name can be generated where the first and second part are memorable alphanumeric strings and they can be combined using a separator symbol e.g. the sign . Further in one embodiment it can be determined whether the second resource name meets the desired threshold and if not another resource name can be generated until the desired threshold is met e.g. by looping back to . Additionally it will be appreciated that while two parts e.g. first part and second part are combined with an intervening separator symbol that one or more additional parts and linked with a corresponding number of separator symbols to generate a resource name e.g. a candidate resource name that is designated as the resource name if a desired threshold is met .

In another embodiment the first part and or the second part of the resource name can be created by having a processor randomly select an alphanumeric string from a dictionary stored in memory. As an example the first part may be selected from a first dictionary and the second part can be selected from the first dictionary or may be selected from a second dictionary. In one embodiment the dictionary may not be a complete English language e.g. or some other language dictionary there may be good reasons for eliminating entire classes of words e.g. words that are hard to spell objectionable words etc. . Further in this example sets of words may be blocked for particular word combinations such as those that may be objectionable or have unintended meanings.

In another embodiment an alphanumeric string can be generated from contextual information that is associated with the resource. Contextual information associated with the resource can comprise a time the resource was created or something associated with the resource occurred e.g. the meeting time for example. Further contextual information may comprise a location associated with the resource such as a city building room name number etc. which may help identify the resource e.g. location of creator where the resource is located why it was created etc. . Additionally the contextual information can comprise a system associated with the resource such as a server location domain database and or some component associated with the resource. The contextual information may also comprise a username or email address or person s name associated with the resource for example.

In when looking up user preferences at a database of users may be called to identify potential usernames or authorizations for resource naming. Further contextual information may be comprised in a database that identifies a time of resource creation location information system information and or other contextual information related to the resource. At the method used to generate a first and second part is determined.

For example in order to generate the first and second part of the first resource name a same method may be used for both or a different method may be used for the first than for the second. In one embodiment the first part of the first resource name can be generated by the user at such as by having the user enter a memorable alphanumeric string. Alternately the first part may be generated by randomly selecting a word from a dictionary such as stored in memory at . Alternately the first part may be generated e.g. automatically by selecting some contextual information for the resource at .

As an example an enterprise may have a custom dictionary that can be used to generate parts of the resource name. In this example the custom dictionary may comprise domain specific words that can be provided to generate memorable strings for users of the enterprise s collaborative environment. In this way in this example the resource names can comprise a first part that may be quickly recognized as being associated with the particular enterprise and within the enterprise can be quickly associated with a particular domain.

Further the second part of the first resource name can be generated by the user at by selecting from a dictionary at or using contextual information. As an example the second part may be generated using the custom dictionary as described above. Further as an example the user may generate the first part of the resource name by entering a user created alphanumeric string at and the second part can be generated by randomly selecting an alphanumeric string from a dictionary at or can be generated using contextual information associated with the resource at .

In one embodiment the first and second parts can be generated by the user at . In another embodiment the first and second parts can be generated by randomly selecting respective parts from a dictionary e.g. either a same or different dictionaries . In another embodiment the first and second parts may be generated from contextual information. In yet another embodiment a first part may be generated using one of the methods and the second part may be generated using a different method . Further the first and second parts are combined using a separator symbol e.g. .

As an illustrative example two words can be randomly selected out of a dictionary one for the first part and a different one for the second part. Alternately two dictionaries can be used a first dictionary for the first part and a second dictionary for the second part. For example the first dictionary might be a list of adjectives and the second dictionary might be a list of animals. In this example when combined they can form a noun phrase that may be both easy to remember and that is typically innocuous. e.g. purple zebra scary vole unwanted yak .

As another illustrative example contextual information can be used to generate one or both of the parts. For example the first part may be generated from the username of the resource creator and the second part can be selected randomly e.g. jmiller blue marym jacket sophie78 opinion . As another example a current date time may be used for the second part e.g. jmiller 9Feb10 marym 3PMTuesday9 sophie78 3PMFeb9 . In this embodiment a context may be more memorable and using a date can be useful for short lived resources. For example if a resource merely lasts for a month or less then a string of the form dayMonth without year or time may be sufficient.

As another example a user supplied prefix may allow the user to choose the first part as a persistent preference. For example John Miller might choose the alphanumeric string MSRJohn as his desired string. In this example whenever John creates a new resource random resource names can be generated where the first part is MSRJohn and the second part is a random selection from a dictionary or contextual e.g. MSRJohn blue MSRJohn 9Feb10 and MSRJohn yak .

As another example a geographic location can be used for one of the parts of the resource name to make the resource name more memorable. For example a current geographic location of the resource creator can be used to seed one of the strings and another method can be used to select the other part of the resource name e.g. 17 ParkPlace green 1CherryLane circular and BakerSt223B pensive . For enterprise settings e.g. particularly if resources are associated with meetings for example it may be useful to use building and or room information e.g. 1175Building36 yellow ConferenceB Atlantic and RedWC gentle .

In one embodiment the first part of the resource name and or the second part of the resource name can comprise an alphanumeric string that has a minimal number of mnemonic tokens. For example if the parts of the resource name can comprise a minimum number of mnemonic tokens they may be more human memorable. For example memorizing a number 6356 means a user may have to remember four tokens because it has four digits however memorizing a number 1776 may be easier because the user may remember it as a single token the year of US independence. Therefore in this embodiment for example the one or more dictionaries used can be comprised of alphanumeric strings having fewer tokens and or an automated generator of the parts of the resource name can merely generate parts having a desired number of tokens e.g. one .

At a check can be performed to determine if the resulting first resource name currently exists in a database of existing names . For example the combination of the first part the separator and second part are compared against resource names already existing in the database such as may be in use in a collaboration environment. If the resource name already exists YES at a new first part and or a new second part can be generated for the resource to generate a new or second resource name.

In one embodiment if the first resource name does not match an existing name in the database NO at the first resource name can be temporarily reserved such as for a small period of time e.g. 1 hour for the intended resource. For example in order to mitigate offering of the first resource name to a second user while a first user is deciding whether to accept the first resource name the first resource name can be reserved for a desired time out period. In this way in this example the first resource name is not permanently reserved merely for the time out period. Further in this embodiment if the user accepts the first resource name before the time out period the reservation of the first resource name can be cancelled.

Further in one embodiment the first resource name that can be presented to a user for preference selection e.g. on a coupled display screen . In this way for example the user can determine whether they wish to keep the first resource name YES at or prefer to find another name for the intended resource NO at . In this embodiment if the user does not select the first resource name as a desired selection a second resource name can be generated by generating a new first part and or a new second part. It will be appreciated that iterations can occur until an acceptable resource name is generated.

After the resource name e.g. either a first resource name or a second resource name not to be confused with a first part or a second part of a resource name is approved for use for the resource the resource name can be associated with the resource such as by indexing it to the resource in the database . It will be appreciated that any resource name e.g. 7resource name Nth resource name can be associated with the resource depending upon the number of iterations needed to arrive at an acceptable resource name. Further in one embodiment an expiration time period can be assigned to the first or second resource name. In this embodiment for example the resource may be available for merely a desired period of time e.g. for collaboration access and the expiration time period can provide for discontinuing access in the collaboration environment upon expiration.

It will also be appreciated that while a first part and a second part that are combined with an intervening separator symbol are described in generating the resource name that one or more additional parts that are joined with a corresponding number of additional separator symbols may be used to generate the resource name e.g. a candidate resource name that is designated as the resource name if a desired threshold is met . That is in one aspect the resource name may comprise more than two resource name parts e.g. along with more than one separator symbol . In one embodiment a first resource name may initially comprise two name parts with an intervening separator symbol and it may be determined not to meet the desired threshold and or is an existing resource name e.g. at of or of . In this embodiment for example instead of returning to generating a new first and second part for the first resource name a third part can be generated along with an intervening second separator symbol such as between the second and third part e.g. jsmith jun7 marketing to create a second resource name.

Further in this embodiment it can be determined whether the second resource name comprising the three parts and two separator symbols for example meets the desired threshold e.g. are not contained in a list of existing resource names . In one embodiment if the second resource name does not meet the desired threshold a new set of first second and third parts can be generated to be combined for a third resource name. Alternatively in another embodiment a fourth resource name part may be generated and combined with the three other parts using a third separator symbol to create the third resource name. As an example the resource name may comprise an arbitrary number of name parts for example along with an appropriate number of separator symbols until it meets the desired threshold. Additionally it will be appreciated that the name parts and separator symbols can be generated in accordance with the examples and embodiments described herein.

A system may be devised that facilitates collaboration on a resource in a shared environment for example such as an enterprise data store the Internet or some other collaborative environment where a human memorable resource name is utilized. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for generating a human memorable resource name. A memory component stores one or more threshold components that are used to determine if a desired threshold is met for a resource name .

A first resource name part generation component generates a first part of the resource name by generating a first memorable alphanumeric string e.g. word name date time location username etc. . A second resource name part generation component generates a second part of the resource name by generating a second memorable alphanumeric string.

A combining component is operably coupled with the first resource name part generation component and the second resource name part generation component to combine the first part and the second part with an intervening separator symbol to produce a first resource name . For example a username Ijames can be combined with the symbol and a randomly chosen word from a dictionary king to produce a first resource name Ijames king. 

A resource name determination component is operably coupled with the combining component and the memory component to determine if the first resource name meets a desired threshold. The resource name determination component compares the first resource name against the one or more threshold components to determine if a desired threshold is met. For example if the first resource name meets a desired threshold the first resource name is assigned as the resources name e.g. in a database such as stored in memory component as the first resource name up to this point is merely a candidate for the resource name. Otherwise in this embodiment a second resource name can be generated and checked to see if it meets a desired threshold. This can be iterated until a suitable resource name is determined for the resource.

A resource name assignment component can be configured to assign the first resource name e.g. or any subsequent resource names generated to its associated resource if it meets the desired threshold. Further if the first resource name is assigned to the resource the resource name assignment component can be configured to assign an expiration time period to the first resource name . Additionally the resource name assignment component can be configured to save the first resource name as a saved resource name in a database of existing resource names which can be comprised in the memory component .

A name part generation component is operably coupled to the first resource name part generation component and the second resource name part generation component and the name part generation component can be configured to automatically e.g. programmatically generate a memorable alphanumeric string for a part of the resource name. For example the name part generation component can automatically generate a string for the first and or the second part or the resource name.

One or more dictionaries having memorable alphanumeric strings can be used by the name part generation component for the automatic selection of memorable alphanumeric strings such as for the first and or second parts. A contextual string generation component can generate an alphanumeric string from contextual information e.g. which may be stored in the collaborative environment and or in memory component that is associated with the resource. The contextual string generation component can be used by the name part generation component to automatically generate memorable alphanumeric strings.

A user selection component is operably coupled with the resource name determination component and used to present the first resource name that meets the desired threshold to a user for preference selection. That is for example if the first resource name e.g. or any subsequent resource names generated meet the desired threshold e.g. do not already exist it can be presented to the user to allow the user to decide whether to use the first resource name as an actual name for the resource.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

