---

title: Setting up a multicast group communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a multicast communication session is setup at an access network within a wireless communications system, whereby the access network transmits an announce message announcing a current multicast communication session to a given group of access terminals within an initial cluster of sectors. The access network receives a registration request for the current multicast communication session from an access terminal, and selectively loads a stored cluster of sectors that supported a previous multicast communication session to the given group. The access network then turns on a multicast flow for the current multicast communication session within each sector of the stored cluster. In another embodiment, a multicast communication session is terminated whereby the access network stories a formation of the engaged cluster at or near the termination of the current multicast communication session, which can then be used during setup of a subsequent multicast communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594006&OS=08594006&RS=08594006
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08594006
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100127
---
The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to setting up a multicast group communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a multicast communication session is setup at an access network within a wireless communications system whereby the access network transmits an announce message announcing a current multicast communication session to a given group of access terminals within an initial cluster of sectors. The access network receives a registration request for the current multicast communication session from an access terminal and selectively loads a stored cluster of sectors that supported a previous multicast communication session to the given group. The access network then turns on a multicast flow for the current multicast communication session within each sector of the stored cluster. In another embodiment a multicast communication session is terminated whereby the access network stories a formation of the engaged cluster at or near the termination of the current multicast communication session which can then be used during setup of a subsequent multicast communication session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the Background section multicast messaging may be performed in a number of ways. In order to better understand embodiments of the present invention a conventional multicast messaging process will be described with respect to respectively. Then a multicast messaging process wherein a set of prospective sectors which are likely to include one or more multicast members is established before multicast session initiation will be described according to an embodiment of the present invention.

After receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN waits for a next available control channel capsule in and then transmits the announce message on a control channel e.g. packaged within a data over signaling DoS message . For example the control channel referred to herein is a downlink control channel which is assigned a timing than the broadcast channel BCH e.g. in EV DO for example the BCH and CCH are time multiplexed such that each channel occupies different timeslots of a downlink frequency of the base station . Generally less bandwidth e.g. fewer time slots is allocated to the control channel which is conventionally intended to include control messaging only while more bandwidth e.g. more timeslots is allocated to the broadcast channel BCH which is conventionally intended to include data.

Referring to each control channel cycle includes a total of 256 slots. Each control channel cycle includes a synchronous control channel capsule SC an asynchronous control channel capsule AC and a number of sub synchronous control channels SSCs . One SC is regularly or periodically transmitted at a given timeslot for each control channel cycle having a period of 256 slots whereas the AC is transmitted at random or at non synchronous timeslots within the control channel cycle. The SC is first transmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 256 Offset and then optionally retransmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 4 Offset where T denotes a system time and an Offset denotes a time value delayed from a fixed time which are included in the control channel header. Each SC may include a plurality of control channel MAC layer packets whereas each AC includes only one control channel MAC layer packet. As each MPT BS periodically transmits one or more control channel MAC layer packets interference e.g. inter cell interference may occur if each MPT BS transmits at the same time. Accordingly a different offset is applied to the SC for each MPT BS to avoid collisions. The MPT BS may transmit as many as three SSC capsules within one control channel period or 256 slot cycle. Each SSC typically transmits only one control channel MAC layer packet. Assuming an offset value of 2 the SSCs are transmitted at time slots and . Control channel capsules e.g. SCs ACs SSCs etc. are generally well known in the art within BCMCS systems and as such a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

Returning back to upon receiving the announce message at ATs A B and C assume that each of ATs A B and C determine to join the announced communication session and thereby each send BCMCSFlowRegistration messages to the RAN in order to register to the session with the RAN . Also in ATs A B and C send announce ACK messages to the RAN which are forwarded to the application server . In upon receiving the BCMCSFlowRegistration messages from ATs A B and C the RAN may wait for either a synchronous control channel capsule SC e.g. timeslot in a next control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 or alternatively a sub synchronous control channel capsule SSC e.g. one of timeslots of the control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 where the periodic BOM message is scheduled. For example one particular control channel capsule within each control channel cycle may be reserved for a particular BOM since other applications may be attempting to access the control channel and other messages may be scheduled a delay of multiple cycles may be incurred.

In after waiting for the next available SC or SSC the RAN transmits a broadcast overhead message BOM over the air interface to one or more multicast group members e.g. ATs A B C at least within sectors of the wireless communication system that include ATs that send the BCMCSFlowRegistration messages in . The BOM is a forward link control message defined by EV DO standards. The BOM is used to notify each multicast group member of the BCMCS flows which are currently being carried in a sector. The BOM also provides Interlace Multiplex Pair IM Pair information which is information regarding the forward link physical layer timeslots that should be decoded to receive the desired packet flows and information on the number of physical layer slots per broadcast physical layer packet and physical layer rate used to transmit the flow. In upon receiving a first announce ACK from ATs A B or C the application server begins forwarding media to the RAN for transmission to the target ATs. ATs A B and C receive and decode the BOM and the RAN waits a predetermined number of slots e.g. 8 to 16 slots after the transmission of the BOM from for the BOM to be decoded at the target ATs. After the BOM decoding delay the RAN waits for the BCH slot designated by the decoded BOM before sending the media to the target ATs that was received in . This creates another delay which may be further exacerbated based on the traffic on the broadcast channel BCH . After the delay of the RAN can begin transmitting media on the BCH to the registered group members . As described above with respect to conventional BCMCS multicast messaging typically requires each target AT or multicast group member to decode a broadcast overhead message BOM before media is transmitted over a broadcast channel BCH to the respective members of the multicast group. This creates delays both for the scheduling of the BOM and delays for the decoding of the BOM. Also the announce message of is transmitted in all possible sectors within the wireless communication system because the location of the call targets is not known by the application server . It will be appreciated however that multicast group members are not necessarily present within each sector. Thus a certain number of transmissions are wasted each time a multicast session is initiated.

Embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described wherein access terminals pre register with the RAN for future multicast sessions. Thereafter the access terminals periodically update their location and or their group membership information such that upon initiation of a given multicast session the RAN has at least some knowledge regarding where the multicast group members for the given multicast session are located. Thus the RAN may reduce the number of transmissions required to establish and or maintain the given multicast session.

In an example the GMN message may be included within a standard BCMCSFlowRegistration message. The BCMCSFlowRegistration message is well known in the art and is defined within 1x EV DO standards. Typically an AT sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message after receiving a BOM with a register set to prompt a BCMCSFlowRegistration message e.g. a register for dynamic broadcast RFDB field or register for paging RFP field equal to 1 . The BCMCSFlowRegistration message includes a list of BCMCSFlowIDs that an AT wishes to monitor. The BCMCSFlowIDs can be either dynamically assigned e.g. by a BCMCS Controller not shown or can be pre configured. If the BCMCSFlowIDs are dynamically assigned by the BCMCS Controller the AT can acquire the BCMCSFlowIDs via a BCMCS flow discovery process before sending the BCMCSFlowRegistration message. On the other hand in another embodiment of the present invention a certain block of BCMCSFlowIDs may be pre configured to be reserved irrespective of whether a multicast session is actually active. In this example each reserved BCMCSFlowID may be mapped to a respective IP Group ID i.e. a multicast IP address and port number pair . In an example the mapping of the reserved BCMCSFlowIDs is pre configured at each multicast group member and at the RAN and or BSN as discussed in greater detail within U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 827 entitled METHODS OF GENERATING MULTICAST FLOW IDENTIFIERS filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Accordingly in this example the BCMCSFlowIDs included within the GMN message of may correspond to one or more of the reserved BCMCSFlowIDs.

In an alternative example the GMN message may be included within a proprietary or non standard message such as for example in a StorageBLOBNotification message on the uplink. In this example the GMN message may include a list of BCMCSFlowIDs. Alternatively the GMN message may include a list of multicast IP addresses and port numbers for the multicast sessions being requested.

While and of are directed to AT power up in an alternative embodiment a supplemental GMN message may be sent to the RAN each time the given AT hands off e.g. to a new base station a new sub net etc. .

The RAN receives the GMN message and populates a group member list in . Each group member list entry includes i a list of ATs having sent GMN messages to the RAN AT List Field ii the associated multicast groups for each AT within the group member list Multicast Group Field e.g. stored as a BCMCS flow ID entry of a BCMCSFlowID is reported in stored as a multicast IP address and port number pair if a proprietary message is reported in etc. iii a last known location for each AT Location Field e.g. indicating a sector identification a base station identification etc. and iv a time stamp indicating a time at which the last known location of the AT was reported Time Stamp Field . An example of a group member list entry is provided below as Table 1 

Thus as shown in the example of Table 1 the given AT is labeled as AT and the given AT is a member of multicast groups T Flow U Flow and V Flow. The last known location of the given AT is within Sector Y of the wireless communication system and the last known location was reported at 7 06 PM Eastern Standard Time EST .

In another example the group member list entries may be grouped based on the multicast group field as provided below as Table 2 

Thus as shown in the example of Table 2 ATs through are registered for multicast group T Flow. The location field and time stamp field have not been included within Table 2 for convenience of illustration as these fields are specific to each of ATs through .

It will be appreciated that the group member list entries provided above have been given for example purposes only and other embodiments of the present invention may configure the group member list entry in any well known fashion. For example the Location Field may alternatively store a base station identifier and not a sector identifier. In another example the Location Field may store an identifier identifying a plurality of sectors such as a location area LA identifier where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN or a multicast area MA identifier where each MA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area identified by the RAN solely for a multicasting purpose.

In after updating the group member list based on the GMN message in the RAN determines whether to dynamically set a location update rule or protocol for the AT. The location update rule corresponds to the manner in which the AT schedules the transmission of RouteUpdate messages to the RAN . A RouteUpdate message updates Location Field and Time Stamp Field see above for a particular AT. Generally if the RAN wishes to keep closer track of the locations of multicast group members for a particular multicast group the RAN may set a relatively aggressive location update rule in . Otherwise if the RAN wishes to reduce reverse link traffic the RAN may set a relatively conservative location update rule in . In another alternative example the RAN may set no location update rule and may rely upon a default or manually entered location update rule at the given AT. Examples of location update rules are provided below.

In the given AT establishes the location update rule. For example if the RAN determines not to dynamically set the location update rule in a default location update rule may be established in . Alternatively if the RAN determines to dynamically set the location update rule in the dynamically set location update rule is activated in . In another alternative example the user of the given AT may manually select and enter a custom location update rule.

In an example the location update rule may be a distance based registration DBR protocol such that the given AT sends a RouteUpdate message after traversing a given distance e.g. based on which sector s the given AT has traversed etc. . The given distance may be based on which base stations the given AT has been handed off to which base stations the given AT has been monitoring while in an idle state etc. The changes in location update rule in the distance based registration protocol can be communicated to the AT via Generic Attribute Update Protocol GAUP in the EV DO system. In another example the location update rule may be to transmit a RouteUpdate message each time the given AT enters a new location area LA where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN .

In another example the location update rule may correspond to any of a number of possible of location update strategies. For example the location update rule may be timer based wherein the given AT maintains a timer with a predetermined or custom period and transmits a RouteUpdate message once for each timer period. In this example lower timer periods corresponds to a more aggressive location update rule for maintaining more up to date location entries for the group member list. However lower timer periods are also associated with higher levels of traffic on the reverse link.

After setting the location update rule in the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls etc. . In the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a RouteUpdate message based on the location update rule established in . If the location update rule requires a RouteUpdate message the RouteUpdate message is sent to the RAN in . In the RAN updates the group member list parameters based on the RouteUpdate message. For example the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT based on the RouteUpdate message. Otherwise if the location update rule indicates that a RouteUpdate message need not be sent the process advances to .

In the given AT determines whether to update its group membership information with a supplemental GMN message. For example if the given AT wishes to join a new multicast group the given AT may determine to send a supplemental GMN message i.e. including the BCMCSFlowID and or multicast IP address and port number pair for the new multicast group . In another example if the given AT wishes to cancel its membership to a multicast group that it has already registered for the given AT may determine to send a supplemental GMN message i.e. omitting the BCMCSFlowID and or multicast IP address and port number pair for the canceled multicast group . In an example each supplemental GMN message supersedes any previously send GMN message. If the given AT determines not to update its group membership information the process returns to and the given AT resumes normal operation. Otherwise if the given AT determines to update its group membership information the given AT sends the supplemental GMN message in .

In the RAN updates the group member list parameters based on the supplemental GMN message. If the supplemental GMN message requests different multicast groups than the previously sent GMN message the Multicast Group Field which maintains a list of multicast groups to which the given AT belongs is updated to add the multicast groups listed in the supplemental GMN message. Alternatively the Multicast Group Field is updated to remove the multicast groups listed in the supplemental GMN message if group removal is indicated within the GMN message. As will be appreciated this may necessitate removing previously listed multicast groups adding new multicast groups and or both adding and removing certain multicast groups from the associated multicast group field for the given AT. Further the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT sending the supplemental GMN message.

In another example if the supplemental GMN message includes no listed multicast groups the supplemental GMN message is interpreted as a request to drop or cancel the given AT from the group member list entirely. Accordingly if the supplemental GMN message includes no multicast groups the RAN removes each of the AT List Field the Multicast Group Field the Location Field and the Time Stamp Field for the given AT.

As will be appreciated in view of the above description of at any given time the group member list includes information regarding where multicast group members are potentially located before an active multicast session for the multicast group is actually initiated e.g. potentially because the group member list may not necessarily be perfectly accurate .

Further while not illustrated in explicitly the RAN may periodically update the group member list on its own initiative i.e. not in response to RouteUpdate messages and or GMN messages received from one or more ATs . For example if a Location Field for a particular AT becomes stale or exceeds an age threshold the RAN may interpret the stale Location Field as not being up to date and may remove the associated AT from the group member list entirely.

Referring to in the application server issues a request to initiate a multicast flow for a given multicast group. For purposes of example assume the multicast flow corresponds to T Flow as in the Multicast Group Field for each of ATs A through G as in Table 3 above . For example the multicast flow T Flow generated in of may be responsive to a given access terminal s request to speak to the given multicast group not shown . After the application server decides to accept the AT s request the server can generate a multicast flow announcement message to be sent to the group members via IP multicasting. The application server forwards the multicast flow to the BSN in and the BSN forwards the BCMCS flow over the BCA10 connection to the RAN which is responsible for transmitting the multicast messages of the BCMCS flow to the multicast group members via the air interface in one or more sectors in .

In of the RAN determines a set of target sectors for an initial cluster . As used herein a target sector is any sector within a wireless communication system having or potentially having at least one multicast group member. As used herein a cluster corresponds to a set of sectors e.g. one or more sectors upon which the BCH carries the BCMCS flow for a particular multicast group. As will be described below in greater detail the cluster includes both target sectors and supporting sectors for a particular multicast group or BCMCS flow.

Still referring to of the RAN determines the set of target sectors for the initial cluster based on the group member list maintained at the RAN e.g. see Table 3 . Accordingly in the example of Table 3 the initial set of target sectors may correspond to sectors T through T. More generally the initial set of target sectors may correspond to all sectors that satisfy a certain proximity metric with respect to any of sectors T through T e.g. because the last known location for an AT maintained at the RAN within a group member list entry is not necessarily correct but is likely to be proximate to the AT s actual current location if the time stamp field is relatively recent .

Next in of the RAN determines a set of supporting sectors for the initial cluster for the BCMCS flow T Flow. In an example the set of supporting sectors may be based on the set of target sectors determined in . For example the supporting sectors may correspond to any sector adjacent to one or more target sectors which itself is not a target sector. Alternatively a supporting sector may correspond to a sector in a given proximity e.g. a distance proximity a signal strength proximity etc. to a target sector without actually being adjacent to the target sector. While the RAN determines the target and supporting sectors for the initial cluster in at this point the initial cluster does not yet carry the BCH flow i.e. the multicast messages intended for group members belonging to T Flow on the downlink BCH.

In of the RAN determines an initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow. The initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow includes any sector within the wireless system which is neither a target sector as determined in of nor a supporting sector as determined in of . Non supporting sectors are not considered to be part of a cluster such that when reference is made to sectors belonging to a particular cluster the sectors being referred to the target and or supporting sectors of the cluster.

In of the RAN announces the multicast communication session for T Flow at least within the target sectors of the initial cluster. illustrates an example of the initial cluster as established between and and within which the announce message is transmitted in . As shown in the initial cluster includes target sectors T T and supporting sectors N N. For example within the initial cluster the announce message may packaged within a data over signaling DoS message and transmitted on a downlink control channel CCH to more quickly communicate the announce message to ATs within the initial cluster ATs . . . N whereas the announce message may be sent to ATs outside of the initial cluster with a slower standard paging technique to reduce loading on the CCH across the system .

After transmitting the announce message in at least within the initial cluster the RAN waits to receive one or more BCMCSFlowRegistration messages from ATs . . . N. In assume that a first of ATs . . . N sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN in order to register to the announced multicast session. After receiving a first BCMCSFlowRegistration message within the initial cluster in the RAN turns on the BCH flow in each of the target and supporting sectors for the initial cluster as determined in and respectively. Thus even though only one sector within the initial cluster is truly a target sector at this point because the BCMCSFlowRegistration message is received from only one of ATs . . . N in the RAN carries the BCH flow within any additional sectors of the initial cluster that would not otherwise qualify as target or supporting sector based on the registration s received in . Thus the set of sectors carrying the BCH flow is based on the RouteUpdate messages from the ATs and the corresponding data stored in the Group Member List at the RAN and not based on the BCMCSFlowRegistration messages. In other words the RAN need not wait for BCMCSFlowRegistration messages within sectors that are expected to include target ATs based on earlier RouteUpdate messages before turning on the multicast flow in those sectors and at the same time less than all of the sectors in the system need carry the multicast flow preemptively in this manner. As will be appreciated this may reduce setup times for ATs that are within the initial cluster but have not yet sent BCMCSFlowRegistration messages. However this also reduces the forward link capacity of the system because the BCH flow is potentially carried in sectors that do not require the BCH flow.

After turning on the BCH flow in the initial cluster the RAN executes target sector and supporting sector processes at the respective target and supporting sectors. Generally each target sector and each supporting sector carries the BCMCS flow on a downlink broadcast channel BCH and as such the RAN forwards the multicast message to base stations serving target sectors T through T and the supporting sectors. However in order to reduce excessive AT feedback supporting sectors transmit BOMs configured to prompt AT feedback e.g. with RFDB 1 or RFP 1 at each BOM period e.g. to prompt feedback from an AT wandering into a supporting sector whereas target sectors send BOMs to prompt AT feedback less frequently and more frequently send BOMs to suppress AT feedback e.g. with RFDB 0 or RFP 0 e.g. to discourage AT registration when the target sector already carries the BCMCS flow . Non supporting sectors do not carry the BCMCS flow T Flow and the RAN need not forward multicast messages for T Flow to non supporting sectors. A more detailed discussion of target sector behavior supporting sector behavior and non supporting sector behavior may be found U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 808 entitled METHODS OF SUPPORTING MULTICAST COMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH OVERLAPPING CLUSTERS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned by the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As will be appreciated if the initial cluster over estimated the number of sectors for which the BCH flow is required for supporting the multicast communication session a certain number of target sectors will eventually attempt to confirm whether one or more target ATs are being served within their respective sector e.g. by setting a BOM with RFDB 1 . When this happens these target sectors will discover that no target ATs are actually within their sector. Accordingly in it will be appreciated that the initial cluster is pruned or reduced based on AT feedback e.g. in this case the AT feedback is the lack of a BCMCSFlowRegistration message after a BOM with RFDB 1 .

In an example as noted above illustrates an example of the initial cluster as established between and of . Next in assume that BCMCSFlowRegistration messages are only received within target sector T from target AT A and or target AT B. Accordingly ATs C . . . G do not send BCMCSFlowRegistration messages in response to the announce message of despite having previously registered to the multicast group T Flow and having updated their location in the Group Member List maintained at the RAN . In this case the pruned cluster may be illustrated as in . In target sectors T T are transitioned to either supporting sectors or non supporting sectors and any supporting sectors of T T are transitioned to non supporting sectors. The only sectors among previous target sectors T T and their supporting sectors that remain as supporting sectors after the pruning step are sectors that are supporting sectors of T in this example.

Next in of the RAN updates the sector assignments of the pruned cluster e.g. adds new target supporting sectors removes target supporting sectors etc. during the multicast communication session. Again a more detailed description of the sector assignment updates is provided within the above referenced co pending application. Also while not explicitly shown in it will be appreciated that during the active multicast session the RAN continues to maintain update the group member list based on GMN messages and RouteUpdate messages received from multicast group members.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention as discussed above with respect to of the target sectors may be configured to include i sectors stored in the last known location field of each AT maintained in Table 3 i.e. sectors T through T ii and sectors satisfying a given proximity metric with respect to i . For example if the given proximity metric corresponds to adjacent sectors then the wireless communication system A would be modified such that the supporting sectors N through N would also be initial target sectors sectors adjacent to the new set of target sectors would be supporting sectors and so on. As another example if the given proximity metric corresponds to all sectors within the distance from the last registered sector for conducting distance based registration all sectors within the distance would also be target sectors. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the initial target sector group of the initial cluster A is not necessarily limited to the last known locations of ATs as maintained at the RAN for a given multicast group.

In another example the group member list may be used to provide scheduling instructions from the RAN to multicast group members that instruct the multicast group members with regard to how to respond to interactive multicast messages such as announce messages where an interactive multicast message is a multicast message that requests or requires feedback from one or more multicast group members. For example if a large number of multicast group members are expected to be present within a particular sector and an announce message for a multicast session is sent within the sector a relatively large number of multicast group members may attempt to access the reverse link channel at the same time to respond to the announce message and register for the multicast session. However with information present within the group member list the RAN can schedule a response sequence for the access terminals to respond to the announce message via an access control message ACM e.g. the ACM corresponds to any downlink control message from the RAN with instructions with regard to how individuals ATs are to contend for the reverse link access channel . For example the RAN may send the ACM along with the announce message with the ACM designating a prioritized response order that reserves feedback slots for a number of access terminals based on the group member list. For example the access terminal with the most recent update to its Location Field e.g. updated via a GMN message a RouteUpdate message etc. at the group member list maintained by the RAN may be granted the first response slot by the ACM the AT having the next most recent updated Location Field may be granted the second response slot by the ACM and so on. ACMs and scheduling of interactive multicast message feedback on the reverse link are discussed in more detail within U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 796 entitled METHODS OF RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned by the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As discussed above with respect to A and B an initial cluster is established based in part upon expected locations of ATs stored in a Group Member List at the RAN for a particular multicast group and each target sector and supporting sector of the entire initial cluster carries the BCH flow for the group session after a first BCMCSFlowRegistration message is received at the RAN from any target AT within any sector of the initial cluster. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art providing the BCH flow in each sector of the initial cluster may cause the forward capacity of the system to be reduced more than necessary if less than all sectors of the initial cluster are actually required to provide the BCH flow for the target ATs contained therein. Below embodiments of the invention are described by which the initial cluster is used to determine where the multicast session is to be announced e.g. in a DoS message on the CCH etc. but the BCH flow is only carried based on where actual registration requests from target ATs are received e.g. or based on a temporally relevant cluster formation at the end of a previous multicast session for the group e.g. .

With regard to as in assume that the group member list maintained by the RAN includes a plurality of ATs that have registered with both the RAN and the application server for multicast group T Flow and also assume that the multicast group T Flow is not currently engaged in a multicast communication session. Accordingly as an example the group member list for ATs having registered for T Flow may include the entries in Table 3 above .

Referring to blocks A through A correspond to blocks through of respectively. Accordingly the sectors of the initial cluster are determined A A A the RAN announces the multicast communication session at least within target sectors of the initial cluster A and at least one target AT within the initial cluster accepts the call announcement and requests registration to the announced multicast session A .

At this point in the RAN simply turned on the BCH flow within the initial cluster which essentially means that the initial cluster is activated such that each sector determined as a target sector or a supporting sector in and respectively is transitioned to either a target sector or a supporting sector. In however upon receiving registrations from individual target ATs within sectors of the initial cluster in A the RAN transitions only the sectors from which registrations have been received into target sectors in A and then populates the supporting sectors associated with these target sectors. The resultant group of target and supporting sectors may collectively be referred to as an engaged cluster . Accordingly the engaged cluster formed in A corresponds to a subset e.g. less than or equal to of the initial cluster where the multicast session was announced in A.

For example assume that the initial cluster is formed as illustrated in such that block A determines sectors T T as target sectors and block A determine sectors N N as supporting sectors. In this case the announcement of A announces the multicast session at least within sectors T T and N N. However in the initial cluster is not directly used with regard to where the BCH flow is carried. Accordingly assume that only one or more target AT s within sector T actually sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message within a threshold period of time in response to the announce message in A. In this case the engaged cluster may be formed as in such that sector T from the initial cluster transitions to a target sector T in the engaged cluster and sectors N N T T N and N from the initial sector transition to supporting sectors N N respectively in the engaged cluster. In this case because the engaged cluster essentially starts as a blank slate the additional supporting and target sectors from the initial cluster need not be actively transitioned to non supporting sectors in the engaged cluster because the engaged cluster sets sectors as a default to non supporting sectors until registration messages are received from target ATs during A.

Next upon forming the engaged cluster in A the RAN turns on the BCH flow for the multicast communication session within the engaged cluster and does not turn on the BCH flow within sectors that belong to the initial cluster but do not belong to the engaged cluster if any A. After turning on the BCH flow in the engaged cluster the RAN executes target sector and supporting sector processes at the respective target and supporting sectors of the engaged cluster. Generally each target sector and each supporting sector of the engaged cluster carries the BCMCS flow on a downlink broadcast channel BCH and as such the RAN forwards the multicast message to base stations serving target sector T and the supporting sectors N N.

As will be appreciated even if the initial cluster over estimated the number of sectors for which the BCH flow is required for supporting the multicast communication session the engaged cluster relies upon actual registration messages from target ATs for its formation and as such carrying the multicast flow in the engaged cluster does not unduly load the forward link of the RAN . Also the engaged cluster need not be pruned or reduced as in of although it will be appreciated that during the multicast session target ATs may move or drop the call such that the target and supporting sector configuration of the engaged cluster can still change after its formation.

Next in A of the RAN updates the sector assignments of the engaged cluster e.g. adds new target supporting sectors removes target supporting sectors etc. during the multicast communication session. Again a more detailed description of the sector assignment updates is provided within the above referenced co pending application. Also while not explicitly shown in it will be appreciated that during the active multicast session the RAN continues to maintain update the group member list based on GMN messages and RouteUpdate messages received from multicast group members.

In A the RAN determines whether to terminate the multicast session. For example the determination of A can be based on whether an END message was transmitted from the application server . If the RAN determines that the multicast session can continue in A the process returns to A. Otherwise if the RAN determines to end the multicast session in A the RAN stores a current sector formation of the cluster at the time when the multicast session is terminated A. As will be described next with respect to the stored cluster from A can be used to more accurately gauge how to establish an initial engaged cluster for a subsequent multicast session such that the initial engaged cluster need not automatically be as large as the initial cluster nor as small as the engaged cluster before a first registration is received i.e. in the case of before a first registration is received the engaged cluster in A includes zero 0 sectors .

Upon receiving a first registration to the multicast session in B the RAN determines whether the previous multicast session for the multicast group i.e. such as the session described above with respect to or a previous iteration of the process of occurred within a threshold period of time of the current multicast session B. In an example the RAN can measure the time differential to compare against the threshold period of time from the time the previous multicast session terminated e.g. in A of in B of etc. to the time at which the request is received from the application server in B or alternatively to the time at which the first registration message is received from one of ATs . . . N in B in another example. The time determination of B may be performed to ensure that the cluster at the end of the previous multicast session is likely to be similar to an engaged cluster for the current multicast session. For example if the previous multicast session dropped unexpectedly 60 seconds before the current multicast session the cluster for the previous session is very likely to still be relevant because the participating ATs will be in roughly the same locations. In another example if the previous multicast session occurred 5 weeks earlier than the current multicast session the cluster for the previous session is very unlikely to still be relevant because the participating ATs are not necessarily likely to be in the same approximate locations.

If the RAN determines that the previous multicast session is not within the threshold period of time of the current multicast session in B the process advances to block A of and the RAN builds the engaged cluster based solely upon actual registrations received from the target ATs for the current multicast session. Otherwise if the RAN determines that the previous multicast session is within the threshold period of time of the current multicast session in B the process advances to block B of . In B the RAN loads the stored cluster for the previous multicast session e.g. stored at A if the process of corresponds to the previous multicast session stored at B if a previous iteration of the process of corresponds to the previous multicast session etc. .

In B the loaded cluster from B is used to form an initial engaged cluster . As used herein the initial engaged cluster is a hybrid cluster between i the initial cluster based on the group member list maintained by the RAN and formed in B B and ii an engaged cluster that would be based on actual registrations from target ATs. In other words the initial engaged cluster is somewhat speculative because there is no guarantee that a cluster for a previous session will be equal to a cluster for the current session. However the initial engaged cluster can generally be considered less speculative than the initial cluster. The initial engaged cluster is likely to be at least somewhat larger than an engaged cluster would be and is also likely to be smaller than the initial cluster formed between B B. Also in B the RAN transitions the sector from which the registration s in B are received into target sectors and supporting sectors if necessary. For example if the registration s in B are only received from sectors that are target sectors in the initial engaged cluster then no further transition is necessary. Alternatively if the registration s in B are received from non target sector s in the initial engaged cluster then the initial engaged cluster is modified to transition the non target sector s into target sectors as well as populating the supporting sectors of the transitioned target sectors if necessary.

For example illustrates an example of the initial engaged cluster formed in B with target sector T and supporting sectors N through N. In this example assume that an additional registration message is received from a target AT C within non supporting sector X of . In this case the resultant cluster or modified initial engaged cluster may be illustrated as in with non supporting sector X transitioning into target sector T as well as non supporting sectors X through X transitioning into supporting sectors N and N of T. Below reference is made as if the initial engaged cluster generally corresponds to the loaded cluster from the previous session. However the initial engaged cluster can also be expanded upon as in with the addition of sectors T N and N or alternatively can be pruned as in if one or more of the target or supporting sectors from the loaded cluster of the previous session are removed while not shown explicitly in it will be readily apparent how this can be achieved from the above disclosure .

Next upon forming the initial engaged cluster in B the RAN turns on the BCH flow for the multicast communication session within the initial engaged cluster and does not turn on the BCH flow within sectors that belong to the initial cluster but do not belong to the initial engaged cluster B. After turning on the BCH flow in the initial engaged cluster the RAN executes target sector and supporting sector processes at the respective target and supporting sectors. Generally each target sector and each supporting sector of the engaged cluster carries the BCMCS flow on a downlink broadcast channel BCH and as such in the case of the RAN forwards the multicast message to base stations serving target sectors T T and the supporting sectors N N.

As will be appreciated even if the initial engaged cluster over estimated the number of sectors for which the BCH flow is required for supporting the multicast communication session the initial engaged cluster relies upon actual registration messages from target ATs in a previous multicast session for its formation. As such carrying the multicast flow in the initial engaged cluster combines some of the benefits of and such that the forward capacity of the RAN is not as likely to be wasted as in and the preemptive distribution of the BCH flow in sectors from which explicitly registration requests have not yet been received for a current session can provide multicast messages more quickly to target ATs in those sectors upon their eventual registration.

Next in B of the RAN updates the sector assignments of the initial engaged cluster e.g. adds new target supporting sectors removes target supporting sectors etc. during the multicast communication session. Again a more detailed description of the sector assignment updates is provided within the above referenced co pending application. Also while not explicitly shown in it will be appreciated that during the active multicast session the RAN continues to maintain update the group member list based on GMN messages and RouteUpdate messages received from multicast group members.

In B the RAN determines whether to terminate the multicast session. For example the determination of B can be based on whether an END message was transmitted from the application server . If the RAN determines that the multicast session can continue in B the process returns to B. Otherwise if the RAN determines to end the multicast session in B the RAN stores a current sector formation of the cluster at the time when the multicast session is terminated B. The storing step of B can overwrite the stored cluster from the previous multicast session such that the newly stored cluster in B represents the new previous session cluster for this particular multicast group. As will be appreciated the stored cluster in B can be used to generate the initial engaged cluster for a next multicast session and so on.

Also as noted above with respect to in another example in and or B the group member list may be used to provide scheduling instructions from the RAN to multicast group members that instruct the multicast group members with regard to how to respond to interactive multicast messages such the announce messages transmitted in A of or B of where an interactive multicast message is a multicast message that requests or requires feedback from one or more multicast group members. For example if a large number of multicast group members are expected to be present within a particular sector and an announce message for a multicast session is sent within the sector a relatively large number of multicast group members may attempt to access the reverse link channel at the same time to respond to the announce message and register for the multicast session. However with information present within the group member list the RAN can schedule a response sequence for the access terminals to respond to the announce message via an access control message ACM . For example the RAN may send the ACM along with the announce message with the ACM designating a prioritized response order that reserves feedback slots for a number of access terminals based on the group member list. For example the access terminal with the most recent update to its Location Field e.g. updated via a GMN message a RouteUpdate message etc. at the group member list maintained by the RAN may be granted the first response slot by the ACM the AT having the next most recent updated Location Field may be granted the second response slot by the ACM and so on. ACMs and scheduling of interactive multicast message feedback on the reverse link are discussed in more detail within U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 796 entitled METHODS OF RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned by the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

