---

title: Customer-controlled point-of-sale on a mobile device
abstract: A method to purchase a product by a user in a retail store. The method steps include obtaining a reference of the retail store using a mobile device of the user, accessing a product database for the retail store based on the reference of the retail store, obtaining, in the retail store, a product identifier of the product using the mobile device, retrieving product information from the product database based on the product identifier, and displaying the product information on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751316&OS=08751316&RS=08751316
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08751316
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100205
---
The most time consuming and least enjoyable aspect of shopping is the checkout process. Customers spend significant amounts of time waiting in line and having their orders processed by store employees. Further merchants spend significant amounts of money to install traditional Point Of Sale POS systems and employ individuals to operate them.

Self Checkout POS systems e.g. self checkout terminals are widely used by major retailers in the United States. Typically one employee can monitor 4 8 self checkout terminals. However the self checkout POS systems are similar to traditional POS systems as they are full sized stationary POS terminals that require installation and management by the retailer.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method to purchase a product by a user in a retail store. The method steps include obtaining a reference of the retail store using a mobile device of the user accessing a product database for the retail store based on the reference of the retail store obtaining in the retail store a product identifier of the product using the mobile device retrieving product information from the product database based on the product identifier and displaying the product information on the mobile device 

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for purchasing a product by a user in a retail store. The system includes a product database accessible based on a reference of the retail store to store product information of the product indexed by a product identifier of the product and provide the product information based on the product identifier of the product. In addition the system includes a mobile device of the user that includes a product scanner configured to obtain in the retail store the product identifier of the product and a mobile point of sale POS application that is configured to obtain the reference of the retail store cause the product scanner to obtain the product identifier of the product access the product database based on the reference of the retail store retrieve product information from the product database based on the product identifier and display the product information.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium embodying instructions executable by the computer to perform method steps to purchase a product by a user in a retail store. The instructions include functionality for obtaining a reference of the retail store using a mobile device of the user accessing a product database for the retail store based on the reference of the retail store obtaining in the retail store a product identifier of the product using the mobile device retrieving product information from the product database based on the product identifier and displaying the product information on the mobile device.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying Figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to a system and method of using a customer s mobile device to purchase products from a physical store i.e. a brick and mortar store while the customer is in the store and without direct interaction with the store staff. In one or more embodiments of the invention this mobile device includes one or more applications for interfacing with the merchant s product inventory for providing consumer controlled point of sale POS services to the consumer and for providing automatic inventory updates to the merchant. Accordingly the user experience may be enhanced and the operating expenses incurred by the merchant may be reduced.

As shown in the system includes one or more retail stores one or more mobile devices a location merchant orchestration server a product database and a payment server . In one or more embodiments of the invention the aforementioned components of the system are coupled via computer network . In particular the components of the system communicate with each other using network communication protocols known to those skilled in the art. Although a single computer network is shown in those skilled in the art will recognize that multiple networks with wired and or wireless segments point to point connections network gateways or other suitable coupling configurations may also be used. For example the computer network may include the Internet enterprise Intranet mobile phone service provider network the public switched telephone network PSTN etc.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the retail stores are brick and mortar stores having physical addresses locations e.g. 123 Park Ave. New York N.Y. and occupying multiple square feet of real estate on one or more floors. The retail stores sell one or more products and have one or more exit stations discussed below . Although not specifically shown the retail stores are operated by one or more merchants. Accordingly one or more of the products are tagged e.g. using a barcode a RFID tag etc. with a product ID defined by the particular merchant.

Although a specific number of each of the aforementioned components of the system are shown in any number of such components may be included in the system without deviating from the spirit of the invention. For example multiple location merchant orchestration servers product databases and or multiple payment servers may be included in the system . Further any number of the mobile devices may be used by any number of users to purchase any number of products in any number of retail stores . In this context the users of the mobile devices are considered users of the system . In other words the users of the mobile devices are the customers consumers buyers shoppers etc. of the retail stores .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product database stores inventory and product information e.g. pricing mapped to product identifiers e.g. UPC RFID etc. for a particular merchant. An example of such a database is Quickbooks a registered trademark of Intuit Inc. Mountain View Calif. . Each record of the product database corresponds to a retail store . Specifically each record corresponds to a product e.g. products product available for sale at the retail store. The record includes i a product identifier for the product ii a quantity of the product available for sale i.e. the number of units available for sale and iii product information for the product. The record includes similar components.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product identifier is a universal product code UPC a radio frequency identification RFID or another identifier known in the art. For example the product identifier may be a numeric value or an alpha numeric value attached to the product via a barcode a RFID tag or other ID tag. In one or more embodiments the product identifier is an image of a barcode a RFID tag or other ID tag while the product database is searchable based on image search functionalities.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product information includes a sale price of the product and an additional description of the product e.g. features specifications promotion discount etc. . The merchant may update the product information from time to time to reflect price changes of the product.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product database is used for multiple retail stores operated by the same merchant. Alternatively different portions of the product database are used by different merchants. As yet another alternative each retail store has its own product database .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product database is hosted on a merchant server not shown . Alternatively the product database is maintained by a third party operator and located on a server not shown of the third party operator. A merchant may have exclusive access via a secure channel to a portion of the product database corresponding to the products offered for sale by the merchant.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content of the product database is accessible by the mobile devices . Specifically when a mobile device supplies a product identifier to the product database the product information linked to the product identifier will be retrieved by the product database and returned to the mobile device. For example if the mobile device provides the product identifier to the product database the product database will respond to the mobile device with the product information . More details regarding the use of the mobile devices e.g. and the product database for making purchases are described below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the location merchant orchestration server includes one or more entries . The entry includes i geographical data for a retail store e.g. retail store retail store and ii a merchant store reference for the retail store. The entry includes similar components. The geographical data comprises a location e.g. GPS coordinates corresponding to the retail store. The merchant store reference identifies e.g. using a pointer a link IP address etc. a product inventory database e.g. product database for the retail store.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the location merchant orchestration server is part of a web service accessible by the mobile devices . Accordingly when a mobile device sends a location e.g. GPS coordinates of a retail store to the web service the web service returns a pointer to the corresponding merchant s product inventory database. Generally speaking as retail stores are added to the system an entry is added to the location merchant orchestration server .

In one or more embodiments the location merchant orchestration server is operated by a third party having a business agreement with the retail stores . Alternatively the location merchant orchestration server is operated by a merchant operating one or more of the retail stores . In such embodiments the merchant determines the content of the location merchant orchestration server and therefore determines which of the one or more of the retail stores participates in the system .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the payment server is configured to receive payment information and execute payments i.e. sales transactions for the products in the retail stores . The payment server is configured to execute sale transactions using a variety of payment methods including credit card and bank based payments such as direct debit and bank transfer. In one or more embodiments of the invention the payment server is operated by a third party separate from the merchant s of the retail stores . Example third party payment services include GoPayment a registered trademark of Intuit Inc. Mountain View Calif. and PayPal a registered trademark of PayPal Inc. San Jose Calif. . Alternatively the payment server is operated by a merchant operating one or more of the retail stores .

In one or embodiments of the invention following a sales transaction between a mobile device e.g. mobile device and a retail store e.g. retail store the payment server is configured to send an electronic receipt not shown to the mobile device and or the exit station s e.g. exit station of the retail store. The electronic receipt may list the item s sold and the sale price of each item sold. The electronic receipt may also include a unique identifier discussed below which may be stored displayed as a barcode.

In one or more embodiments of the invention following a sales transaction between a mobile device and a retail store the payment server is configured to notify a product database regarding the sales transaction. In response to the notification the record s within the product database corresponding to the sold item s are updated to reflect the change in inventory at the retail store. For example assume the quantity is the number of units of product available for sale at the retail store . Further assume a user of the mobile device purchases 2 units of product . Following the sales transaction the payment server will notify the product database regarding the sales transaction. In response to the notification the quantity will be decremented by 2 to reflect the change in inventory at the retail store . More details regarding the use of mobile devices and the payment server for making purchases are discussed below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the exit stations are computer terminals positioned at or near the exits of the retail stores . The exit stations are used to verify that a product leaving the perimeter of the retail store has been purchased. The exit stations may include one or more display screens a printer one or more audio speakers a keyboard a microphone a camera and one or more scanners e.g. barcode scanner radio frequency scanner etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention an exit station within a retail store e.g. exit station in retail store maintains copies of all electronic receipts for all sale transactions within the retail store. These copies may be stored locally at the exit terminals and may be provided to the exit stations by the payment server . Alternatively these copies may be stored at the payment server and made accessible to the exit stations . When a mobile device is within a pre determined range of an exit station e.g. the user of the mobile device is walking near or past the exit station the exit station may receive an electronic sales receipt or a code identifying an electronic sales receipt from the mobile device. The electronic sales receipt may be transmitted to the exit stations using any wireless communications technology including Bluetooth protocol radio waves infrared etc. The exit station may then compare the received electronic sales receipt or the received code identifying the electronic sales receipt with the electronic sales receipts provided by the payment server . If a match is found this confirms the mobile device initiated a successful sales transaction.

In one or more embodiments the exit station is further configured to display the received electronic sales receipt and or the results of a matching attempt for inspection by an employee of the retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device is a mobile phone a smart phone a laptop computer or a personal digital assistant PDA or any other device that can connect with the computer network . The mobile device includes a geolocation identifier a product scanner a transceiver and a mobile POS application having a shopping module and a transaction module . The mobile device includes similar components.

As shown in the mobile device is within the retail store to indicate that a user of the mobile device has entered the retail store for example to browse and or purchase various products sold by the retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes the transceiver which is configured to communicate with the location merchant orchestration sever the product database the payment server and or other components of the system via the computer network . In one or more embodiments the mobile device uses the transceiver to access a wireless e.g. WiFi 3G 4G EDGE etc. network which is a part of the computer network maintained by the retail store . In addition the mobile phone may also be equipped with various functionalities described below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes the geolocation identifier e.g. a global positioning device GPS which is configured to obtain geolocation data e.g. GPS coordinates representing a location of the mobile device . Accordingly the geolocation data obtained by the geolocation identifier may represent a location of the retail store when the mobile device is carried by the user into the retail store to browse and or purchase products etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes the product scanner e.g. an optical scanner a radio frequency scanner etc. which is configured to read product identifiers from products in the retail stores. For example when the mobile device is in the retail store the product scanner may obtain the product identifier e.g. a universal product code UPC radio frequency identification RFID etc. by scanning a product ID e.g. a barcode a RFID tag etc. not shown attached to the product .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes the mobile POS application which is a software application installed on the mobile device for making purchases at the retail stores . In particular the mobile POS application provides the user interface as well as the coordination with other components in the system to enable the user controlled POS services described below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is provided by a merchant operating one or more of the retail stores . In one or more embodiments the mobile POS application is provided by a third party operator of the location merchant orchestration server . In one or more embodiments the mobile POS application is configured to access the functionalities of various components e.g. the geolocation identifier the product scanner the transceiver etc. of the mobile device using an application programming interface API .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the geolocation identifier continuously obtains the geolocation data not shown representing a location of the mobile device . For example such operation may be initiated based on the user not shown activating a built in command of the mobile device such as a command to turn on a GPS function of a smart phone.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is configured to cause the geolocation identifier to obtain the geolocation data. For example the mobile POS application may use an API not shown obtain function of the mobile device to cause the geolocation identifier to obtain the geolocation data not shown .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is configured to cause the geolocation identifier to obtain the geolocation data responsive to receiving an obtain command from the user. For example the user not shown may turn on the mobile POS application and activate such obtain command when entering the retail store . Accordingly the obtained geolocation data represents a location of the retail store . In another example such obtain command is pre programmed to take effect when the mobile POS application is turned on for example by the user when entering the retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is configured to cause the geolocation identifier to obtain the geolocation data responsive to receiving a signal from the retail store . In such embodiments the retail store is configured to broadcast a signal e.g. wireless signal within a pre determined range of the retail store . Accordingly the mobile device is configured to receive such signal e.g. using the transceiver when brought within the pre determined range as the user enters the retail store . In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application uses an API detect function of the mobile device to detect such signal and cause the geolocation identifier to obtain the geolocation data. Accordingly the obtained geolocation data not shown represents a location of the retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is configured to send the geolocation data representing the location of the retail store to the location merchant orchestration server to obtain a merchant store reference e.g. of the retail store . For example if the geolocation data representing the location of the retail store matches the geolocation data the corresponding merchant store reference in the entry is returned to the mobile POS application . As discussed above the merchant store reference e.g. of the retail stores is used to access a product database for the retail stores . More details regarding of the use of the product database to purchase products are described later.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application is configured to use an application programming interface API not shown send function of the mobile device to access the transceiver for sending the geolocation data. As described earlier the geolocation data may be obtained continuously obtained responsive to a user command or obtained responsive to a signal received from the retail store . In one or more embodiments the mobile POS application is configured to send the obtained geolocation data not shown responsive to receiving a send command from the user not shown . In other words although the mobile POS application may be activated to obtain the geolocation data when entering the retail store the geolocation data may not be transmitted until some future time e.g. after browsing products for sale at the retail store when the user activates a send command. In one or more embodiments of the invention the obtain command and the send command are combined into a single command and pre programmed to take effect when the mobile POS application is turned on.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the retail store broadcasts a signal having the merchant store reference within a pre determined range of the retail store . For example the broadcasted signal may be based on WiFi and or Internet based push technology. In such embodiments the mobile device is configured to receive the signal e.g. via the transceiver and retrieve the merchant store reference directly without accessing the location merchant orchestration server . In addition in such embodiments it might not be necessary for the mobile device to have the geolocation identifier and for the system to have the location merchant orchestration server .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application includes the shopping module which is configured to assist the user of the mobile device in making purchases in the retail store by interacting directly with product inventory of the retail store . Specifically the shopping module is configured to cause the product scanner to obtain a product identifier of a product e.g. product access the product database for the retail store to retrieve product information regarding the products and to display the product information on a display screen of the mobile device e.g. within a virtual shopping cart .

For example the user of the mobile device may become interested in the product when browsing isles not shown of the retail store and decide to review product information of the product . In one or more embodiments of the invention the user activates a scan command of the mobile POS application while orienting the product scanner of the mobile device toward a product ID e.g. barcode RFID tag etc. attached to the product . In one or more embodiments the shopping module of the mobile POS application accesses the product scanner using an API scan function of the mobile device to initiate a scan and obtain a result of the scan. Accordingly the product identifier e.g. UPC RFID etc. of the product is obtained by the product scanner and returned to the shopping module of the mobile POS application .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user activates a built in camera of the mobile device to take a picture of a product ID e.g. barcode RFID tag etc. attached to the product . In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module of the mobile POS application accesses an optical character recognition OCR function of the mobile device to obtain a numeric or alphanumeric value e.g. text string extracted from the picture. Accordingly the product identifier e.g. UPC RFID etc. of the product is returned to the shopping module of the mobile POS application .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the product identifier e.g. UPC RFID etc. of the product is entered by a user of the mobile device and sent to the shopping module of the mobile POS application .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module is configured to access the product database based on the merchant store reference obtained earlier. As described above in an example the merchant store reference is obtained by matching the geolocation data of the retail store to the geolocation data in the entry of the location merchant orchestration server . The merchant store reference may then be used to determine a network address in the computer network for accessing the corresponding product database for the retail store . In another example the merchant store reference may be used to determine which portion of the product database is associated with the corresponding retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module of the mobile POS application is configured to retrieve product information from the product database by matching the product identifier scanned from the product to the product identifier in the record of the product database . For example the product information may include a price of the product in the retail store and other information such as features specifications promotion discount etc. of the product . In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module of the mobile POS application is configured to retrieve product information from the product database by matching a picture of the product identifier taken using a built in camera of the mobile device to images stored in the product database .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module is configured to display the product information on the mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module is configured to display a virtual shopping cart not shown on the mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the shopping module of the mobile POS application is configured to accept a shopping command from the user of the mobile device to add the product to the virtual shopping cart. Accordingly the virtual shopping cart may include the quantity description and price of the products placed in the virtual shopping cart.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile POS application includes transaction module for making purchases in the retail store by interacting directly with the payment mechanism and product inventory of the retail store . Specifically the transaction module is configured to i send payment information of the user to the payment server for executing a payment of the purchase ii provide an electronic receipt not shown to the mobile device based on the executed payment iii notify the product database to adjust inventory information reflecting the purchase and iv interact with the exit station for payment confirmation when exiting the retail store .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the electronic receipt is generated by the payment server and provided to the transaction module of the mobile POS application . The electronic receipt may be generated by the product database in cooperation with the payment server and provided to the transaction module of the mobile POS application . Alternatively the electronic receipt not shown may be generated by the transaction module of the mobile POS application directly. The electronic receipt may be stored in a memory or storage device of the mobile device and made accessible using a browser built in to the mobile device .

The processes depicted in and may be executed to purchase a product in a retail store using user controlled POS services. Moreover the process depicted in may be executed by the shopping module of the system while the process depicted in may be implemented using the transaction module of the system . Further various steps depicted in and may be executed using one or more secure wireless communication protocols over the computer network .

Initially geolocation data of the retail store is obtained using a mobile device Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes a geolocation identifier for obtaining the geolocation data representing a location of the mobile device. For example the geolocation identifier may be a global positioning system GPS and the geolocation data may include global positioning GPS coordinates.

In one or more embodiments the geolocation data of the retail store is obtained in response to the user activating the geolocation identifier on the mobile device when the user is within a certain range of the retail store. Accordingly the obtained geolocation data represents a location of the retail store.

In one or more embodiments the geolocation data of the retail store is obtained in response to the mobile device detecting a signal broadcasted by the retail store when the user carrying the mobile device is within certain range of the retail store. Accordingly the obtained geolocation data represents a location of the retail store.

In Step the geolocation data representing the location of the retail store is sent from the mobile device to a location merchant orchestration server. In response to sending the geolocation data a reference of the retail store e.g. the merchant store reference is received by the mobile device from the location merchant orchestration server. As described above the location merchant orchestration server may be part of a web service that maps a location e.g. GPS coordinates to a particular merchant or the merchant s retail store. As also described above when a location is sent to the web service the web service returns a reference identifying the corresponding merchant s product database. For example the reference may be an IP network address for the product database. In another example the reference may identify a portion of a product database corresponding to the retail store merchant when the product database is shared by many merchants.

In one or more embodiments of the invention Step and Step may be substituted with Step where the reference of the retail store is obtained from a signal broadcasted by the retail store. For example the retail store may broadcast the signal within certain range e.g. walking distance of the retail store. In one or more embodiments the broadcasted signal may be based on WiFi and or Internet based push technology.

In Step a product database for the retail store is accessed based on the reference received by the mobile device. As described above in reference to the product database stores inventory and product information e.g. pricing for products sold by the merchant retail store. As also discussed above the records of the product database includes product identifiers e.g. UPC RFID etc. to identify specific products in the retail store. In one or more embodiments of the invention the product database is maintained on a server of the merchant operating the retail store. Alternatively the product database may be maintained on a server of the third party operator in accordance with the aforementioned business agreement.

In Step a product identifier for a product is obtained by the mobile device. In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device is equipped with a product scanner e.g. an optical scanner a radio frequency scanner etc. for obtaining the product identifier. In other words the product identifier may be an UPC RFID etc. that can be obtained by scanning a product ID e.g. barcode RFID tag etc. attached to the product.

In Step product information is retrieved from the product database based on the product identifier. In other words the mobile device sends the product identifier to the product database. In response to sending the product identifier the mobile device receives the corresponding product information e.g. price of the product description of the product etc. from the product database.

In Step the product information is displayed on the mobile device. For example the user may review the product information and decide to purchase the product. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user may activate a command on the mobile device to add the product to a virtual shopping cart displayed on the mobile device. By adding the product the virtual shopping cart will include the quantity price and other product information of the added product among other previously or subsequently added products.

Turning to payment information for the user is initially sent from the mobile device to a payment server in order to purchase the product Step . The payment information may include for example the user s credit card number an expiration date of the credit card etc. The payment information may also include the total amount i.e. base amount with tax due to the retail store. In one or more embodiments of the invention the payment information is sent in response to the user activating a check out command on the mobile device. As described above in reference to above the payment service may be operated by the merchant or by a third party payment service provider.

In Step an electronic receipt is received by the mobile device following a successful sales transaction. The electronic receipt includes all items purchased from the retail store. As also discussed above the electronic receipt may include a unique identifier. The electronic receipt may be generated by the payment server by the product database in cooperation with the payment server and or by a mobile application installed on the mobile device directly. Once generated the electronic receipt may be sent to the mobile device to be stored in a memory or in a storage device of the mobile device. The electronic receipt may be accessible i.e. available for viewing using a built in browser of the mobile device.

In Step the product database for the retail store is notified regarding the successful sales transaction. Specifically the product database is notified to decrement the quantity fields in the records corresponding to the purchased products. In other words the product database is notified regarding the successful sales transaction in order to update inventory information for the retail store. In one or more embodiments of the invention the product database for the retail store is notified by the payment server and or the mobile device.

In Step the electronic receipt is sent to one or more exit stations of the retail store. In one or more embodiments of the invention the electronic receipt is sent to the exit station by the payment service when the payment is executed. Alternatively the electronic receipt is sent to the exit station by the mobile device when the user exits the retail store carrying both the mobile device and the purchased product.

In Step a signal is sent from the mobile device to the exit station in order to confirm payment. In one or more embodiments of the invention the signal includes the electronic receipt and or the unique identifier of the electronic receipt stored in the mobile device. The exit station may attempt to match the electronic receipt and or the unique identifier received from the mobile device with one of the electronic receipts and or the unique identifiers received from the payment server. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of this detailed description will appreciate that a successful match by the exit station confirms a successful sales transaction i.e. confirmation of payment .

In one or more embodiments of the invention instead of a signal to transmit the electronic receipt and or the unique identifier from the mobile device to the exit station the mobile device displays a barcode corresponding to the unique identifier. The barcode displayed on the mobile device may be scanned by a barcode scanner of the exit station in order to perform the match and confirm payment discussed above .

In one or more embodiments of the invention transmitting the electronic receipt from the mobile device to the exit station is sufficient to confirm payment i.e. no matching is required .

The location merchant service is a web service hosted on a location merchant orchestration server e.g. location merchant orchestration server described above in reference to . In response to receiving location information e.g. GPS coordinates from the mobile POS application the location merchant service maps the location information to the XYZ Store and returns the IP address of the merchant product database corresponding to the XYZ Store .

The merchant product database is a database containing product information such as price and product description. The merchant product database can be updated by the merchant operating the XYZ store allowing customers e.g. the user to instantly have the most up to date listings of products e.g. paper towel . The merchant product database may be essentially the same as the product database discussed above in reference to .

The mobile POS application installed on the smart phone is essentially the same as the mobile POS application discussed above in reference to . The mobile POS application connects to the location merchant service in order to retrieve the IP address of the merchant product database . Using this IP address the mobile POS application can request pricing information for the paper towel from the merchant product database . Specifically the user scans e.g. using the built in camera of the smart phone the barcode attached to the paper towel and submits this product identifier to the merchant product database in order to receive product information for the paper towel . Further the mobile POS application has the ability to submit requests for processing payments to the payment service by making web service calls. The payment service may be essentially the same as the payment server discussed above in reference to .

By using the location merchant service the merchant product database and the payment service the smart phone of the user can perform all shopping and checkout activities within the XYZ Store .

As shown in the user with the smart phone walks into the XYZ store and begins to shop as indicated by the browsing path . When entering the XYZ store through the entrance the user turns on the mobile POS application which automatically obtains GPS coordinates using the GPS sensor of the smart phone . Alternatively the mobile POS application may be running in the background and wake up to obtain the GPS coordinates automatically upon receiving a signal broadcasted by the XYZ store near the entrance . The mobile POS application matches the current location of the smart phone to that of the merchant operating the XYZ store using the location merchant service and connects to that merchant s product database .

As the user shops along the isle the user scans the barcode of the paper towel in the isle to retrieve up to date product information from the merchant product database . For example the mobile POS application may be equipped with the functionality to recognize the barcode from the image captured using the built in camera of the smart phone . If the user decides to purchase the paper towel the item is added to a virtual shopping cart displayed on the smart phone by the mobile POS application.

When the user wishes to checkout payment information may be entered into the smart phone and submitted to the merchant through the payment service . Alternatively the payment information may be previously stored in the smart phone or the payment service and retrieved for payment. An electronic receipt may then be generated and provided to the smart phone when the payment is executed.

The electronic receipt may be sent to the exit station from the payment service when the payment service executes the payment. When the user approaches the exit station along the exit path the electronic receipt stored in the smart phone may be transmitted to the exit station. Alternatively a barcode corresponding to the electronic receipt may be displayed on the smart phone and scanned using the scanner of the exit station . The exit station matches the electronic receipt obtained from the mobile device with an electronic receipt received from the payment service . A match confirms payment by the user for the paper towel .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user controlled POS services depicted in the and represents a fundamentally new approach in the point of sale experience for the user . Specifically the system and method provide self checkout functionality on the smart phone and the installed mobile POS application owned by and familiar to the user . The system and method also allow the user to utilize the smart phone as a mobile self checkout system at multiple merchants. In other words the user controlled POS services depicted in the allow the user to utilize a single software application on a single physical mobile device to complete checkout and payment services at multiple retail stores operated by multiple merchants.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer system may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network with wired and or wireless segments via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. computing device mentor authentication module attendance module query engine data repository etc. may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions for performing embodiments of the invention may be stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a punch card or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

