---

title: System, method, and computer readable medium for dynamically pricing an item based on service plan selection
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for providing dynamic item pricing to a customer during online shopping and/or purchasing of wireless devices. In a representative embodiment, a dynamic pricing system is executed in a computing device that generates a network page to send to a client device over a network, the network page including a price for a specified wireless device. The dynamic pricing system communicates with the client device over the network to obtain a selected service plan associated with the specified wireless device. The dynamic pricing system determines an updated price for the specified wireless device in response to the selected service plan for access by the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301513&OS=08301513&RS=08301513
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08301513
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100525
---
The online purchase of wireless devices such as cellular telephones over the Internet is complicated by the number of devices and service plans that are available through a single web site. With increasing numbers of web sites offering wireless devices device pricing has become an important consideration for customers in purchasing a device through a web site.

In the following discussion various systems and methods are described to provide dynamic item pricing to a customer during online shopping and or purchasing of wireless devices. Pricing of a wireless device may be dynamically adjusted or updated based upon the selection of a service area a service plan and or service options associated with a wireless device by a customer. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices one or more client devices and a plurality of carrier servers each of which is coupled to a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device s may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. In one embodiment the computing device represents a virtualized computer system executing on one or more physical computing systems. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device include for example an electronic commerce system and other systems applications services processes engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The electronic commerce system is executed in order to facilitate the online purchase of items such as for example wireless devices over the network . Such wireless devices may comprise for example personal digital assistants PDA cellular telephones computers cellular adapters for computers and other devices. However it is understood that the electronic commerce system may ultimately facilitate the purchase any type of item including other devices that utilize a service plan provided by a service carrier. The electronic commerce system also performs various backend functions associated with the online presence of a merchant in order to facilitate the online purchase of items as will be described. For example the electronic commerce system generates network pages such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided to client devices in response to requests for the purposes of selecting items for purchase rental download lease or other form of consumption and to perform other tasks as will be described. Among other applications the electronic commerce system includes a dynamic pricing application that is executed in order to adjust pricing of a wireless device dynamically as will be described. Dynamic pricing adjustment may also be applied to other devices that utilize a service plan provided by a service carrier.

The data stored in the data store includes for example a catalog that includes a listing of various items such as for example wireless devices and potentially other data. In addition the catalog includes a listing of service plans that may be sold in association with respective ones of the wireless devices . The service plans are offered by various service carriers. For example a service plan may involve wireless service for a wireless device. In one embodiment a wireless device may be sold in association with a given service plan as a package deal as will be described. Alternatively the wireless device may be sold separately. Ultimately once a wireless device and a service plan are sold a customer may activate the wireless service for wireless device through various network pages or through contact with the carrier server .

Also stored in the data store may be customer accounts that include various information associated with customers that purchase items through the electronic commerce system . Such information may include customer names shipping addresses billing addresses payment instruments shopping carts wish lists previous wireless device and service plan purchases and other information associated with customers as can be appreciated.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability. The client device includes a display device upon which various network pages and other content may be rendered.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser application and or other applications. The browser application may be executed in a client device for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing device and or other servers. The client device may be configured to execute applications beyond browser application such as for example e mail applications instant message IM applications and or other applications.

In addition each of the carrier servers is operated by a service carrier or provider so as to provide service for example to a wireless device in accordance with a service plan purchased by the customer. Each carrier may operate for example a wireless network to provide wireless service to the wireless device . Each carrier maintains an application programming interface API to facilitate communication with outside entities who sell service plans of the respective carrier. Once a service plan associated with a given service carrier or provider is sold then the corresponding carrier server activates the service for the purchased wireless device .

Next a general description of an example of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a customer or client may have an interest in purchasing a wireless device through the electronic commerce system as described above. As a result the customer may send an initiating request from a client device to the electronic commerce system to obtain a listing of wireless devices that are available for purchase through the electronic commerce system . In some cases the initiating request may be result of a search query for a specific wireless device or service plan .

One or more network pages may be served up to the client device associated with a respective customer to provide a listing of wireless devices e.g. cellular telephones and PDAs offered through the electronic commerce system . Such network pages may include various components that may be manipulated by the customer causing a message to be sent back to the electronic commerce system indicating customer selections regarding wireless devices wireless service plans and or service options to be included in an online purchase. For example in response to the initiating request the electronic commerce system may generate a preliminary network page that includes a listing of one or more cellular telephones offered through the electronic commerce system and a component that facilitates selection of a cellular telephone.

If the customer is interested in a listed wireless device the customer or client selects the wireless device and the client device provides an indication of the selected wireless device to the electronic commerce system . In some embodiments the customer may select more than one wireless device . In response to the selection of the wireless device the electronic commerce system generates a network page including a price for the selected wireless device as well as other information related to the selected wireless device . The network page is then served up to the client device associated with a respective customer for rendering.

To provide this information to a potential customer the network page of includes a price that is offered by the electronic commerce system for the selected wireless device . In the example of the minimum offer price available through the electronic commerce system is indicated. Price may be dynamically adjusted based upon the service type service plan and or service options selected by the customer. A component to facilitate selection by the customer of a service type associated with the selected wireless device may be included in the network page . In the embodiment of the component includes options for new and existing contracts corresponding to individual or family accounts. Other embodiments may provide for different service types and or transactions.

In the example of the customer selects a service type through component of network page . For instance the customer may wish to purchase a replacement wireless device because of an accident or another reason. If the customer has an existing wireless contract the customer may select an option under Existing Customer as illustrated by selection of . If the customer does not have an existing contract for wireless service the customer may select an option under New Contract. The selected service type is sent to the electronic commerce system where the dynamic pricing application receives the information. In other embodiments current customer service plan information may be available through a customer account or on client device . Component may designate a service type based upon the current customer service plan information. The customer may then use component to change the selection as desired.

In response to the selected service type the dynamic pricing application determines an adjusted or updated price based for example upon the wireless device and the selected service type. In some embodiments the updated price may be determined using one or more lookup tables. For example the wireless device may have a base price that is adjusted based upon customer selections. The adjustment value may be an adder positive adjustment or discount negative adjustment determined from a lookup table based upon the selected service type and added to or subtracted from the base price to determine the updated price for the wireless device . Alternatively the updated price may be obtained directly from a lookup table based upon the wireless device and the selected service type.

The updated price is then provided to the client device by the dynamic pricing application of the electronic commerce system . In one embodiment the updated price is provided to a browser application to update the network page . In another embodiment a new network page including the updated price is provided to the client device for rendering as illustrated in . As depicted in price of has been dynamically adjusted based upon the selected service type and displayed as updated price . In some embodiments the selected service type may not affect the price of the wireless device causing the updated price to remain the same as the original price .

Component of network pages and may also obtain information corresponding to a service area associated with the service contract such as but not limited to a postal code e.g. a zip code an area code or an existing telephone number. In the embodiments of component facilitates the collection of a zip code. Availability of wireless providers service plans and service options associated with the selected wireless device may be restricted by the identified service area thereby affecting the updated price for the wireless device .

In some embodiments a plurality of selected wireless devices and their corresponding prices may be displayed in a single network page . Selection of a service type by the customer may cause one or more of the corresponding prices to be updated as described above allowing the customer to compare prices between different wireless devices on a single network page . Additionally specifying a zip code or other area designation may affect the pricing of some or all of the plurality of wireless devices . In some cases one or more wireless devices may be eliminated from the network page because service plans are not available in the identified area.

The customer may then proceed with the purchasing process by requesting that the selected wireless device be added to a shopping cart using icon . In the case of a plurality of selected wireless devices the customer may indicate that a specific wireless device is to be added to the cart. In response to the request of the customer the electronic commerce system generates a new network page for selection of a service plan associated with the selected wireless device .

Referring next to shown is an example of a service plan network page generated in response to the customer request. The service plan network page includes an indication of the selected wireless device the updated price and a component that facilitates selection of a service plan associated with the selected wireless device . In some embodiments all available service plans are presented in the network page. Alternatively the service plans may be filtered or restricted to reduce the number of presented service plans . For example in the exemplary embodiment of component includes display options to limit the presented service plans by plan type service carrier and or plan minutes . As can be understood other display options may be used as appropriate.

In three service plans are presented based at least in part upon the selected display options and . In one embodiment a service plan may be selected by the customer and sent to the electronic commerce system . Upon receiving the service plan selection the dynamic pricing application further adjusts the price of the selected wireless device and returns the further updated price to the client device . In some embodiments the updated price of network page is replaced with the further updated or adjusted price. Alternatively a new network page may be provided with the further updated price. In other embodiments the updated price is not adjusted until after the selected service plan is added to the cart using icons .

The updated price for the selected wireless device may be further adjusted based for example upon the wireless device service type and or selected service plan using a lookup table and an adjustment value as discussed above. The adjustment value may be an adder positive adjustment or discount negative adjustment determined from a lookup table based upon the selected service plan and added to or subtracted from the base price to determine the updated price for the wireless device . Alternatively the price of the selected wireless device may be adjusted based upon e.g. a percentage of the commission provided by the service carrier or provider for the selected service plan a percentage of the monthly cost of the selected service plan a percentage of the total cost of the selected service plan over the term of the contract or based upon a fixed amount corresponding to the selected service plan . In some embodiments the adjustment of the price may be tiered based upon the cost of the service plan . For example service plans above a predetermined amount e.g. 49.99 may be adjusted by a first amount and service plans at or below the predetermined amount may be adjusted by a second amount or may not be adjusted at all. Additional tiers may be used as can be appreciated. The customer may then proceed with the purchasing process by requesting that the selected service plan be added to the shopping cart including the selected wireless device using icons .

In some embodiments a single network page may allow selection of the service type and the service plan. illustrates an example of a network page generated by the electronic commerce system in response to the selection of one or more wireless devices by the customer or client . In the exemplary embodiment of the network page may include various information regarding the selected wireless device s such as but not limited to a picture of the device s availability information product description and key features and a list price for each device . To provide information to a potential customer the network page also includes a price that is offered by the electronic commerce system for the selected wireless device s .

In the example of the customer selects a service type through component of network page . For example if the customer has an existing wireless contract the customer may select an option under Existing Customer such as adding another line as illustrated by selection of . Selection of a service type by the customer may cause one or more of the corresponding prices to be updated as described above. Component of network page may also obtain information corresponding to a service area associated with the service contract such as but not limited to a postal code e.g. a zip code an area code or an existing telephone number. Specifying an area designation may affect the pricing of some or all of the wireless device s . In some cases one or more wireless devices may be eliminated from the network page because service plans are not available in the identified area.

The updated price is then provided to the client device by the dynamic pricing application of the electronic commerce system . In one embodiment the updated price is provided to a browser application to update the network page . In another embodiment a new network page including the updated price is provided to the client device for rendering. In some embodiments the selected service type may not affect the price s of the wireless device s causing one or more price s to remain the same.

In the embodiment of a service plan may also be selected through network page . Network page includes a component that facilitates selection of a service plan associated with the selected wireless device s . Selection of a service plan by the customer e.g. as indicated by may cause one or more of the corresponding price s to be further updated as described above. In some embodiments all available service plans are presented in the network page. Alternatively the service plans may be filtered or restricted to reduce the number of presented service plans . For example in the exemplary embodiment of component includes display options to limit the presented service plans by plan type service carrier and or plan minutes . As can be understood other display options may be used as appropriate.

The customer may then proceed with the purchasing process by requesting that the selected wireless device s and service plan be added to a shopping cart using icon . In some embodiments including a plurality of selected wireless devices the customer may select one or more specific wireless device s to be added to the cart.

In response to the request of the customer the electronic commerce system generates another network page for selection of service options associated with the selected wireless device and the selected service plan . provides an example of a network page generated by the electronic commerce system in response to the request by the customer or client . In the exemplary embodiment of the service option network page includes a further updated price for the selected wireless device that was readjusted based upon the selected wireless device the selected service type and or the selected service plan .

Network page also includes a component to facilitate selection of one or more service plan options associated with the selected wireless device and the selected service plan . A variety of options may be presented in the network page as depicted in the non limiting embodiment of . In one embodiment the dynamic pricing application readjusts the price of the selected wireless device as options are selected. In some embodiments the price of the selected wireless device is readjusted if the total cost of the selected options exceeds a predefined limit or is within a predefined tier . In another embodiment the price of the selected wireless device is updated after the selected service option s is are added to the cart using icon . When the customer requests that the service options be added to the shopping cart a summary network page may be generated by the electronic commerce system and provided to the client device for rendering. The summary network page includes final pricing for the selected wireless device selected service plan and any selected options added to the shopping cart.

While the examples of produce an outstanding cost for the selected wireless device in some embodiments negative adjustments to the price may exceed the price of the selected wireless device . For example if the dynamic pricing application determines that the selected service plan and service options provide a negative price adjustment of 85.00 this would exceed the cost of a 79.99 wireless device. In some embodiments the updated price for the selected wireless device would be limited to a nominal amount e.g. 0.01 or to no cost i.e. 0.00 . Alternatively the electronic commerce system may offer a credit in the amount of the excess adjustment or discount for additional purchases through the electronic commerce system . For instance in the above example a credit for 5.01 may be applied to the customer account to be used for purchases of other items through the electronic commerce system . In some embodiments the credit may be limited to the purchase of items associated with the selected wireless device such as but not limited to applications ring tones or digital music that may be downloaded and used on the selected wireless device .

Referring next to shown are flowcharts and that provide an example of the operation of a portion of a dynamic pricing system according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowcharts and of provide merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the depicted functionality of the dynamic pricing system as described herein. As an alternative the flowcharts and of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with block of an initiating request is obtained by an electronic commerce system from a client device over a network . The initiating request may be in the form of but is not limited to a request to access a network page of the electronic commerce system . In response to the initiating request the electronic commerce system generates a preliminary network page for selection of a wireless device in block . The preliminary network page includes a component that facilitates selection by a customer of a wireless device that is available through the electronic commerce system . The network page is then provided to the client device in block for rendering. The customer may then utilize the component in the network page to select a desired wireless device .

In block the electronic commerce system obtains the selected wireless device from the client device . In some embodiments multiple wireless devices may be selected. When the selection is complete the customer may provide an indication or request to proceed. For example the customer may confirm that the selection is complete by selecting a designated icon on the network page . If a request to proceed is obtained in block then the electronic commerce system generates a network page for selection of a service type associated with the selected wireless device in block . The service type network page e.g. network page of includes a price for the selected wireless device and a component that facilitates selection of a service type associated with the selected wireless device . In block the service type network page is provided to the client device for rendering. The customer may then select a service type utilizing the component of the service type network page . Alternatively a service type may be determined for example by the electronic commerce system based upon customer account information or by a browser application based upon customer information stored on the client device .

Referring next to a selected service type is obtained by the electronic commerce system in block . An updated price for the selected wireless device is then determined by the dynamic pricing application based upon the selected wireless device and the selected service type in block as previously described. The updated price is then provided to the client device for customer access. In some embodiments the updated price is provided and the service type network page is revised with the updated price. Alternatively a new service type network page may be generated with the updated price and served up to the client device for rendering.

If a request to proceed is not obtained in block then in block it is determined if another service type has been selected. If another selected service type has been obtained then another updated price is determined in block based upon the selected wireless device and the newly selected service type and provided to the client device . This process may repeat until a request to proceed is obtained in block . For example the customer may indicate through a service type network page that the selected wireless device and service type be added to a shopping cart by selecting icon .

Once a request to proceed is obtained in block the electronic commerce system generates a network page for selection of a service plan associated with the selected wireless device in block . The service plan network page includes the updated price for the selected wireless device and a component that facilitates selection of the service plan . The network page is provided to the client device for rendering in block . The customer may then use the component of the service plan network page e.g. component of network page of to select the service plan .

The selected service plan is obtained by the electronic commerce system in block . A revised updated price for the selected wireless device is then determined by the dynamic pricing application in block . The updated price may be revised or adjusted based for example upon the selected wireless device the selected service type and or the selected service plan . The newly updated price is provided to the client device for customer access.

If a request to proceed is not obtained in block of then in block it is determined if another service plan has been selected. If another selected service plan has been obtained then another updated price is determined in block based for example upon the selected wireless device the selected service type and or the newly selected service plan and provided to the client device . This process may repeat until a request to proceed is obtained in block of . For example the customer may indicate through one of the icons of a service plan network page that the selected service plan be added to the shopping cart with the selected wireless device .

When the request to proceed is obtained in block of the electronic commerce system generates a network page for selection of a service plan option associated with the selected wireless device in block . The service option network page includes the further updated price for the selected wireless device that was readjusted based upon selection of a service plan . The service option network page also includes a component that facilitates selection of one or more service options associated with the selected service plan and selected wireless device e.g. component of network page of . The network page is provided to the client device for rendering in block . The customer may then use the component of the service plan network page to select the service option s .

One or more selected service option is obtained by the electronic commerce system in block . An updated price for the selected wireless device may then determined by the dynamic pricing application by adjusting the price of the selected wireless device based upon the selected service option s in block . The adjusted price is then provided to the client device for customer access. In some embodiments the updated price may not be adjusted until the cost of the selected service options exceeds a predefined threshold.

If a request to proceed is not obtained in block then in block it is determined if another service option has been selected or if one of the selected service options has be removed or changed. If a change in selected service options has been obtained then another updated price is determined in block by further adjustment based for example upon the selected wireless device the selected service plan and or the selected service options and provided to the client device . This process may repeat until a request to proceed is obtained in block . For example the customer may indicate through the component of a service option network page that the selected service options be added to the shopping cart by selecting icon . Once a request to proceed is obtained in block the electronic commerce system generates a network page to summarize the selections of the customer and provides it to the client device for rendering in block .

In some embodiments a single network page may allow selection of the service type and the service plan. illustrates a flowchart depicting the operation of a portion of the dynamic pricing system according to various embodiments. For example blocks may be replaced by the blocks of flowchart . From block of if a request to proceed is obtained then the electronic commerce system may generate a network page for selection of a service type and or service plan associated with the selected wireless device in block . The network page e.g. network page of includes a price for the selected wireless device and components that facilitate selection of a service type and a service plan associated with the selected wireless device . In block the network page is provided to the client device for rendering. The customer may then select a service type and or a service plan utilizing the components of the service type network page .

The selected service type and or service plan is obtained by the electronic commerce system in block . An updated price for the selected wireless device is then determined by the dynamic pricing application based upon the selected wireless device and the selected service type and or service plan in block as previously described. The updated price is then provided to the client device for customer access. In some embodiments the updated price is provided and the network page is revised with the updated price. Alternatively a new network page may be generated with the updated price and served up to the client device for rendering.

If a request to proceed is not obtained in block then in block it is determined if another service type and or service plan has been selected. If another selected service type and or service plan has been obtained then another updated price is determined in block based upon the selected wireless device and the currently selected service type and or service plan and provided to the client device . This process may repeat until a request to proceed is obtained in block . For example the customer may indicate through a network page that the selected wireless device and service type and or service plan be added to a shopping cart by selecting icon .

When the request to proceed is obtained in block the electronic commerce system may generate a network page for selection of a service plan option associated with the selected wireless device in block of . In some embodiments the dynamic pricing system may not proceed to block unless both a service type and a service plan have been selected. In that case the dynamic pricing system may provide an indication that the remaining item service type or service plan has not been selected for rendering by the client device . In other embodiments the dynamic pricing system may proceed to block if at least a service plan has been selected.

As discussed above the service option network page includes the further updated price for the selected wireless device that was readjusted based upon selection of a service plan and or a service type. The service option network page also includes a component that facilitates selection of one or more service options associated with the selected service plan and selected wireless device e.g. component of network page of . The dynamic pricing system may then proceed through the remaining blocks of as described above.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the electronic commerce system including the dynamic pricing application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java Java Script Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the electronic commerce system and more specifically the dynamic pricing application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of a dynamic pricing system including the dynamic pricing application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the electronic commerce system and more specifically the dynamic pricing application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

