---

title: Zirconium hydroxide for decontaminating toxic agents
abstract: The present invention relates to a process for decontaminating surfaces contaminated with toxic agents. The process comprises contacting a contaminated surface with a sorbent comprised of zirconium hydroxide onto which at least one reactive moiety is optionally impregnated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08530719&OS=08530719&RS=08530719
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08530719
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101102
---
This invention relates to sorbents and methods of making and using the same for decontaminating surfaces contaminated with highly toxic agents including chemical warfare CW agents and or industrial chemicals insecticides and the like.

Exposure to toxic agents such as CW agents and related toxins is a potential hazard to the armed forces and to civilian populations since CW agents are stockpiled by several nations and other nations and groups actively seek to acquire these materials. Some commonly known CW agents are bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide HD or mustard gas pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate GD Tabun GA Sarin GB cyclosarin GF and O ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate VX as well as analogs and derivatives of these agents and any additional nerve or vesicant agents. These CW agents are generally delivered as fine aerosol mists which aside from presenting an inhalation threat will deposit on surfaces of military equipment and hardware including uniforms weapons vehicles vans and shelters. Once such equipment and hardware is contaminated with one of the previously mentioned highly toxic agents the agent must be removed in order to minimize contact hazards.

For this reason there is an acute need to develop and improve technology for decontaminating highly toxic materials. This is especially true for the class of toxic agents known as nerve agents which are produced and stockpiled for both industrial use and as CW agents. One class of nerve agents with a high level of potential lethality is the class that includes organophosphorus based OP compounds including but not limited to Sarin Soman and VX. Such agents can be absorbed through inhalation and or through the skin of an animal or person. The organophosphorus type OP CW materials typically manifest their lethal effects against animals and people by inhibiting acetylcholine esterase AChE enzyme at neuromuscular junctions between nerve endings and muscle tissue to produce an excessive buildup of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in an animal or person. This can result in paralysis and death in a short time.

In addition to the concerns about CW agents there is also a growing need in the industry for decontaminating industrial chemicals and or insecticides for example AChE inhibiting pesticides such as parathion paraoxon and malathion among others. Thus it is very important to be able to effectively detoxify a broad spectrum of toxic agents including but not limited to organophosphorus type compounds from contaminated surfaces and sensitive equipment.

Furthermore CW agents and related toxins are so hazardous that simulants have been developed for purposes of screening decontamination and control methods. HD simulants include 2 chloroethylethyl sulfide CEES and 2 chloroethylphenyl sulfide CEPS . G agent simulants include dimethyl methyl phosphonate DMMP . VX simulants include O S diethyl phenylphosphonothioate DEPPT .

Currently the U.S. Army uses a nerve agent decontamination solution called DS2 which is composed by weight of 2 NaOH 28 ethylene glycol monomethyl ether and 70 diethylenetriamine Richardson G. A. Development of a package decontamination system EACR 1 310 17 U.S. Army Edgewood Arsenal Contract Report 1972 incorporated by reference herein . Although this decontamination solution is effective against OP nerve agents it is quite toxic flammable highly corrosive and releases toxic by products into the environment. For example a component of DS2 namely diethylenetriamine is a teratogen so that the manufacture and use of DS2 also presents a potential health risk. DS2 protocol calls for waiting 30 minutes after DS2 application then rinsing the treated area with water in order to complete the decontamination operation. The use of water in the operation presents logistics burdens as now large volumes of water must be transported and stockpiled at the decontamination site.

The U.S. Army also uses a decontamination material called XE555 resin Ambergard Rohm Haas Company Philadelphia Pa. to remove toxic agents from the contaminated surface as rapidly as possible. However XE555 has several disadvantages. Although effective at removing chemical agents XE555 does not possesses sufficient reactive properties to neutralize the toxic agent s absorbed by this resin. Thus after use for decontamination purposes XE555 itself presents an ongoing threat from off gassing toxins and or vapors mixed with the resin. In addition XE555 is relatively expensive in the quantities required for decontamination purposes.

Meanwhile reactive sorbents have been developed and used to both absorb and react with highly toxic materials to yield less toxic products. One example is M100 sorbent decontamination system SDS for decontaminating highly toxic materials. The M100 SDS utilizes an alumina based reactive sorbent called A 200 SiC 1005S which is in the form of a powder. The reactive sorbent powder acts as an inexpensive non corrosive non harmful absorber designed to be rubbed onto a contaminated surface and does not require water rinse or special disposal. The reactive sorbent is structured to flow readily across a contaminated surface and is highly porous allowing it to absorb the highly toxic material quickly. The absorbed highly toxic material is strongly retained within the pores of the reactive sorbent which reacts to form less toxic products thereby minimizing off gassing and contact hazards. Details of this sorbent are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 6 852 903.

Another example is U.S. Pat. No. 5 689 038 to Bartram and Wagner disclosing the use of an aluminum oxide or a mixture of aluminum oxide and magnesium monoperoxyphthalate MMPP as reactive sorbents to decontaminate surfaces contacted with droplets of chemical warfare agents. It has been reported that both materials were able to effectively remove such toxic agents from a surface to the same extent as XE555. In addition both materials represented improvements in chemical warfare agent degrading reactivity and in reducing off gassing of toxins relative to XE555. The reported sorbents were based on pre existing commercially available materials such as Selexsorb CD a product of the Alcoa Company. Essentially Bartram and Wagner reported that their aluminum oxide is modified by size reduction grinding or milling.

Another example is U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 382 to Bartram and Wagner disclosing the use of two types of reactive sorbents. One comprises metal exchanged zeolites such as silver exchanged zeolite and the other comprises sodium zeolites. The reactive sorbents remove and then decompose chemical agents from the surface being decontaminated. Similar in all reactive sorbents this dual action provides the advantage of reducing the risks associated with potential off gassing from the sorbent and reducing the toxicity of the sorbent for disposal purposes.

However inasmuch as the above mentioned solid phase decontaminants are able to quickly remove CWAs from surfaces they suffer from slow reactions with the adsorbed agents. Once contaminated these sorbents present a persistent hazard themselves following their use. The hazard is particularly acute for VX the most persistent and toxic of these agents where half lives ranging from several hours to several days and even months are not uncommon.

Recently two notable improvements on absorbing and removing VX have been reported. The first by Wagner Wu and Kleinhammers U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 668 524 Nanotubular Titania for Decontamination of Chemical Warfare Agents and Wagner G. W. Chen Q. Wu Y. Reactions of VX GD and HD with Nanotubular Titania J. Phys. Chem. C 2008 112 11901 11906 discloses that VX reacts rapidly with nanotubular titania NTT . This material affords VX half lives on the order of several minutes Wagner G. W. unpublished results . A second titania material nanocrystalline titania nTiO exhibits an even faster VX reactivity allowing half lives less than 2 minutes Wagner G. W. Decontamination Efficacy of Candidate Nanocrystalline Sorbents with Comparison to SDS A 200 Sorbent Reactivity and Chemical Agent Resistant Coating Panel Testing ECBC TR 724 in press unclassified report .

Still there remains a need in the art for even more rapid and effective sorbents for decontaminating toxic agents and the methods for rapidly and effectively removing and or decontaminating toxic agents in an environmentally acceptable and cost effective process.

This invention relates to novel processes for decontaminating surfaces contaminated with toxic agents using sorbents. The sorbent is comprised of zirconium hydroxide Zr OH wherein the sorbent is found to be effective and rapid in decontaminating toxic agents.

The present invention relates to a sorbent which has been found useful in processes for removing and subsequently detoxifying toxic materials from surfaces. The sorbent is comprised of zirconium hydroxide Zr OH wherein upon contact with the toxic materials the half lives of the toxic materials are rapidly and greatly reduced.

Accordingly the invention provides novel methods for removing and detoxifying a wide range of highly toxic materials including CW agents. In order to appreciate the scope of the invention the terms toxin toxic agent and toxic material are intended to be equivalent unless expressly stated to the contrary. In addition the terms nerve gas nerve agent vesicant neurotoxic and the like are intended to be equivalent and to refer to a toxin that acts or manifests toxicity at least in part by disabling a component of an animal nervous system e.g. AchE inhibitors.

In addition the use of a term in the singular is intended to encompass its plural in the appropriate context unless otherwise stated. In addition reference herein to toxic agents are intended to encompass CW agents including e.g. bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide HD or mustard gas pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate GD Tabun GA Sarin GB cyclosarin GF and O ethyl S 2 diisopropylamino ethyl methylphosphonothioate VX other toxic organophosphorus type agents their analogs or derivatives and similar such art known toxins. In addition unless otherwise stated the term toxic agent as used herein is also intended to include toxic industrial chemicals including but not limited to organophosphorus type insecticides and the like.

Broadly the novel methods provided by the invention are directed to the use of modified sorbents effective for removing and then deactivating or neutralizing toxic agents. The term sorbents according to the invention includes any composition that is capable of absorbing adsorbing or otherwise taking up harmful toxic materials including toxic agents and then catalytically or stoichiometrically reacting converting deactivating neutralizing or detoxifying at least a portion of the absorbed toxic agent. The term surfaces applies to hard surfaces such as counter tops concrete metals plastic tiles and so forth soft surfaces such as fabric film leather carpet or upholstery or that of human or animal skin surfaces.

Zirconium hydroxide Zr OH or hydrous zirconia is used as a sorbent in the present invention. Zirconium hydroxide is an amorphous white powder that is insoluble in water. The structure of zirconium hydroxide Zr OH may be represented as a two dimensional square lattice each connected by a double hydroxyl bridge yielding a stoichiometric Zr OH . Zr OH particles contain both terminal and bridging hydroxyl groups. Although we refer to the substrate as zirconium hydroxide the product may be in the form of a polymorph of zirconium hydroxide zirconium oxyhydroxide and zirconium oxide. The Zr OH may be in amorphous state crystalline solid or mixture thereof.

The sorbent preferably exhibits an average particle size of from about 5 nm to 5 m. If not commercially available in these ranges the sorbents can be readily rendered into these ranges by pulverization milling and the like. The sorbent further exhibits a surface area in the range of from about 20 to 1000 m g and more preferably from about 300 to 600 m g. The sorbent exhibits a pore volume in the range of from about 0.1 to 1.0 cm g and more preferably from about 0.4 to 0.7 cm g.

The sorbent is in the form of unagglomerated or agglomerated powder agglomerated particles granules or compacted sheet. As granules the sorbent has a particle size of about 0.1 mm to about 4 mm. The sorbent can also be formulated into aerosol paste foams slurry or patch gel or cream. The sorbent can further be incorporated into coatings paints fabrics suits and garments.

At least one reactive and or catalytic moiety functional group is are optionally incorporated onto the sorbent. Suitable reactive moieties are selected from base metals. The suitable base metals include vanadium chromium manganese iron cobalt nickel copper zinc silver molybdenum and mixtures thereof. Copper zinc and silver are preferred. The base metal is present in the amount of about 5 to about 40 by weight of the sorbent. An amount of about 15 to about 25 is also useful.

The suitable reactive moieties are also selected from amines. The suitable amines are triethylamine TEA quinuclidine QUIN triethylenediamine TEDA pyridine and pyridine carboxylic acids such as pyridine 4 carboxylic acid P4CA . Triethylenediamine is most preferred. The loading of TEDA can be as low as 0 wt. or as high as about 6 wt. . A preferred amount of TEDA used is of from about 3 to about 6 by weight of the sorbent.

The optional reactive moieties can be used sequentially in combination or as a combined mixture with porous zirconium hydroxide.

The porous zirconium hydroxide is also optionally filled uniformly or saturated with a sufficient amount of an organic solvent while maintaining the modified sorbents in a dry free flowing powder form. The organic solvent occupying the pores of the sorbents can be in a liquid or solid phase.

The selection of the organic solvent can be made from any organic solvent capable of dissolving all highly toxic materials including chemical warfare agents and remaining non reactive with the sorbent while exhibiting sufficiently low volatility to remain on the sorbent during the decontamination phase. In a more preferred embodiment of the present invention the organic solvent is an alkane having a chemical formula CH wherein n is at least 9 and preferably at least 20 and combinations thereof. In a most preferred embodiment of the present invention the organic solvent is selected from mineral oil paraffin wax and combinations thereof.

The amount of organic solvent present to sufficiently saturate the pores of the sorbent while maintaining the sorbent in a dry free flowing powder form ranges from about 5 to 50 by weight preferably 15 to 35 by weight and more preferably 20 to 30 by weight based on the total weight of the modified sorbent. Alternatively the amount of the organic solvent is present in a sorbent to solvent weight proportion of about 10 parts sorbent to a range of from about 1 to 5 parts solvent and more preferably of from about 2 to 3 parts solvent. Further information regarding sorbents impregnated by organic solvents can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 678 736 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Other optional materials are but not limited to fragrance surfactants dispersants antiseptics soil release polymer color indicating materials color speckles colored beads dyes sealants and mixtures thereof.

Zirconium hydroxide may be prepared by precipitating zirconium salts such as for example zirconium oxynitrate and zirconium oxychloride in aqueous solutions using alkaline solutions to bring about precipitation. Examples of alkaline solutions include ammonium hydroxide potassium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide. Alternatively zirconium hydroxide may be purchased from a commercial source such as Magnesium Elektron Inc. or MEL Chemicals of Flemington N.J. The substrate may be in the form of a polymorph of zirconium hydroxide zirconium oxyhydroxide and zirconium oxide.

Porous zirconium hydroxide impregnated with reactive moieties may be prepared using techniques well known to one skilled in the art. The powder in agglomerated or non agglomerated form is then impregnated using ammonium solutions containing the target concentration of base metal s and if desired alkali metals. Following impregnation the material is then dried at temperatures not to exceed about for example 200 C. and preferably not to exceed about for example 100 C. as this will bring about the dehydration of the zirconium hydroxide reducing its porosity and also its sorbent effectiveness.

Following drying the impregnated material if desired can then be forwarded for amine such as for example TEDA impregnation. TEDA impregnation may be performed using techniques known to one skilled in the art. Preferably TEDA is impregnated via a sublimation operation. For example a known mass of the impregnated powder plus the desired amount of TEDA are loaded into a V blender or rotating drum for example for the purpose of contacting the formed powder with TEDA. During the operation TEDA will sublime into the pores of the powder over time. Heating the apparatus to temperatures on the order of about 50 C. to 100 C. for example will speed the sublimation operation.

The TEDA containing impregnated powder is then formed into the desired geometric form e.g. particles beads extrudates etc. of the desired size using techniques known to those skilled in the art. One method is to form the powder into pills or tablets using a tableting machine. Alternatively the powder can be pressed into large tablets which are then crushed and sieved into particles of the desired mesh size.

A more preferred method of preparation involves impregnation of the porous Zr OH in the form of a powder. This is accomplished using impregnation techniques as described above. For example the Zr OH powder is preferably dried at for example 100 C. to remove pre adsorbed moisture. An impregnation solution is prepared by dissolving a base metal salt e.g. carbonate in a concentrated ammonium solution. The powder is then contacted with the solution until incipient wetness is achieved. At this point the powder is dried in an oven at for example 100 C. Once dry the powder can be impregnated with TEDA by placing the desired amount of powder and the desired amount of TEDA in a device designed to contact the two materials such as for example a V blender or rotating drum. The TEDA and impregnated powder are blended for a time sufficient to allow the TEDA to sublime into the pores. The TEDA containing impregnated powder is then formed into the desired geometric form e.g. particles beads extrudates etc. of the desired size using techniques known to those skilled in the art. One method is to form the powder into pills or tablets using a tableting machine. Alternatively the powder can be pressed into large tablets which are then crushed and sieved into particles of the desired mesh size.

An even more preferred method of preparation involves precipitation of the metals onto the porous Zr OH substrate. For example Zr OH powder is slurried in water. To the slurry is added a predetermined amount of alkali metal hydroxide such as for example sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide or lithium hydroxide. A second solution is prepared containing a base metal salt dissolved in DI water for example zinc sulfate zinc nitrate zinc chloride zinc acetate copper sulfate copper nitrate copper chloride silver nitrate silver chloride silver acetate silver sulfate etc. Mixtures of salts may also be employed. The solution is then added to the slurry. The pH of the slurry is then adjusted to the target value of between about 5 and about 13 preferably between about 7 and about 11 more preferably between about 9 and about 10. The pH adjuster is an appropriate acid such as for example sulfuric acid nitric acid hydrochloric acid or formic acid. The reduction in pH will result in the base metal being precipitated onto the surface of the zirconium hydroxide substrate likely in the form of a metal hydroxide such as zinc hydroxide copper hydroxide etc. Upon completion of the precipitation the slurry is filtered then washed with DI water to remove any residual acid. The resulting solids are dried. The resulting dried powder may then be impregnated with TEDA as described previously. Upon completion of the TEDA impregnation operation the resulting powder may be formed into particles as described previously using techniques known to one skilled in the art or simply kept as a powder.

An advantage of the above mentioned precipitation procedure is that the use of ammonia can be readily avoided so ammonia off gassing from the sorbent will not occur.

Porous zirconium hydroxide impregnated with organic solvents may be prepared using techniques well known to one skilled in the art. Preferably the sorbent is suitably dried to remove any moisture from the surface and the pores to less than 0.5 water. The sorbent may be suitably dried by simple heating in air inert atmosphere or under vacuum for example. Depending on the scale the mixing vessel can be selected from a rotary evaporator cone blender ribbon mixer V blender and the like or any device or technique suitable for contacting liquids and solids and the actual amounts can vary in proportion to the desired scale of manufacture. Thus each 100 g of sorbent is mixed with from about 80 to about 120 g of organic solvent depending on the porosity of the employed sorbent. For organic solvents that are solid at room temperature e.g. paraffin wax the organic solvent must be melted down to a liquid phase for impregnating the sorbent. Once in the vessel the organic solvent in liquid phase is contacted with the sorbent under an inert atmosphere e.g. dry N until insipient wetness is achieved. Alternatively the sorbent can be contacted with the organic solvent by spraying dripping and the like.

Once the impregnation step is complete at least a portion of the excess organic solvent is evaporated. In particular the excess organic solvent is evaporated from the sorbent such that the resulting sorbent has from about 10 to about 100 of the pore volume filled with the organic solvent and preferably from about 50 to about 90 of the pore volume filled.

In carrying out the process of the invention the sorbent is placed in direct contact with the contaminated surface that is intended to be detoxified or rendered free of toxic agents.

The decontamination operation can take place over a wide range of temperatures and humidity values consistent with ambient conditions. For example the contacting step can be carried out at a temperature of from about 40 C. to about 200 C. preferably about 40 C. to about 45 C. The relative humidity can be as low as less than 10 to greater than 90 .

It is preferred that the sorbent be allowed to contact the contaminated surfaces for at least about 0.5 minutes preferably from about 1 100 minutes and more preferably from about 1.5 20 minutes.

The methods of the present invention for decontaminating surfaces can be carried out by spraying rubbing brushing dipping dusting or otherwise contacting the sorbents of the invention with a surface or composition that is believed to be in need of such treatment. Upon contact the toxic agents are detoxified within the pores of the sorbent after their half lives have been reduced to an acceptable level.

In one embodiment of the invention the reactive sorbent is dispersed as a suspension in a suitable carrier. Suitable carriers include polar and nonpolar solvents e.g. water based or organic solvent based carriers. Preferably the carrier is prepared with sufficient viscosity to allow the composition to remain on treated articles or surfaces for a sufficient time period to remove contaminants.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the sorbent is applied as a dry powder or dust onto contaminated articles or surfaces.

The sorbent powder can be poured onto the surface. Preferably the sorbent powder is rubbed across the surface via a manual or mechanical action resulting in good contact between droplets of at least one toxic agent located on the surface and the sorbent powder. Good contact is defined herein as at least 80 surface to surface contact between two objects with a minimal obstruction. Methods for facilitating contacting between at least one toxic agent located on the surface and the sorbent may simply include rubbing with a wash mitt brush or cloth applicator.

In another preferred embodiment the granulated form is optionally formulated so as to remain cohesive while absorbing a liquid suspected of containing toxic agents. Advantageously the used sorbent in granulate form is readily scooped or shoveled off the treated surface for further processing or disposal.

The artisan will appreciate that selection of the form in which the inventive composition is dispersed will depend upon the physical form of the contaminant s the nature of the terrain and or equipment or personal needing decontamination and the practical needs of distribution and removal of the used or spent sorbent.

For purposes of the present invention it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the term sufficient as used in conjunction with the terms amount time and conditions represents a quantitative value that provides a satisfactory and desired result i.e. detoxifying toxic agents or decontaminating surfaces which have been in contact with toxic agents. The amounts conditions and time required to achieve the desired result will of course vary somewhat based upon the amount of toxic agent present and the area to be treated. For purposes of illustration the amount of sorbent required for decontaminating a surface is generally at minimum an amount that is sufficient to cover the affected area surface. The time required for achieving a satisfactory detoxification or neutralization of toxic agents is in the range of about less than 30 seconds to about 3 hours.

One of ordinary skills in the art would appreciate that the present invention can be use by military personnel police officers firefighters or other first responders in government civil private or commercial settings.

A quadruplicate of 5 L liquid samples were prepared from VX GD and HD. A triplicate of each of four different sorbents in the amount of 200 mg was produced using the above disclosed method. The four different sorbents were zirconium hydroxide Zr OH porous zirconium hydroxide combined with ZnO porous zirconium hydroxide combined with TEDA and porous zirconium hydroxide combined with a mixture of ZnO and TEDA. Each of the prepared liquid samples of the toxic agents was applied onto the prepared sorbents. The disappearance of toxic agent in the sorbent was monitored using either 31P MAS NMR for VX GD or 13C MAS NMR for HD and the amount of agent at discrete time intervals were measured to plot a curve from which the half live was determined 

It can be shown from the data that VX reacts the fastest with un modified Zr OH while the modified Zr OH has a much longer detoxification time. For GD the modification of Zr OH leads to enhanced reactivity. Similarly to VX HD reacts the fastest with the un modified Zr OH .

Therefore Zr OH exhibits unprecedentedly fast detoxification of adsorbed VX outperforming even nTiOin this regard. Moreover the material possesses innate reactivity towards GD as well and the reactivity is further enhanced by a modification of Zr OH with ZnO and or TEDA. Although considerably slower Zr OH also affords reactivity for HD.

