---

title: Ion deflector for two-dimensional control of ion beam cross sectional spread
abstract: An ion deflector, for deflecting a beam of charged particles along an arc in a deflection plane, includes a pair of non-spherical deflection electrodes adapted for being charged with different voltages. The pair of deflection electrodes are configured to control, in both the deflection plane and in a direction perpendicular to the deflection plane, a cross sectional spread of charged particles in a deflected beam that exits the ion deflector. In some embodiments, a first electrode has a first height perpendicular to the deflection plane and a second electrode has a different second height.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08309936&OS=08309936&RS=08309936
owner: Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 08309936
owner_city: New York City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100219
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 156 309 filed Feb. 27 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This application also claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 234 888 filed Aug. 18 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This application further claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 241 492 filed Sep. 11 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. CHE 0520660 AST 0606960 and AST 0807438 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Many devices used in commerce such as mass spectrometers for material analysis and biotechnology analysis involve ion beams. When working with ion beams in high vacuum setups several standard ion optical elements are widely used to direct store and focus ion beams. Among the standard ion optical elements are quadrupole deflectors cylindrical deflectors and spherical deflectors. These deflectors among other ion optical elements are described in the book Third Edition John H. Moore Christopher C. Davis and Michael A. Coplan Perseus Books Cambridge Mass. 2003 ISBN 0 201 13187 0.

Cylindrical deflectors are easily built and operated. They use electrodes that consist of two curved metallic plates that form corresponding portions of concentric cylinders and are planted inside a vacuum chamber. A positive voltage V is applied to one of the plates and the same voltage with opposite sign V is applied to the other plate. A charged atom or molecule of the right kinetic energy entering the space between the plates and parallel to the plates at an entry port or aperture will follow the curvature of the plates and thus be guided along a defined beam arc to exit at an arbitrary deflection angle from its direction at the entry port. Other charged or uncharged atoms or molecules will not follow the defined arc and will be lost from the beam that exits the deflector at an exit port or aperture. The properties of the cylindrical deflector are such that it will focus an incoming parallel ion beam in the plane of the deflection while it does not have any influence on the momentum of the ions in the direction perpendicular to that plane. That means an incoming beam with a round cross section a round beam will leave the deflector as a deflected beam with an oval cross section an oval beam . In order to rectify the deformation of the cross section of the ion beam asymmetrical lenses or other ion optical elements are used in concert with the cylindrical deflector.

A quadrupole deflector called simply a quadrupole consists of four parallel rods forming two pairs of opposing rods perpendicular to the plane of deflection. By applying appropriate voltages to these pairs of opposing rods an incoming ion beam can be deflected by an arbitrary angle. Like the cylindrical deflector a quadrupole focuses in the plane of deflection while it leaves the beam unfocused in the perpendicular direction. Hence usually quadrupoles are also used with corrective electrodes or ion lenses along with additional power supplies at the entrance and exit to correct for the distortion of the transmitted beam cross section shape. Much higher voltages e.g. 9800 volts are required in quadrupoles compared to cylindrical deflectors e.g. 2300 volts to deflect the same ion beam e.g. having an energy of 10 thousand electron Volts keV by an angle of 90 degrees.

Spherical deflectors are more complicated to build. They use electrodes that consist of portions of two nested spheres with different radii. Again two voltages of opposite sign are applied and ions can be guided between the electrodes. Unlike the cylindrical deflector or the quadrupole a spherical deflector creates a focus in both directions. That means a beam entering the structure with a round cross section will retain a round cross section upon exiting the deflector.

Therefore there is a need for an ion beam deflector that controls cross section shape of an ion beam in both directions without the structural complexity of nested spherical electrodes in a spherical deflector and without the high voltages required in a quadrupole or correction electrodes along with additional power supplies at the entrance and exit required in quadrupole and conventional cylindrical deflectors.

According to a first set of embodiments an ion deflector for deflecting a beam of charged particles along an arc in a deflection plane includes a pair of non spherical deflection electrodes adapted for being charged with different voltages. The pair of deflection electrodes are configured to control in both the deflection plane and in a direction perpendicular to the deflection plane a cross sectional spread of charged particles in a deflected beam that exits the ion deflector.

According to another set of embodiments an apparatus includes a means for charging a pair of non spherical deflection electrodes with different voltages to deflect along an arc in a deflection plane an incident beam of charged particles that enters the apparatus. The apparatus also includes a means for controlling in both the deflection plane and in a direction perpendicular to the deflection plane a cross sectional spread of charged particles in a deflected beam that exits the apparatus based on the different voltages and the incident beam that enters the apparatus.

According to another set of embodiments an apparatus includes a vacuum chamber portion a first cylindrical plate and a second cylindrical plate. The first cylindrical plate has a first radius of curvature in a deflection plane and a first height perpendicular to the deflection plane. The second cylindrical plate has a different second radius of curvature in the deflection plane and a different second height perpendicular to the deflection plane. The first cylindrical plate is disposed inside the vacuum chamber portion and the second cylindrical plate is disposed inside the vacuum chamber portion and displaced from the first cylindrical plate in the deflection plane. The first cylindrical plate and second cylindrical plate are configured to hold different voltages sufficient to deflect an ion beam in the deflection plane

According to another set of embodiments a method of operating an apparatus includes applying different voltages to a first cylindrical plate and a second cylindrical plate of the apparatus. The apparatus includes a vacuum chamber portion the first cylindrical plate and the second cylindrical plate. The first cylindrical plate has a first radius of curvature in a deflection plane and a first height. The second cylindrical plate has a different second radius of curvature in the deflection plane and a different second height. The first cylindrical plate is disposed inside the vacuum chamber portion and the second cylindrical plate is disposed inside the vacuum chamber portion and displaced from the first cylindrical plate in the deflection plane. The different voltages applied to the cylindrical plates are sufficient to deflect an ion beam in the deflection plane and to focus the ion beam both in the deflection plane and in a plane perpendicular to the deflection plane after the ion beam is deflected.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

An apparatus and method for ion beam deflection is disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although several embodiments of the invention are described in the context of electrodes that are featureless circular cylindrical plates with a constant radius of curvature along the plate and a shorter inner plate height for deflections of 90 degrees it is explicitly contemplated that in other embodiments one or more electrodes may have a varying radius of curvature or the outer electrode may be shorter than the inner electrode or other features may be introduced on one or more electrodes such as a exit port for uncharged atoms or molecules or an along path variation in a difference between heights of inner and outer electrodes or one or more angled extensions added to either or both electrodes for further control of both dimensions of a beam s cross sectional shape for deflections of the same 90 degree angle or for larger or smaller angles or any combination thereof.

The illustrated ion deflector includes two electrodes an inner electrode and an approximately parallel outer electrode that intersect the horizontal plane in two arcs depicted in . The arc in the horizontal plane approximately midway between the two electrodes followed by an ion beam to be deflected is called herein a beam arc . The inner electrode is charged to attract ions in an ion beam to be deflected and the outer electrode is charged to repel those ions. An ion beam e.g. parallel beam of charged atoms or molecules enters the ion deflector between the inner electrode and outer electrode at an angle that is approximately parallel to the tangents to the electrodes at the point of entry. An ion beam of a certain kinetic energy approximately follows the curvature of the parallel inner electrode and outer electrode to remain between them on beam arc and exit the ion deflector as a deflected ion beam e.g. focused beam . The ions in the focused beam converge in the horizontal plane to a focal point and diverge in the horizontal plane beyond that focal point . Although the focal point is shown inside the ion deflector for purposes of illustration in various other embodiments the focal point is at an exit point of the ion deflector or outside the ion deflector . Like an optical lens the ion deflector is symmetric in that an ion beam can enter at either end of the beam arc and exit the other end. The position of the focal point is reflected about the midpoint of the beam arc for a parallel beam entering at the opposite end of ion deflector compared to the entry of parallel beam .

In some embodiments the incident ion beam e.g. focused beam entering the ion deflector is focused at the focal point of the ion deflector e.g. focal point and leaves the ion deflector as a parallel beam e.g. parallel beam . This behavior is also analogous to an optical lens.

In conventional cylindrical deflectors the inner electrode and the outer electrode are curved plates that have the same height not shown in the vertical direction perpendicular to the plane of deflection and are aligned vertically. Furthermore in conventional cylindrical deflectors each of the inner electrode and the outer electrode are circular arcs with a constant radius of curvature and both arcs share the same center are concentric in the plane of deflection .

As described above a disadvantage of conventional cylindrical deflectors is that they do not provide control over the vertical spread of the ion beam i.e. the spread of the ion beam cross section in a direction perpendicular to the plane of deflection . This is illustrated in and .

When a conventional cylindrical ion deflector is used on a parallel beam with a circular cross section as shown in the beam is focused in the horizontal plane only and not in the vertical. Beyond the focal point the horizontal spread increases but the vertical spread remains unchanged. The cross section uncontrollably becomes oval as depicted in . Thus the beam fails to retain its cross sectional shape in a conventional cylindrical deflector.

In an example simulated embodiment of a conventional cylindrical deflector the input beam is a parallel beam of ions with a vertical spread of 5 millimeters mm 1 mm 10meters and a horizontal spread of 5 mm. The simulations were for a beam of hydrogen ions with an extra electron designated H at an energy of 10 thousand electron Volts kilo electron Volts keV 1 keV 10electron Volts . So the mass of each ion is that of hydrogen plus a second electron minus the electron affinity about 1.67 10grams. The charge is 1e where e is the fundamental charge. The same deflection is effected in any input ion beam that had been accelerated to 10 keV. The outer surface of the inner plate has a constant radius of curvature of 120 mm and the inner surface of the outer plate has a constant radius of curvature of 150 mm. The inner plate is charged to 2300 volts V and the outer plate is charged to 2300 V. Both are the same height so that the applied electric field is purely horizontal. The horizontal spread is focused and the beam emerges from the focal point with an expanding horizontal spread indicated by a horizontal angular range called a full azimuth range of 2.5 degrees. However the vertical spread is unfocused and is spreading in a ballistic fashion unaffected by the deflector. In the simulated beam the vertical ballistic spread is essentially constant with a vertical angular range called a full elevation range of only 0.1 degrees. As a result there is controlled spreading in the horizontal and no controlled spreading in the vertical leading to the oval output beam .

For many applications it is desirable to retain the cross sectional shape of an ion beam or at least control the vertical spread as well as controlling the horizontal spread.

According to various embodiments of the invention one or more non spherical electrodes are used in an ion deflector to provide control of vertical spread. For example in various embodiments an angled extension is added above or below or both to one or more of the charged electrodes to inflict a vertical component to the electric field at the location of at least one or more portions of the beam arc. In one set of embodiments cylindrical plates of different heights are used for the inner and outer electrodes. In various embodiments of this set the cylindrical plates are corresponding portions of two cylinders that are circular with constant radius of curvature or not and are concentric or not in any combination. In some embodiments each plate is constant in height perpendicular to the plane of deflection throughout the ion deflector while in other embodiments the height varies with position in the ion deflector.

In a particular embodiment that was both simulated and used experimentally portions of concentric circular cylinder plates are used as electrodes in which the height of the outer plate is greater than a height of the inner plate and each plate maintains a constant height within the ion deflector. Such embodiments are called double focusing cylindrical deflectors.

In a particular embodiment the height of the inner plate is 2 inches and the height of the outer plate is about 4 inches. In this embodiment the double focusing deflector is made of stainless steel and Peek screws and embedded in stainless steel vacuum tubes. Peek is a plastic with good vacuum properties which is commercially available. None of these materials is hazardous. Also in this embodiment the inner radius of curvature is about 5.5 inches and the outer radius of curvature is about 7 inches so that the distance between the plates is about 1.5 inches. The vacuum tubes represent a portion of a vacuum chamber that is constructed by bolting several vacuum chamber portions together until no open ends remain as is well known in the art.

In the illustrated embodiment in the plane of deflection the electrical fields exert the same force on the ions as in the ordinary cylindrical deflector. However in the vertical direction perpendicular to that plane the depicted structure has focusing properties due to the inhomogeneity of the electric fields caused by the height difference of the plates and as shown in more detail below with reference to . Hence the double focusing cylindrical deflector can be used to replace a spherical deflector and at the same time the double focusing cylindrical deflector is much easier and more cost effective to manufacture and install. For example the cost for the double focusing cylindrical deflector without vacuum chamber which costs around 800 is about 300 for material and less than one man workday in a mechanical shop. This is significantly less expensive than both the estimated cost 15 000 to construct a spherical deflector and the cost 10 000 to obtain a quadrupole with corrective components to perform the same function.

Depicted relative to the simulation coordinate system is an example beam an example inner plate and an example outer plate . The midpoint of the beam in the vertical direction is at Y 0.

The following theoretical considerations are provided to help explain certain embodiments. However embodiments are not limited by the completeness or accuracy of these theoretical considerations.

The potential difference that is necessary to guide an ion with energy Ubeam on a center radius designated R e.g. along ion beam arc between the cylindrical plates can be calculated by equating the electrostatic force and the centrifugal force as given by Equation 1. 0 1 where E is the electric field strength in volts per meter v is the velocity of the particle in meters per second m the mass of the particle and q is the electrical charge of the particle. R is the center radius in meters. The kinetic energy Ubeam of the particle is defined by Equation 2. beam 2 2 Substituting Equation 2 into Equation 1 and expressing energy of Ubeam in electron volts yields Equation 3. 2 beam 0 3 For the simulated negative ion beams of 10 keV energy and for R 159 mm the computed field strength is about 125.8 kV m resulting in an electrical potential voltage difference of about 4780 V between the two cylindrical plates which are about 38 mm apart. In reality the incoming particles experience a smooth transition from an infinite radius to R and back upon entrance and exit of the deflector. Depending on the aperture design the potential values can vary slightly as shown below. In the simulated embodiments shown below electrical potentials voltages of about 2420 V were applied to the inner and outer plates respectively giving a potential voltage difference between the plates of 4840 V. The face plates are at ground electrical potential 0 .

In the deflection plane the ion beam experiences a focusing force that results in a narrow beam waist called a focus point hereinafter after a deflection angle of about 65 degrees. For an ideal cylindrical analyzer one would expect the focus to occur after about 63.5 degrees since re focusing of a spot sized incoming beam occurs at a deflection angle given by 2 127 degrees. The discrepancy in focus location is expected to be due to geometry details such as the size and shape of the apertures and the precision of the plate heights and curvatures.

In some embodiments separate control of horizontal and vertical focus is provided by varying the ratio of electrode heights of two cylindrical plate electrodes.

The inner plate and outer plate are concentric cylindrical plates. The radius of curvature for the inner plate is depicted as R and is equal to 143.5 mm in this set of embodiments. The radius of curvature for the outer plate is depicted as R and is equal to 184 mm in this set of embodiments. The height of the inner electrode was adjusted for different embodiments of this set while the outer electrode was held fixed at a constant height of 101 mm. These electrodes are placed within a tee shaped vacuum tube constructed of cylinders with horizontal axes which are electrically grounded. The vacuum chamber cylinders have an inner diameter D of 150 mm. When placed within the vacuum tubes the mid point between the plates was offset radially inwards by 1.5 mm from the Z coordinate of the mid point of the entrance face plate and the X coordinate of the midpoint of the exit faceplate . The ends of the electrode plates are 5.5 mm from the inner face of the entrance and exit face plates as depicted by gaps to electrically isolate the plates and .

Beam trajectories and cross sectional shapes were modeled using SIMION software from SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT SERVICES of Ringoes N.J. SIMION is a software package primarily used to calculate electric fields and the trajectories of charged particles in those fields when given a configuration of electrodes with voltages and particle initial conditions including optional radio frequency quasistatic voltages and magnetic field and with collision effects. In this SIMION provides extensive supporting functionality in geometry definition user programming data recording and visualization. It is an affordable but versatile platform widely used for over 25 years to simulate lens mass spectrometry and other types of particle optics systems.

To allow SIMION to use integer plate heights for computational efficiency and stability and still resolve focus points to sufficient accuracy for purposes of this demonstration the 101 mm height of outer plate was converted to 384 arbitrary height units. The simulated particle beam consists of H ions with a charge of e a mass of 1.008 amu and energy of 10 keV. In the deflection plane an ion beam includes a line of 21 ions equally spaced between Z coordinates of 80 mm to 90 mm axis and centered on the midpoint of the entrance aperture which lies at Y coordinate of 0 mm and Z coordinate of 85 mm. In the perpendicular plane an ion beam also includes a line of 21 ions equally spaced between Y coordinates of 5 mm to 5 mm again centered on the midpoint of the entrance aperture . The central ray is defined as the ion trajectory starting on the horizontal and vertical midpoints of the entrance aperture. The initial velocity vector for all ions was parallel to the X axis.

Symmetric voltages were determined to deflect the central ion trajectory by 90 from where it entered the deflector. A voltage of V was applied to the inner plate and of V to the outer plate . To evaluate if the beam turned 90 the entrance and exit locations on the workspace were observed if a particle entered the workspace at a Z coordinate of 85 mm after a 90 turn it should exit the workspace at an X coordinate of 85 mm.

The appropriate deflection voltages versus plate height ratio are listed in Table 1 below. Simulation results depicted in Table 1 are based on rectangular entrance and exit apertures each of 13 mm in the deflection plane and 34 mm in a perpendicular plane. It is found that by changing the relative heights of the two plates the distances between the positions of the deflection and perpendicular focus points can be controlled. The plate ratio is given by h h where his height of the inner plate in arbitrary units and his the height of the outer plate in arbitrary units to express the height ratio as a ratio of whole numbers. The aspect ratio of the beam cross sections also vary with height ratio. The aspect ratio height width of the cross section of the input beam entering entrance aperture was 1 in these simulations. The output cross section height and width of the output ion beam were measured about 400 mm beyond the exit aperture e.g. at a Z coordinate about 650 mm .

The focus point in the deflection plane decreases its Z coordinate axis with increasing inner plate height axis . Conversely the focus point in the perpendicular plane increases its Z coordinate with increasing inner plate height. The span of plate ratios yielding substantively the same results is due to the resolution of the simulation. For some different values of the ratio the inner plate height column in Table 1 repeats and other variables in the table also remain the same. This repetition occurs even though the plate ratio is different and the height of the inner plate in the geometry code of the simulation has been adjusted accordingly. The data reveals that this simulation was able to resolve differences of only 0.5 mm. Due to mirroring in the vertical direction along Y axis plate heights were only able to be resolved to within about 1 mm. However even at 1 mm resolution the effects of plate height ratio on focus point position can be demonstrated. Greater resolution can be simulated by modeling with more powerful computational resources.

As shown in Table 1 and the deflection plane and perpendicular plane focus points lie closest together for plate ratios ranging from about 166 384 to about 169 384. The simulations imply that the focus points would merge somewhere between a ratio of 165 384 and a ratio of 166 384 where 384 corresponds to 101 mm. It appears that this merging would occur at a location just inside the exit aperture which is located at a Z coordinate of 255 mm. Table 1 shows that for the 166 384 plate height ratio the deflection plane focus point and perpendicular plane focus point are only 2.6 mm apart occurring at a position just inside of the exit aperture

The aspect ratio of the beam cross sections also vary with height ratio. The 166 384 to 169 384 ratios that place the focus points closest together also maintain the beam width and height keeping them nearly the same as each other resulting in an aspect ratio of about 1.06 as listed in Table 1.

A spherical deflector was also simulated using SIMION for comparison. The concentric spherical electrodes were given the same curvature radii as the cylindrical electrodes. The focus point locations and aspect ratios for the 166 384 height ratio cylindrical deflector and a spherical deflector not shown were similar.

Another way in which to evaluate the ability of the cylindrical deflector to replace a spherical deflector is to look at the potentials of the two deflectors in comparison to each other. Each deflector s electrode plates were set at voltages of 2485.28 V taken from the optimal model voltages for the embodiment described in Table I above.

These figures demonstrate that the cylindrical plates of different heights create electric fields near the beam similar to those of a standard spherical deflector with similar focusing properties in both the deflection plane and the perpendicular plane.

In some embodiments additional control of horizontal and vertical focus is provided by varying the size or shape or both of apertures in face plates.

Simulations were performed to show how the focus point locations are dependent on aperture size. Three aperture sizes were simulated comparing the originally designed rectangular aperture 13 mm 34 mm in Table 1 to a small square 13 mm 13 mm aperture in Table 2 and to a large square 34 mm 34 mm aperture in Table 3.

Table 2 shows that for plate height ratios between 153 384 and 157 384 the focus positions for the small square aperture are the closest together at 3.4 mm apart. This occurs just inside the exit aperture. At these plate ratios the aspect ratio for the beam is 0.91. The data reveals that the focus points would merge to the same Z coordinate somewhere between a height ratio of 157 384 and a height ratio of 158 384 again just inside the exit aperture.

Table 3 shows that for plate height ratios between 162 384 and 165 384 the focus point locations for the large square aperture are the closest together at 4.6 mm apart. These focus points occur on either side of the exit aperture. At these plate ratios the aspect ratio is 0.87. The data reveals that the focus points would merge somewhere between a height ratio of 165 384 and a height ratio of 166 384 arguably at a position close to the exit aperture.

Further simulations were performed to determine effects of a shape of the aperture. Apertures of a constructed device in some embodiments have rounded corners quarter circles with radii of 6.5 mm . In contrast the previously simulated apertures for which results are presented in Tables 1 through 3 above have right angle corners. As seen in Table 4 for rounded corners apertures the 166 384 to 169 384 plate ratios still retain the smallest focus point location difference and best final aspect ratio. The rounded corners apertures did shift the difference in focus point locations slightly compared to the rectangular aperture of the same size from about 2.6 mm to about 3.8 mm a change of only about 1.2 mm. The final aspect ratio for the rounded aperture remained the same as the rectangular aperture at about 1.06.

What is shown from the above tables is that for each embodiment with different aperture size there is a plate ratio that will produce a position where both the deflection plane focus point and the vertical plane focus point coincide. For the resolution achieved in this simulation it is estimated that the 34 mm 13 mm aperture best focuses the ion beam in both the deflection plane and the vertical plane at nearly the same location while maintaining the best beam aspect ratio.

In some embodiments additional control of horizontal and vertical focus is provided by varying the relative positions of the cylindrical plates and the apertures in the face plates.

The midpoints between the electrode plates used in the above set of embodiments were not centered on the mid point of the entrance and exit apertures. A new simulation was performed that positioned the electrodes for another set of embodiments so that the midpoints between the electrodes were centered on the aperture mid points. A distance of 40 mm was maintained between the cylindrical electrode plates. The new radii were R 145 mm and R 185 mm. The data gathered from these simulations are found in Table 5.

The Table 5 results reveal that the deflection and perpendicular plane focus points occur closest together for plate height ratios ranging from 170 384 0.4427 to 173 384 0.4505 . This is shifted from the range 166 384 0.4323 to 169 384 0.4401 found for the original plate configuration Table 1 . The new data now imply that the focus points would merge at a plate height ratio between 173 384 and 174 384 0.4531 still occurring just inside the exit aperture. Table 5 shows that for the 173 384 plate height ratio the deflection and perpendicular focus points are 5.1 mm apart occurring at a position just inside of the exit aperture.

The aspect ratio of the beam has also shifted slightly. The plate height ratios of 170 384 to 173 384 for near coincident focus points give an aspect ratio of 0.999. This is an improvement over the aspect ratio of 1.06 found for the height ratio for near coincident focus points of Table 1.

Although the above discussion shows attempts to identify height ratios to provide near coincident focus points in other embodiments separated focus points are desirable and achieved with different height ratios such as one or more height ratios listed in one or more Tables 1 to 5.

In some embodiments separate control of horizontal and vertical focus is provided by applying asymmetric voltages on the two cylindrical electrodes.

This feature is demonstrated using simulations based on the following configurations of the cylindrical and face plates in which the midpoints between the plates are centered on the apertures in the face plates. The outer radius of the inner electrode R e.g. radius is fixed at 145 mm. The inner radius of the outer electrode R e.g. radius is fixed at 185 mm. The height of the outer electrode e.g. outer plate is constant at 101 mm while the height of the inner electrode e.g. inner plate assumes values of 44 45 46 and 47 mm in various simulated embodiments.

The simulated deflector aperture openings are rectangular 34 mm high Y dimension by 13 mm wide in the Z dimension at the entrance and in the X dimension at the exit as shown in . The center of the entrance aperture is at a Z coordinate of 85 mm at the entrance aperture and at an X coordinate of 85 mm at the exit aperture. In these simulations the aperture edges are not rounded as they are in a physical embodiment. As shown above this difference does not cause a large change in the results. The distance in the X Z plane between the ends of the electrode plates and the entrance and exit apertures shown as gap in is 5.5 mm. The vacuum chamber portion which surrounds the electrodes is tee shaped in the X Z plane made of electrically grounded metal cylinders shown in with an inner diameter D of 150 mm e.g. D shown in the X Z plane in . The ion beam is the same as used in previous simulations described above.

For each plate height ratio asymmetric voltages V V that deflect the central ion trajectory by exactly 90 degrees are determined. Here V is the inner plate voltage and V the outer plate voltage. The central ion starts at Y 0 mm and Z 85 mm and flies along in the negative X direction at the entrance aperture. When the central ion exits the exit aperture at Y 0 mm and X 85 mm the ion is flying in the positive Z direction and the ion has made a 90 degree turn.

Using the 90 degree deflection voltages determined in this way the positions of the deflection plane and perpendicular plane focus points are determined by using particles flown in the horizontal and vertical planes respectively. The ions in both the deflection plane and the perpendicular plane are simulated at the same time to determine the aspect ratio of the beam cross section. The cross section aspect ratio is defined as the ratio of the distance across all ions in the deflection plane width divided by the distance across all ions in the perpendicular plane height . This ratio is determined where the ions reach the end of the workbench at Z 600 mm.

The simulation results are shown for inner plate heights of 44 mm 45 mm 46 mm and 47 mm in Table 6 Table 7 Table 8 and Table 9 respectively. These correspond to plate height ratios of 44 101 0.4356 45 101 0.4455 46 101 0.4554 and 47 101 0.4653 respectively near the preferred height ratios determined above for coincident focus points.

Tables 6 to 9 show that asymmetric pairs of voltages can be determined that produce focus points lying close together. For a plate height ratio of 44 101 Table 6 it is found that the focus points should be substantively coincident also called co spatial for V V value pairs between 2320 V 2551.49 V and 2325 V 2548.44 V . For a height ratio of 45 101 Table 7 the focus points are substantively coincident between 2410 V 2493.22V and 2412.5 V 2491.69V . For a height ratio of 46 101 Table 8 the focus points are substantively coincident between 2535 V 2413.93 V and 2540 V 2410.87 V . Lastly for a height ratio 47 101 ratio Table 9 the focus points are substantively coincident somewhere between 2630 V 2352.79 V and 2632.5 V 2351.26 V .

In Tables 6 to 9 it is further evident that the voltage value V which causes the focus points to lie closest together increases with the height of the inner plate. The corresponding voltage for V decreases. Conversely when the inner plate height is reduced the V value which brings the focus points to occur closest together decreases whereas the appropriate V value increases.

These embodiments with asymmetric voltages have also been compared to the embodiments with symmetric voltages. In an ideal case the deflection should depend only on the electric field E between the plates. To first order E V V d where d is the distance between the plates. In Table 10 are given the approximate values of V V V found to deflect the beam 90 degrees for a range of height ratios for both the symmetric and asymmetric cases. Also listed are the respective aspect ratios of the beam cross section at Z 600 mm. The values of the symmetric and asymmetric voltages to deflect the beam 90 degrees are retrieved from Tables 6 to 9. The value of the symmetric voltage difference is double of this absolute value. The approximate value of the asymmetric voltage difference in Table 10 is roughly the average difference of the two voltage pairs bracketing a focus point separation of 0 mm. The beam cross section aspect ratio for the asymmetric case is roughly the average of the corresponding aspect ratios for these same two pairs of voltages bracketing the focus point separation of 0 mm.

Table 10 shows that the voltage differences for the asymmetric voltage embodiments are different from those for symmetric voltage embodiments. This can be explained by the re referencing of the kinetic energy that the ions experience when they enter the deflector. Since the voltages applied to the plates are no longer centered around zero the ions will be decelerated upon entrance and accelerated upon exit.

For example for an experimental embodiment described in the next section a plate height ratio is 45 101 with an inner plate radius R e.g. radius of 140 mm and outer plate radius R e.g. radius of 178 mm different from the simulations of Table 10 the asymmetric voltages are 3000V on the outer electrode and 1620 on the inner electrode to obtain a 90 degree deflection. In this embodiment the incoming negatively charged ions loose 3000 1620 V 725 V of kinetic energy tangential to their flight path after passing the grounded entrance aperture. The remaining kinetic energy amounts to 9275 eV and according to Eq. 3 a voltage difference of 4660 eV is expected. The voltage needed to deflect the beam by 90 degrees in the simulation is somewhat lower. This is to be contrasted to the case of symmetric voltage embodiments where the voltages were slightly higher than predicted by Eq. 3.

Table 10 also shows that the symmetric voltage difference for 90 degree deflection and near coincident focus points decreases with increasing inner plate height. Conversely the asymmetric voltage difference increases with increasing inner plate height.

Table 10 also shows that for the 90 degree deflection voltage in the symmetric case the beam cross section aspect ratio is a function of the plate height ratio. The aspect ratio increases with increasing plate height ratio. This is to be contrasted with the asymmetric case for which an aspect ratio approaching 1 is achievable for all plate height ratios tested. These results suggest an aspect ratio near 1 is possible for all plate height ratios in asymmetric voltage embodiments. Clearly the asymmetric embodiments provide greater flexibility to control the deflected ion beam properties than do the symmetric embodiments. Thus asymmetric voltages can be used to achieve co spatial focus points in both the deflection X Z plane and perpendicular Y Z plane for a wide variety of impinging ion beams when there is a fixed height ratio e.g. in a single physical embodiment.

Measurements of ion beam deflection were performed with an experimental physical embodiment. In principle it is possible to shift the focus in the deflection plane as well as orthogonal to it by changing the electrode plate height ratio and the geometry of the entrance and exit electrodes. However practical limitations for the size of the deflector the opening apertures for the ion beam and the vacuum chamber housing have to be taken into account. Moreover the optical properties can be adjusted in a much more flexible fashion when asymmetric voltages are used.

In a first experimental embodiment an ion beam deflector comprises a cylindrical deflector with different plate heights 45 mm height for the inner electrode and 101 mm height for the outer electrode . The deflector was designed to fit into a standard DN160 Conflat vacuum chamber. An inner plate radius R e.g. radius of 140 mm and outer plate radius R e.g. radius of 178 mm were used as in a conventional cylindrical deflector. The smaller plate height for the inner electrode has three immediately observable effects on the ion trajectories. 1 The net field strength between the plates is weakened and hence slightly higher voltages 2470 V as compared to 2420 V from Eq. 3 are needed to guide the ion beam. 2 The focus point in the dispersion plane occurs at a larger Z coordinate value it is shifted to about 5 mm before the exit face plate . 3 In the Y dimension the ion beam is no longer unaffected instead a narrow beam waist focus point forms in the vertical plane about 3 mm after the exit aperture e.g. . An incoming circular beam of 6 mm diameter at the entrance aperture e.g. is compressed to about 0.6 mm extent in the X dimension and about 0.4 mm extent in the Y dimension at the position of the exit aperture e.g. .

Following the above detailed simulations and experimental embodiment a second experimental embodiment of the deflector was built with a plate height ratio of 101 mm to 45 mm. and are drawings that illustrate a constructed ion deflector according to the second experimental embodiment. shows the face plates of diameter equal to 150 mm and inner cylindrical plate that is 45 mm high and outer cylindrical plate that is 101 mm high. The inner plate has a radius of curvature R of 140 mm and the outer plate has a radius of curvature R of 178 mm. The face plates each include two plungers and two set screws as described below. Each face plate includes an aperture that is 35 mm high and 12.7 mm wide with rounded corners. shows the face plates positioned on a conflate DN 160 Tee vacuum tube. Each end of cylindrical plates and are attached to a face plate by a pair of PEEK screws as described below.

The cylindrical plates and were manually rolled from flat stainless steel sheet metal. They were held by two stainless face plates with rounded rectangular apertures . The mechanical connection between the face plates and the cylindrical plates and was provided by small aluminum blocks that were fixed to the face plates with PEEK screws and ceramic tubes for electrical isolation. The face plates were clamped into the vacuum tube utilizing set screws and nose plungers for ease of adjustment. The voltages are fed into the vacuum tube by SHV 5 feed through leads welded into the vacuum chamber walls and connected to the backsides of an opposing pair of the aluminum connector blocks. All materials were chosen to be ultra high vacuum compatible. Without special precautions the ion deflector can be operated with voltages up to about 5500 V allowing for the deflection of ion beams with energies of about 20 keV. Extending this range to higher energies would be possible with simple modifications easily determined by those of ordinary skill in the art.

In order to verify the SIMION simulations ion beam cross sections were measured for an input beam comprising a collimated H ion beam at 10 keV. The ion beam was created in a duoplasmatron ion source and shaped by two 5 mm circular apertures approximately 5 m apart. The result is a uniformly filled circular ion beam of 5 mm diameter with negligible divergence about 1 milliradian mrad 1 mrad 10radians .

An input ion beam was sent through the two 5 mm apertures before injection into the deflector producing a collimated beam with a uniformly filled circular cross section image . The voltages for the outer inner cylindrical plates are given in the insets and Table 11. The MCP imaging detector was located about 44 mm beyond the deflector exit aperture. The ion beam cross sections in the lowest row images to may be cropped at the sides due to a damaged region of the detector.

As shown in the effect that asymmetric voltages have on the position of the focus points is clearly visible as the beam shape measured in the deflection plane varies from circular patterns to horizontally and vertically oblong shapes. For most of the images the beam profile displays a diagonal distortion. This effect is attributed to the imperfect alignment of the deflector inside the vacuum chamber. The deflector was constructed for simplicity rather than precision. Test measurements after dismantling and assembling the deflector several times an operation that can be completed within 30 minutes revealed that the distance between the electrodes can vary by up to 2 mm despite proper placement of the face plates. This lack of precision is attributed to the use of flexible sheet metal and PEEK screws and can be easily improved for applications demanding higher accuracy

The ability to manipulate the beam profile by applying asymmetric potentials can be a distinct advantage when working with ion beams that are not necessarily perfectly circular. In some embodiments the deflector with asymmetric heights and voltages not only serves to bend the beam at a right angle it also acts as an ion optical element controlling the beam shape for particular applications.

Some embodiments of an electrostatic double focusing 90 degree deflector for fast ion beams have been described consisting of concentric cylindrical plates. In contrast to standard cylindrical deflectors these embodiments allow for focusing of an incoming parallel beam in the plane of deflection as well as in the orthogonal direction. The optical properties of these embodiments resemble those of a spherical capacitor deflector yet these embodiments are much easier and more cost effective to manufacture. Furthermore the electric potentials needed for beam deflection are much lower than for a quadrupole deflector at the same beam energy. Alterations to work with higher beam energies and to minimize aberrations and to achieve particular beam shape effects and differing deflection angles are anticipated.

While embodiments have been described in connection with a number of implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

