---

title: Method and apparatus for determining search results based on filtered information
abstract: An approach is provided for determining results based on filtered information. A context request is detected from one or more programs. Another program determines to filter the content request, the one or more programs, or a combination thereof. One or more results of the content request are determined based, at least in part, on the filtered content request, the filtered one or more programs, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460213&OS=09460213&RS=09460213
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09460213
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100924
---
Wireless e.g. cellular service providers for example continue to develop more enhanced network services and applications. Consequently manufacturers of mobile devices e.g. cellular phones are challenged to continually add greater functional capabilities in smaller form factors. Users additionally utilize these services and applications more and more to traverse content available over one or more networks e.g. via the Internet . However with the vast amount of content available over the Internet users can be drowned in irrelevant or unwanted information. Search engines and other services e.g. mapping services provide searching based on criteria however it is technically challenging for these services to provide relevant information to users without the user specifying the criteria.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for determine search results based on filtered content requests.

According to one embodiment a method comprises detecting a content request from one or more programs. The method also comprises determining at another program to filter the content request the one or more programs or a combination thereof. The method further comprises determining one or more results of the content request based at least in part on the filtered content request the filtered one or more programs or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to detect a content request from one or more programs. The apparatus is also caused to determine at another program to filter the content request the one or more programs or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to determine one or more results of the content request based at least in part on the filtered content request the filtered one or more programs or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to detect a content request from one or more programs. The apparatus is also caused to determine at another program to filter the content request the one or more programs or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to determine one or more results of the content request based at least in part on the filtered content request the filtered one or more programs or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for detecting a content request from one or more programs. The apparatus also comprises means for determining at another program to filter the content request the one or more programs or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for determining one or more results of the content request based at least in part on the filtered content request the filtered one or more programs or a combination thereof.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for determining search results based on filtered information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term information space or smart space refers to an aggregated information set from different sources. This multi sourcing is very flexible since it accounts and relies on the observation that the same piece of information and or related processes can come from different sources. For example the same information and or related processes e.g. contact information for a particular contact can appear in the same information space from multiple sources e.g. a locally stored contacts database a public directory a work contact database etc. . In one embodiment information within the information space or smart space is represented using Semantic Web standards such as Resource Description Framework RDF RDF Schema RDFS OWL Web Ontology Language FOAF Friend of a Friend ontology rule sets in RuleML Rule Markup Language etc. Furthermore as used herein RDF refers to a family of World Wide Web Consortium W3C specifications originally designed as a metadata data model. It has come to be used as a general method for conceptual description or modeling of information that is implemented in web resources using a variety of syntax formats. Although various embodiments are described with respect to information spaces and RDF it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other structures and conceptual description methods used to create models of information.

There has been development of distributed systems for managing information and related applications and or processes. By way of example such systems can be achieved through numerous individual and personal information spaces in which persons groups of persons etc. can place share interact and manipulate webs of information and or applications with their own locally agreed semantics without necessarily conforming to an unobtainable global whole. These information spaces often referred to as smart spaces are extensions of the Giant Global Graph in which one can apply semantics and reasoning at a local level. More specifically information spaces are working spaces embedded within distributed infrastructures that can span multiple computers information appliances sensors and the like. In some instances computing processes e.g. granular reflective processes associated with the information spaces may also be distributed over the infrastructures. However technical challenges arise in utilizing these distributed systems to provide customized results.

To address these problems a system of introduces the capability to determine content results based on filtered information. Filtered information can include one or more content requests and or programs. Determining these search results may be based upon an information space infrastructure. As such the information space infrastructure may be utilized to detect a content request from one or more programs. In certain embodiments a program e.g. a computer program or software program is a sequence of instructions written to perform one or more tasks for a computer or processor. Computers can execute the program instructions at one or more processors. Programs can include operating system instructions application specific instructions a combination thereof etc. In one embodiment operating system instructions are designed to operate computer hardware and can provide and or maintain one or more applications. In another embodiment application specific instructions are instructions that can be used to execute one or more applications. These applications can be used to facilitate a user to perform one or more specific tasks e.g. a word processing application can facilitate access to one or more documents a media application can facilitate creation and presentation of media content etc. .

Another program can determine to filter the content request one or more programs or a combination thereof based on one or more criteria. The one or more criteria can be based on a relevancy of the potential results to the user. For example it has been demonstrated that users value information and or content when it is recommended by someone the users know. Thus the system utilizing information space technology can detect whether any content has been produced by other people that the content requesting user knows or trusts and filter content requests and or content results based on the people that the user knows.

As previously described an information space comprises or consists of for instance several distributed devices that communicate information e.g. RDF graphs via a shared memory such as a Semantic Information Broker SIB . In one embodiment a device within an information space environment may store information locally in its own memory space or publish information to the semantic information broker. In the first case the device is responsible for any process needed for combination or extraction of information while in the second case the data manipulation processes can be conducted by the semantic information broker. By way of example the information stored within an information space may be organized as lists or sets of information that can include many data elements e.g. a contact list inventory of goods business directory etc. .

The basic concept of information space technology includes providing access to distributed information for various devices within the scope of the information space. In certain embodiments this access is provided in such a way that the distributed nature of the information is hidden from users. As a result the information space appears to a user as if all the accessed information is stored on the same device. The information space also enables a user to have control over information distribution by transferring information between devices that the user has access to. For example a user may want to transfer information among work devices home devices and portable devices. Technologies can enable a user of a mobile device to manipulate contexts such as data and information via the elements of one or more user interfaces of one or more user equipments.

In order to enable a user of an information space who connects to the information space via one or more user devices to distribute computations among one or more user devices or other devices with access to the information space each computation is deconstructed to its basic or primitive processes or computation closures. As used herein computation closures refer to relations and communications among various computations including passing arguments sharing process results flow of data and process results etc. Once a computation is divided into its primitive computation closures the processes within or represented by each closure may be executed in a distributed fashion and the processing results can be collected and aggregated into the result of the execution of the initial overall computation. In certain embodiments the processes can be executing programs.

As shown in the system comprises one or more user equipment sets having connectivity to a content platform via a communication network . The user equipment sets can comprise or consist of user equipments UEs . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UEs are any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In one embodiment the UEs are respectively equipped with one or more user interfaces UI . Each UI may comprise or consist of several UI elements not shown at any time depending on the service that is being used. UI elements may be icons representing user contexts such as information e.g. music information contact information video information etc. functions e.g. setup search etc. and or processes e.g. download play edit save etc. . Additionally each UI element may be bound to a context process by granular migration. In one embodiment granular migration enables processes to be implicitly or explicitly migrated between devices information spaces and other infrastructure. The process migration can be initiated for example by means of single cast e.g. to just another UE or multicast e.g. to multiple other UEs . Additionally process migration may be triggered via gesture recognition wherein the user preselects a particular set of UI elements and makes a gesture to simulate pouring the selected UE elements from one device to another. It is contemplated that any other gesture e.g. a sliding gesture movement towards another UE spinning rotating etc. may be used to indicate a request to migrate a process from one UE to another UE another component of the network or the like.

As shown in a user of UEs may own various pieces of information distributed over a set of information spaces . The user can access the information via the set of equipment consisting of UEs wherein each UE is equipped with one or more UIs . Furthermore each UE may have access to a set of processes that can be used to manipulate the information stored in information spaces and produce results requested by the user of the UE .

In one embodiment the content platform includes information about binding between the elements of each UI areas of rendered UIs and actual information processing through processes . The binding information enables a user of a UEs to for example visually assign particular tasks to other UEs owned by the same user. In one embodiment binding between the elements or regions of UIs and the actual computations or functions performed by processes is done through computation closures defined and stored by the content platform . As used herein computation closures identify relations and communications among various processes including passing arguments sharing process results flow of data and process results etc. The computation closures e.g. a granular reflective set of instructions data and or related execution context or state provide the capability of slicing of computations for processes for a user and transmitting the computation slices between UEs content platform and information spaces 

The content platform may use seamless information processing techniques in order to enhance the computation closures. Seamless information management is the enabling technology for reflective process or context migration. In one embodiment in addition to the migration of computations between devices virtual execution environments such as M3 may be dynamically bound. The application of seamless information processing techniques may allow dynamically balanced load between concurrent execution environments taking into account the user s current context.

In one embodiment the content platform can detect the use of a program executing on a UE of a UE set . The content platform can additionally detect a request for content from the program. One or more processes of the program can be broken down into closures as described above and further detailed in . Further one or more content requests of the closure e.g. a request for information about a certain location a search engine request etc. can be broken down into closures. These closures can then be filtered according to criteria be utilized in determining corresponding results for the content.

The content platform can determine context information about the UE and or a user of the UE to utilize in the filtering process. Context information can include a location a time an activity e.g. a calendar entry a social graph associated with the user combinations thereof etc. In certain embodiments a social graph is a data structure or a group of data structures e.g. list table etc. that stores connection and relationship information between users e.g. connections via accounts of users or members of a social networking service . For example groups e.g. family friends colleagues co workers acquaintances etc. may be depicted or described as associations within information stored about the user. Further social graphs can be extracted from social networking services and or generated by identifying and linking relationships based on contact information. As such the social graph can be determined according to various resources such as a contact list and or communication history associated with one or more of the UEs of the UE set collected from one or more social networking platforms or the like. Further the social graph can be tiered hierarchically and have levels of importance associated with one or more users in the social graph. For example a person in recent communication or on a favorites list may be associated with a first level direct contacts of the user may be associated with a second level secondary contacts e.g. friends of friends can be separated based on additional levels etc. If a person is not associated with the social graph the person can be associated with another category e.g. a rest of the world category.

Further relevancy information can be determined that is associated with the context information. The relevancy information can be associated with people according to the social graph e.g. based on a level closeness of the people a pertinence of a person in the social graph corresponding to a potential result e.g. whether a friend is a food critic or has critiqued multiple food places would be pertinent to food establishments but not necessarily opera ratings distance from a particular location e.g. a location of the user time accessibility e.g. if an establishment is not open during a particular set time frame it may not be relevant as a result because the user cannot utilize the establishment recentness of update of content combinations thereof etc. The content platform and or user preferences can set one or more points for one or more types of information. The relevancy information can be generated as a total score for each potential result based on the relevancy criteria. As such relevancy information and or context information may be utilized in filtering information utilized to retrieve search results as well as to filter content request results. Relevant information and or information from a person that is associated with the user can be more useful to the user because there is a built in relationship trust.

By way of example the UEs of sets the content platform and the information space sets communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The content platform receives a content request associated with a user of a first UE via for example a touch enabled input a keypad etc. The process identification module analyses the received input and determines the processes that are bound to one or more UI elements identified the content request. The content platform may include a predefined library of binding relations between various UI elements with lists of processes for example a search criteria entry UI element can be associated with a search engine process a location entry UI element can be associated with a mapping process etc. . The binding library may be assembled by software developers throughout the development phase for each UE type using the binding module and stored in the memory . Once the processes bound to the selected UI components are identified the context determination module determines a context including a user context e.g. the state of the first UE and UI an execution context e.g. the memory states processors states and related information of device when executing a particular application or service or a combination thereof for the identified processes. The determined context can be used during the reconstruction process at a second UE the first UE or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the closure definition module determines computation closures e.g. a granular reflective set of instructions data and or related execution context or state for processes related to the selected UI elements and stores the closures in the memory . The stored closures may be used for slicing computations into smaller independent processes to be executed by various available UEs using the data that may be stored on the distributed information spaces 

In another embodiment the control logic utilizes the identified processes determined context and defined closures to produce one or more serialized granular computation elements.

In one embodiment the context serialization may be generated and stored using RDF format. As previously mentioned RDF is a family of World Wide Web Consortium specifications originally designed as a metadata data model. It has come to be used as a general method for conceptual description or modeling of information that is implemented in web resources using a variety of syntax formats. The underlying structure of any expression in RDF is a collection of triples each consisting of three disjoint sets of nodes including a subject a predicate and an object. A subject is an RDF URI reference U or a Blank Node B a predicate is an RDF URI reference U and an object is an RDF URI reference U a literal L or a Blank Node B . A set of such triples is called an RDF graph. Table 1 shows an example RDF graph structure.

It is noted that the UI element or UI regions utilized by the user can be granularly fractioned. The granularity may be achieved by the basic format of operation e.g. RDF within the specific computing environment. Furthermore the reflectivity of processes i.e. the capability of processes to provide a representation of their own behavior to be used for inspection and or adaptation may be achieved by encoding the behavior of the computation in RDF format. Additionally the context may be assumed to be partly predetermined and stored as RDF in the information space and partly be extracted from the execution environment. It is noted that the RDF structures can be seen as subgraphs RDF molecules i.e. the building block of RDF graphs or named graphs in the semantic information broker SIB of information spaces.

In one embodiment the process migration module identifies the targeted virtual run time environment e.g. the processing agents where the processes can be migrated to. Prior to migration of the processes the process migration module ensures that the targeted environment has proper access to the information required by the processes. The process migration module may query the agents within the targeted environment about their access capabilities e.g. access rights permissions connectivity etc. .

By way of example access capabilities may also specify what specific information context computing closures processes etc. are accessible by the targeted environment. The process migration module may then determine whether the information accessible by an agent of the target environment is consistent e.g. compatible formats correct versions compatible runtime environments etc. with the information required by the processes and also whether the resource load in the target environment allows the agents in the environment to accept execution of migrated processes. If the consistency condition is met and the target environment has sufficient available resources the process migration module transfers the processes to the target environment. Otherwise a warning may be issued to the user of the first UE stating that the selected second UE is unable to perform the requested tasks or processes. The transmission of processes may be a direct transmission or an indirect transmission via an information space a third device a cloud computing component a network infrastructure element or a combination thereof.

Following the migration of processes to the target environment on the second UE the second UE reconstructs the migrated processes by simulating the context as stored in the memory . By way of example this simulation may include emulating any necessary runtime environments for executing the transferred processes. In addition or alternatively the reconstruction of the user context execution context or the combination thereof may be performed by a third device. In this manner one or more devices e.g. the second UE and the third UE can reconstruct all or a portion of the processes of the first UE for execution individually or cooperatively in parallel.

It is noted that all the information that is exchanged among the components of the content platform which may be a part of an information management infrastructure including the granularity the reflectivity the context the targeted environment the information accessible by agents etc. may be encoded e.g. serialized and stored in RDF format so that the pieces of information are compatible and therefore combining and extracting of information can be performed with less complexity.

In one embodiment a physical structure e.g. a server of the content platform receives the content request. The control logic and the context determination module can be utilized to filter processes and or content requests to generate filtered results. The filtering can be implemented via one or more relevancy parameters and or context information e.g. social graphs that may be stored in the memory received from another location determined according to information or a combination thereof. Then the filtered results can be presented to one or more users of the user equipment set . Example results are further detailed in .

An application is associated with user interface elements displayed on the user interface . These user interface elements can include a search input user interface element filtered search result etc. In this scenario a filtered search result is highlighted as compared to other results. One or more criteria as described above can be utilized in the filtering. As such it can be determined that information associated with Elizabeth should be presented. This can be determined based on a social graph and or other contextual information. For example Elizabeth may have commented on a skating rink in central park recently and is a direct contact of the user. In certain scenarios the Wollman Rink may be determined to be presented instead of one or more other skating rinks associated with the search because of Elizabeth s comments.

Further more detailed information can be presented on user interface if the Wollman Rink UI element is selected e.g. via a touch enabled input a keypad input etc. . As such more detailed information about the skating rink is presented on a UI element . Elizabeth s comments can be sorted to the front based on one or more criteria e.g. relevancy criteria . Further UI elements associated with other users e.g. Jenni can be presented. In certain scenarios some information associated with Jenni e.g. a calendar UI element can be presented ahead of a past comment rating UI element .

User interface shows another search with personalized world content. In this scenario it was determined that no persons associated with a social graph of the user have commented on associated content. A determination of whether a person is associated with a social graph can be based on one or more comparisons or matching of information. For example pictures associated with the person in a social graph can be matched to pictures associated with the content e.g. a picture of the person s face . Additionally or alternatively the matching information may be associated with a username an e mail address another identifier a name a location an address one or more tags etc. Further when the content is generated the content can be associated with the persons which can add metadata to base content filtering upon. Content associated with the rest of the world can be filtered and or sorted based on relevancy criteria. For example the New York City Conference Centers UI element can be sorted result content based on the previously discussed relevancy scoring procedures. When selected additional content results can be presented. Further these content results can be sorted according to the relevancy criteria mentioned above.

At step the control logic detects a content request from one or more programs. The content request may be associated with a UE and or user of a user information space set . Further the content request may be for example a search for content a request for information associated with a particular location a request for a particular type of information associated with a location a request to retrieve content combinations thereof etc. One or more criteria may be associated with the content request by default or using preferences. For example a user may enter that the user would like certain types of content information during certain periods of time. As noted above a program can be at an application level at a system level e.g. operating system component or a combination thereof.

Context information associated with associated with the UE the user or a combination thereof is determined step . The context information may include a social graph e.g. a hierarchical social graph as detailed above. Further the context information can include a location a time an activity combinations thereof etc. The context information may be utilized to determine relevancy information. The context information and or relevancy information as noted above is utilized in filtering the content request and or one o more of the programs.

At step the control logic determines at another program e.g. a program different from the one or more programs associated with the content request to filter the content request the one or more programs or a combination thereof. The filtering can be done based on one or more criteria. The criteria can include one or more rules to determine to filter out the content request and or programs. For example the criteria can be based on a social graph. Thus if the content request does not query a database that includes information associated with the social graph the content request can be filtered.

The control logic determines one or more results of the content request based at least in part on the filtered content request the filtered one or more programs or a combination thereof step . The results can be determined by completing the filtered content request and or executing the filtered programs. In one embodiment if the content request is filtered no results are generated. In certain embodiments the content request the one or more programs the one or more results or a combination thereof are represented as one or more computation closures one or more information closures or a combination thereof. These closures can be filtered as further detailed in . The results can be generated by completing the content request. Further the content results can be filtered according to one or more criteria. In this scenario metadata associated with the content can be utilized in comparisons to the criteria. As such content that does not match the criteria can be filtered while content results that do match the criteria can remain.

These content results can then be presented step . Further one or more unfiltered results can be determined. These results can be associated with content that does not meet the criteria. The control logic determines to present the one or more results the one or more unfiltered results or a combination thereof as shown for example in and . As shown in the presentation distinguishes the one or more results from the one or more unfiltered results.

Typically during an information processing lifecycle one or more execution contexts that may be represented in RDF form based on sub graphs are stored by a SIB of an information space set . The user context and execution context may result from execution of a program code of an application by a knowledge processor KP and stored in memory of UE which is utilized by SIB . If a KP of UE detects that the UE is attempting to communicate with UE over a communications medium UE can share the user and execution contexts over a communications connection in the communications medium with UE for continued or enhanced execution of an application by a KP in UE . Following the completion of the process on UE the UE may receive an alert from the SIB indicating closing of the communication connection with for example stationary wireless UE . In this case UE may receive updated user and execution contexts from the UE over the communications connection so that the UE can continue the execution of the application on a KP 

In one embodiment the information and execution contexts to be shared between UE and UE may be associated with sharing a network connection among the UEs provided by the content platform . It is noted that a communications medium can be physical or logical virtual but in this embodiment all managed by the content platform . The sharing of the user and execution contexts and reflective process execution of the applications associated with connection sharing on KP of UE is managed by the content platform . The content platform shares and provides reasoning about user and execution contexts between UE and UE with SIBs and . For example UE may be a mobile wireless with a network radio and UE may be a mobile device with a local radio.

The content platform enables aggregation of user and execution context information and scheduling of the run time environment. This enables changes to be made to one or more user contexts and and execution contexts not shown . Changes to user and execution contexts may include starting executing scheduling and dispersing and aggregating of information related to connection sharing within the environment of the information space set processes or tasks wrapped through KPs and or other KPs functionalities such as process scheduling and memory management and system calls and etc.

KPs and and their corresponding information in the form of RDF sub graph dispersion and aggregation may be performed by selective recycling apparatus of the information space set and or the distribution. Selective recycling may be driven by a recovery conscious scheduler that may be part of the information space environment scheduler and supported by information provided by the computing environment processes tasks scheduler and . The user contexts and and the execution contexts not shown related to connection sharing may be dynamically assigned and triggered by the content platform and allocated according to a particular or operating system task management. It is noted that the terms KP and relevant information within SIB represented as RDF sub graph sets are abstract enough to be presented through other procedural aspects of the computing environment e.g. a higher abstraction level .

In one embodiment following the receipt of one or more user contexts and and additional execution contexts by UE from UE and other relevant information over a communications medium the UE executes or shares the reflective state of the application by a KP . Upon completion of the process the UE may determine the information shared with SIB through corresponding KP . This determination may result in closing a secure communication link with UE . Prior to closing the communication connection the UE may share one or more user and execution contexts with UE over the communications medium for continued execution of the application by KP in UE . The sharing of the user and execution contexts and execution of the application on UE is managed by the content platform . Such virtual run time environment enables shared user and execution context sessions between UE and UE

In another embodiment prior to closing of the communication connection the UE may share an initial portion of the updated user and execution context with UE over a initial communication connection and share the remaining portion of the updated user and execution contexts with UE over the last communication connection for continued execution of the application on UE . The adaptive computing platform described enables granular information processing context migration capability for a computing device to enhance the processing power of the devices within the information space environment.

In one embodiment the UEs and may be mobile devices belonging to friends who are members of one or more social networks in which they have indicated each other as friends. In some other embodiments one of the or may be a back end device providing services to the users and the other device may be a UE which is signed up for the services provided by the back end device. It is assumed in this example that user context provides UE with computation closures associated with the content requested by UE . Therefore user context and corresponding computation closures are migrated or otherwise provided to UE based on a request for content initiated by UE to the communication network . The migration process may be initiated by the content platform upon receiving the request from UE . The content platform activates Agent1 and Agent2 which initiate migration of the computation closure to the information space set

Block represents an Object as a set of computation closures e.g. closure 1 closure 2 . . . and closure n where each closure is a component of a larger process for example related to a service provided to the user by the user equipment such as a shared radio connectivity. Each closure can be a standalone process that can be executed independently from the other closures.

In the example of the filtering process extracts closure 1 from the closure set Object via filtering the set shown in block . The extracted closure 1 is added to a computation closure store using the exemplary Put command by the control logic . In this example assuming that the extracted computation closure closure 1 is supposed to be executed on the user equipment the user equipment extracts the computation closure closure 1 from the computation closure store using the Get command .

In one embodiment the decision of the equipment on which a computation closure is executed may be automatically assigned. The extracted closure 1 is projected into a closure with the user device context process states and the object is produced on UE . The block represents the reconstruction of the closure into the initial context. The aggregated context may then be executed in the run time environment of UE by Agent3 allowing UE to function as the activated UE within the connectivity group when its turn comes.

In another embodiment the information related to activation process which is transferred from UE to UE via computation closure store is converted into computation closures in RDF format by the information space management system not shown if they are not already in RDF format. The migration processor Agent3 of UE which may be part of a larger process and may be written in languages different from processors Agent1 and Agent2 in UE e.g. Python or JavaScript enable the migration of the process into the UE

Upon receiving the process migration information at the UE activation of the Agent3 may trigger resumption of the execution of migrated computation closures within context which enable UE to be activated. In one embodiment the one or more closures of the Object can include one or more content requests programs results or combinations thereof.

At step a new place is determined to be a potential content request result. The new place is then determined to be categorized by the control logic . The control logic can determine whether the new place includes any embedded content published by a member of the user s social graph e.g. a friend step . If the place does not include any content associated with a member of the user s social graph the place is designated in a first category e.g. a world place category step .

Otherwise if the place is associated with content associated with a member of the user s social graph the place can be designated into another category e.g. a friend place category step . This category can be further defined. For example the control logic can determine if the member of the social graph is directly connected to the user step . If the member is not directly connected e.g. a friend of a friend the member is a secondary connection and the place can be designated as a secondary connection place step . Further if the member is directly connected the member can be designated a primary connection and the place can be designated a primary connection place step .

These categorical determinations can be utilized to then filter the place for presentation. is a diagram of user interfaces utilized in the processes of according to one embodiment. User interface shows a map application presenting one or more places according to a filter showing only places that are associated with members of the user s social graph. A filter option can be utilized to set this view.

User interface shows the map application presenting places associated with a filter option to show both friend places and world places . Further if the user chooses the user may select a filter option for only world places on user interface .

Further content on user interfaces can be filtered based on criteria associated with the categories. For example a filter selection can be respectively utilized to select content associated with friends friends and the rest of the world or only the world. As such user interface shows content associated with friends user interface shows content associated with friends or other world content and user interface presents content associated with the world and not friends of the user.

Moreover in certain embodiments the user interfaces can be presented in a three dimensional display. As such the content may pop out or be shown with additional depth via the display. Further the places can be determined using one or more augmented reality mixed reality positioning systems e.g. global positioning system GPS assisted GPS cell of origin etc. etc. These systems may additionally be invoked utilizing information spaces.

The processes described herein for determining content results based on filtered information may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to determine content results based on filtered information. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for determining content results based on filtered information. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining content results based on filtered information is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine content results based on filtered information. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of determining content results based on filtered information. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to determine content results based on filtered information. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

