---

title: Social networking management server
abstract: A social media management server (MS) provides a single authentication point for a client device to log in to multiple social networking accounts. Through the MS, the client device can pull social networking updates to it or have them pushed to the client device. Also, the MS provides a set of APIs for all enabled client devices to interact with social networking sites/services. The MS updates APIs between itself and the social networking sites/services without changing the APIs between itself and client devices in that only mandatory changes in the MS-to-social networking servers APIs are propagated to the APIs between the MS and client devices to reduce the API update requirements on the client side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495710&OS=09495710&RS=09495710
owner: SONY CORPORATION
number: 09495710
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100920
---
The present application relates generally to social networking management servers for managing user access to multiple user social networking accounts.

 Social media is term that encompasses an Internet subset websites that primarily allow users to interact with each other in a variety of ways. Well known social media sites include Facebook Twitter and MySpace . A social network service typically embodied by a social network server on the Internet focuses on the online building and reflecting social networks or social relations among people e.g. who share interests and or activities. The process of building online communities through social networking Internet sites hosted by social networking Internet servers is often accomplished both through groups and friends lists that allow greater interaction on websites. Social networking sites allow people to easily and simply create their own online page or profile and to construct and display an online network of contacts. Such sites have met with success more than four in five US online adults now participate in or consume social media at least once a month. Almost one quarter of U.S. online adults are creators i.e. people who write blogs upload original audio or video to their online friends or post stories online.

As understood as social networking sites proliferate users often become members of multiple sites. As also understood herein managing the various authorizations to log on to multiple sites along with contending with varying and different application programming interfaces APIs provided by the various sites can grow into time consuming tasks as many user typically wish to exchange the same information over more than a single social networking site simultaneously.

Accordingly a computing device includes a processor and a video display controlled by the processor. The processor presents on the video display a user interface UI to enable a user to manage plural social networking accounts. The processor sends to a management server MS information related to plural social networking site accounts in which a user of the client device is enrolled with the client device subsequently logging in to the plural social networking accounts by a single login with the MS.

In some embodiments once login by the client device at the MS is successful the client device presents a list of all the current social networking accounts thereby enabling a user to select one or more accounts and interact with each or all of them directly. Data transfer and communication do not go through the MS but rather are communicated directly between the client device and an appropriate social networking site server SS .

As set forth further below if desired the processor causes a pull UI to be presented on the display to enable a user to pull related update notification RSS feeds from one or more SS. Additionally or in lieu of the pull UI the processor may cause a push UI to be presented on the display to enable a user to cause the MS to request updates from all SS with which the user has accounts using the account information provided by the user. The client device receives the updates through the MS.

In non limiting examples the push UI permits the user to select to have updates from all social networking accounts of the user or to select only specific social networking accounts from which updates are pushed. The processor may further cause a disposition UI to be presented on the display to allow a user to select what to do with updates received from a SS. The disposition UI can enable a user to select to have updates automatically pop up on the display as the updates are received or stored in an inbox for later access.

In another aspect a social media management server MS provides a single authentication point for a client device to log in to multiple social networking accounts. The MS provides a set of application programming interfaces APIs for the client device to interact with social networking servers SS . Also the MS updates at least some APIs between itself and the SS without changing APIs between itself and the client device in that only mandatory changes in MS to SS APIs are propagated to APIs between the MS and client device.

In another aspect a method includes using a management server MS as a single login gateway for a client to log in to plural social networking site servers SS using a single user name and password sent to the MS. The method also includes updating application programming interfaces API between the MS and client device responsive to a determination that an API between the MS and a SS has been changed with a mandatory change and not updating API between the MS and client device responsive to a determination that an API between the MS and a SS has been changed with a non mandatory change.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a social networking client device such as a TV as shown or a personal digital assistant laptop computer personal computer PC smart wireless telephone etc. includes a housing bearing a digital processor . The processor can control a visual display and an audible display such as one or more speakers. The processor may access a media player module such that the device has media decoding capability.

To undertake present principles the processor may access one or more computer readable storage media such as but not limited to RAM based storage a chip implementing dynamic random access memory DRAM or flash memory or disk storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the device may be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles. Also one or more Internet browsers may be stored on the medium and executed by the processor to access servers on the Internet.

The processor can receive user input signals from various input devices including a keyboard or keypad hereinafter keypad without loss of generality a point and click device such as a TV remote control RC etc. A network interface such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver may also be provided and may communicate with the processor so that information can be exchanged between the client device over the Internet with a social networking management server MS and plural social networking site servers SS . The MS server includes one or more server processors and one or more server storage devices bearing computer readable instructions that may be accessed by the processor to execute relevant logic discussed below. The memories herein are contemplated to be non transitory. The SS likewise have respective processors and computer readable storage media. When the client device is embodied as a TV as shown it includes a TV tuner .

In accordance with present principles and as described more fully below the client device is enabled to both pull social networking really simple solution RSS feeds from the SS and to have such feeds pushed to it. Such RSS feeds typically are for publishing frequently updated works such as blog entries audio and video and usually include text and metadata such as publication date and author name. These feeds benefit social networking site friends who wish to subscribe to timely updates from other members of the social network.

Furthermore as discussed below present principles provide for a seamless and single set of APIs between the MS and various types of client devices so that API changes on the client side are minimized. Also the MS manages house keeping and changes with social networking services APIs and provides authentication for client devices. Data communication bandwidth of the MS is reduced because client devices communicate directly with the SS after authentication so that any necessary scaling can be done by the SS .

Now referring to at block the client device informs the MS of all the social networking site accounts the user of the client device is enrolled in. Proceeding to block the MS establishes a single login for a management account for the client device by which the client device can log in simultaneously to all social networking sites to which it belongs. In one example embodiment the MS does this by presenting a UI on the client device instructing the user to enter a universal social networking site name and password. Then at block for subsequent user logins to the MS the MS determines whether authentication is successful. If so at block the MS automatically logs the client device onto the various SS associated with the user s social networking sites by using the account information provided at block and specifically by providing the respective user name and password to each SS .

Once login by the client device at the MS and hence the SS is successful the client device is presented with a list of all the current social networking services. The client device enables a user to select one or more services and interacts with each or all of them directly. After this point data transfer and communication does not go through the MS but rather is between the client device and appropriate SS .

As an example suppose a SS determines that it wishes to add a field requesting the user s salary. Such information normally is not required by Internet servers but is optional on the user s part. Accordingly in such a scenario the client device API would remain unchanged with the MS simply ignoring the salary request from the SS . On the other hand if a SS changes its privacy policy and mandates that users agree to the change then the MS propagates the API change at block to change the client device API accordingly.

Now moving to at block the SS receiving a social networking site update for the user of the client device provides an update address such as a uniform resource locator URL to the MS . The MS causes the address to be presented to the client device so that a user can click on the link at block to pull related update notification RSS feeds from the SS . At block in response to the user selection the SS sends the RSS feeds to the client device . In this way a device client can receive updates and notification via RSS feeds by pulling a URL provided by the social networking service SS .

In contrast shows that the client device may receive such RSS feeds from a SS through a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP GET request. Specifically at block the MS provides a push API for all the user s social networking services sites to post status updates notification. The user then points an update status URL of the client device to this API and for send operations from the client device all of the electronic clients that belong or follow subscribe to his her account will receive updates status notification in real time. An example API is 

For receiving updated from the various SS at block the user of the client device clicks on the push URL causing the MS at block to request updates such as RSS feeds from all SS with which the user has accounts using the account information provided by the user at block of . Proceeding to block updates are sent by the SS through the MS to the client device albeit without being permanently stored at the MS . The client device thus has updates sent from all SS with which it has accounts pushed to it using the logic of .

The interaction with social networking services includes uploading media files photo music video etc posting texts updates comments status etc getting text updates and notifications via RSS feeds or other scheduling notification system provided by the social networking service and broadcasting texts to one or multiple social networking service. The seamless set of API provide a single interface for existing and new client devices to quickly connect and interact with a wide variety of social networking sites. The API enable fast development on the client side since the adherence to the social networking services APIs have already been established by the MS . Since all the client devices use the same set of APIs and all the house keeping and necessary communication channel is performed by the MS future social networking services can be easily added included into the social networking service lists that are available to the client devices. The client device does not need to perform a software update to access and enjoy a new social networking service. Once the new social networking service has coordinated information exchange with the MS it can be added and activated by the MS .

While the particular SOCIAL NETWORKING MANAGEMENT SERVER is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

