---

title: System and method for explosively stamping a selective fragmentation pattern
abstract: A selective fragmentation pattern of explosive material is applied to a surface of a munition. None, some, or all of the explosive material in the selective fragmentation pattern may be detonated, selectively stamping the surface of the munition with the detonated explosive material. The portion of the selective fragmentation pattern selected for ignition is determined by lethality requirements of a target of the munition. Upon detonation of the munition, fragments are formed based on the selected portion of the selective fragmentation pattern. Consequently, igniting all, some, or none of the selective fragmentation pattern may vary lethality of a munition and one munition may be used for a wide range of lethality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161884&OS=08161884&RS=08161884
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08161884
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101229
---
This application is a continuation in part from application Ser. No. 11 977 305 filing date Oct. 22 2007 now abandoned entitled System And Method For Explosively Stamping A Selective Fragmentation Pattern by the same inventors.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The present invention generally relates to the field of ballistics and in particular relates to explosively formed projectiles and munition casings. More particularly the present invention pertains to using an explosive material to stamp a pattern on an explosively formed projectile or munition casing to fragment to cause the explosively formed projectile or munition to effect the production of fragments when the munition is exploded.

An explosively formed projectile or penetrator EFP uses an explosive energy to deform a metal plate into a coherent penetrator while simultaneously accelerating the coherent penetrator to extremely high velocities employing a kinetic energy penetrator without the necessity of a large gun. A conventional explosively formed projectile is comprised of one or more metallic liners a case an explosive section and an initiation train. Typically the explosively formed projectile comprises a retaining ring to position and hold the liner explosive subassembly in place. Explosively formed projectiles produce one or more massive high velocity penetrators. After detonation the explosive products create enormous pressures that accelerate one or more liners while simultaneously reshaping the liners into a rod or some other desired shape. The explosively formed penetrator then impacts the target at a high speed delivering significantly high mechanical power.

An EFP warhead configuration typically comprises a steel case a high explosive charge and a metallic liner. Explosively formed projectile warheads have been designed to project one or more high velocity projectiles to attack armored targets. Currently each type of EFP warhead is designed for a specific set of targets and a specific lethality range. For example a larger more massive EFP warhead is used for heavily armored targets such as tanks while lightly armored targets require a smaller less massive EFP.

The overall limited functionality of an EFP warhead requires duplication of munitions during deployment increasing the complexity of planning for a deployment decreasing the number of each type of EFP warhead required and increasing the complexity of engaging an enemy.

Conventional EFP warhead configurations comprise fragmentation techniques to expand the set of targets for a specific EFP warhead. Although this technology has proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional improvements. One fragmentation technique requires intricate forming or machining of the metallic liner to form when exploded a center slug with a concentric ring of fragments. Although the lighter weight fragments formed by this EFP warhead are suitable for softer targets this approach reduces the amount of mass available for the center slug reducing the lethality against harder targets. In this approach the fragmentation pattern is fixed during manufacture and cannot be changed during deployment.

Another fragmentation technique places a large mesh screen in front of the metallic liner. When exploded the metallic liner impacts and passes through the screen fragmenting the metallic liner. This approach allows a specific EFP warhead to be deployed without the screen against a heavily armored target and with the screen against a softer target. However a complex release mechanism is required to release the screen when the screen is not desired.

Fragmentation techniques are also used on munitions casings to generate case fragmentation during deployment of a munition increasing the effectiveness of the munition against a variety of targets. Although this technology has proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional improvements. Conventional techniques for producing case fragmentation require a multi step process that can be complex and costly. In one approach a flat metal sheet is embossed and formed into the cylindrical portion of the casing. In another approach the cylindrical portion of the casing is broached in a complex two step process. In both approaches the fragmentation pattern is fixed during manufacture and cannot be changed during deployment to meet the lethality requirements of a variety of targets.

What is therefore needed is a fragmentation technique that introduces versatility and selectivity in the output of an EFP warhead or munition casing providing an EFP warhead or munition with variable and selectable lethality for deployment against a variety of targets. Thus there is a need for a system and method for explosively stamping a selective fragmentation pattern. The need for such a system has heretofore remained unsatisfied.

The present invention satisfies this need and presents a system and an associated method collectively referred to herein as the system or the present system for explosively stamping a selective fragmentation pattern.

The present system comprises an explosive material permanently applied to a surface of a munition in a predetermined selective fragmentation pattern. The applied material is allowed to dry and permanently remain on such surface in such pattern. Some or all of the explosive material in the selective fragmentation pattern may then be ignited which selectively stamps or etches the surface of the munition where the explosive material is ignited into such desired patterns. The portion of the selective fragmentation pattern selected for ignition is determined by lethality requirements of the target of the munition. Then upon later detonation of the entire munition fragments are formed based on the selected pattern. Consequently igniting all some or none of the selective explosive material will affect a particular selected fragmentation pattern and may vary lethality of a munition to achieve a wide range of target objectives. The ignition of the explosive material described herein is regularly done to an already fully manufactured and assembled said munition and such ignition may be done long before but also may be done just a split second before or milliseconds before e.g. the main explosive charge of the munition is to be detonated. Such pre ignition makes it possible for a pattern to stamp etch an inside of the munition casing such may be selected and accomplished by electrical signals to deliver current to a point or points on the explosive material to initiate ignition thereof at such point s . The general pattern s desired for the explosive material are pre applied to the munition the pattern or pattern s are permanently applied as for example by painting on a pattern of explosive material that dries and permanently remains on the munition in such pattern s . The outside of the device rather than the inside of the device may also be instead the surface to which the explosive material pattern is applied or painted on and then ignited in the same way to etch the outside surface thereof and the invention will also function satisfactorily nonetheless to fragment the munition along such desired pattern s . The explosive pattern may be all partially ignited as desired selected . The selection is done by activating an electrical signal such as by digital or other circuit means at selective points on the explosive pattern simultaneously or consecutively if desired. The entire munition is usually manufactured to have the explosive material in a pattern already on the inside or outside of the munition but instead the explosive material could be added on later such as on the outside of the munition. Ignition of the explosive pattern in an already assembled munition or already flying munition is not violent enough so as to destroy or cause full explosion of the munition in any way. Such ignition of the explosive material would merely cause an etching on the selected surface usually an interior surface of the munition. The munition would still be intact. As mentioned such ignition could be done while the munition is already in flight even microseconds to milliseconds before the munition main explosive charge is to be detonated such as while homing in on a particular target. The decision of when to ignite the explosive material and in what patterns can be done automatically manually in flight when the nature of the target is discerned either automatically manually such as by target detection equipment. As mentioned the pre ignition creates etching which forms slight trenches on the inside surface of the munition shell. The etching could instead be arranged to be on the outside surface of the munition or on both inside and outside if desired . The eventual fragmentation will be generally along the lines of such trenches. In another approach the pre ignition of the explosive material causing etching can be done well before use and detonation of the munition such as six months or a longer time before use once a mission need is decided upon for instance. U.S. Pat. No. 3 877 376 issued Apr. 15 1975 to Vahey Kupelian and U.S. Pat. No. 4 516 501 issued May 14 1985 to Held et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 544 589 issued Aug. 13 1996 to Manfred Held are all hereby incorporated by reference herein as though fully set forth at length.

A selective fragmentation pattern of explosive material may be applied to any portion of a munition and selectively detonated to form stamped lines along which fragmentation occurs when the munition is exploded. Exemplary munitions comprise kinetic energy warheads comprising one or more multi fragmenting warhead liners mortars artillery shells grenades mines etc.

In one embodiment portions of a pattern of explosive material may be selectively detonated to form different sizes of fragments in which the different sizes of fragments are selected to match lethality requirements for different targets. Portions of the selective fragmentation pattern are selected to produce larger fragments for armored targets requiring a higher lethality munition or smaller fragments for lightly armored or soft targets requiring a lower lethality munition.

The main explosive charge comprises for example LX 14 OCTOL hand packed C 4 or some other solid explosive and is machined cast or hand packed to fit snugly within the inside of the housing. In addition the main explosive charge is machined to comprise a countersunk recess in its forward end for receiving snug placement of the multi fragmenting warhead liner .

When detonated the ignited explosive material of pattern stamps the surface of the multi fragmenting warhead liner A. Exploding the warhead fragments the multi fragmenting warhead liner A along the ignited stamped lines causing the multi fragmenting warhead liner A to break into fragments e.g. such as a section . Pattern provides a number of sections of approximately equal size and equal lethality appropriate for lightly armored or soft targets.

In one embodiment portions of a pattern of explosive material may be selectively detonated to form different sizes of fragments in which the different sizes of fragments are selected to match lethality requirements of different targets. For example illustrates a selective ignition of the pattern in which the explosive material of horizontal lines and vertical lines and are detonated the explosive material of horizontal lines and vertical lines are not detonated. helps show how the individual vertical and horizontal lines of explosive material of e.g. might be selectively ignited. There each and every vertical and horizontal line may be individually selectively electrically connected for example by electrical leads not all connections or details thereof are shown to a selective ignition means details of which are not fully shown here . Means simply allows a selected horizontal or vertical line or segment thereof to be connected to a source of electric current as desired through the electrical leads. Such flow of current along the lead causes immediate ignition of the explosive material along that selected line. Means which could employ commonly available digital switch circuit means could if desired be commanded from a processor telemetry means which has determined a target and calculated decided what type fragments to use against such target. Means could also be manually operated to select lead lines for powering with current or commanded manually from a ground station to a flying munition for example.

The resulting selectively stamped pattern is shown in and comprises stamped horizontal lines comprising a stamped horizontal line a stamped horizontal line a stamped horizontal line and a stamped horizontal line . The selectively stamped pattern further comprises stamped vertical lines comprising a stamped vertical line a stamped vertical line a stamped vertical line and a stamped vertical line . The un detonated horizontal lines and vertical lines are not shown in .

The selectively stamped pattern comprises sections ranging in size from a relatively large piece a section to smaller pieces such as a section . The larger size of section is selected for more heavily armored targets while the smaller size of section is applicable for lightly armored or soft targets.

Consequently selective ignition of pattern enables variable and selective lethality of warhead from maximum lethality of the whole multi fragmenting warhead liner A to a reduced lethality of a fragment formed from section . All some or none of the explosive material of horizontal lines and the vertical lines may be selectively detonated to selectively vary the lethality of warhead . In one embodiment selective ignition of pattern is performed manually prior to deploying warhead . In another embodiment selective ignition of pattern is performed automatically by the warhead before or after deployment of the warhead in response to a manual determination of lethality requirements of a target. In yet another embodiment selective ignition of pattern is performed automatically by the warhead before or after deployment of the warhead in response to an automatic determination of lethality requirements of a target.

In the multi fragmenting warhead liner C comprises an exemplary selective fragmentation pattern interchangeably referenced herein as pattern comprising explosive material. Pattern comprises radial segments . Radial segments comprises a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment a radial segment and a radial segment . Pattern further comprises a circular line . When warhead is detonated the multi fragmenting warhead liner C fragments along the radial segments and the circular line forming fragments such as a fragment and a center disk . The explosive material of the radial segments and the circular segment may be selectively detonated to stamp any or all of the lines in pattern on the multi fragmenting warhead liner C. helps show how the individual radial and circular lines of explosive material of might be selectively ignited. There each and every vertical and horizontal line is electrically connected along electrical lead lines such as not all connections or details thereof are shown to a selective ignition means details of which are not fully shown . Means simply allows a selected radial or circular line to be connected to a source of electric current as desired. Such flow of current causes immediate ignition of the explosive material along that selected line or circle. Means which could employ simple digital switch means could if desired be commanded from a processor telemetry means which has determined a target and decided what type fragments to use against such target. Means could also be manually operated to select lead lines for powering with current or commanded manually from a ground station to a flying munition e.g.

The explosive material may be applied to the multi fragmenting warhead liner by any appropriate means.

A pattern of explosive material may be applied to any portion of a munition and selectively detonated to form stamped lines along which fragmentation occurs when the munition is exploded. Exemplary munitions include kinetic energy warheads comprising one or more multi fragmenting warhead liners mortars artillery shells grenades mines etc.

Method branches at decision step based on manual or automatic selective ignition of the explosive material the selective fragmentation pattern. If selective ignition is automatic the munition is delivered to a target step . Delivery to a target comprises launching a grenade deploying a mine or kinetic energy weapon launching a mortar etc. The munition automatically determines the lethality requirements of the target step . Based on the lethality requirements of the target the explosive material of the selective fragmentation pattern is selectively detonated stamping a selected portion of the selective fragmentation pattern on the surface of the selected munition step . The munition is detonated step and fragments are formed based on the selected portion of the selective fragmentation pattern .

If selective ignition is manual a user determines the lethality requirements of the target step . Based on the lethality requirements of the target the user selectively ignites the explosive material of the selective fragmentation pattern stamping a selected portion of the selective fragmentation pattern on the surface of the selected munition step . The munition is delivered to the target step and method returns to step . As previously described the selected munition is detonated step and fragments are formed based on the selected portion of the selective fragmentation pattern .

It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principle of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the system and method for explosively stamping a fragmentation pattern described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

