---

title: Method and apparatus for ad-hoc peer-to-peer augmented reality environment
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided for providing augmented reality client application content to be enabled for one or more nodes. A method may include specifying a bounded area of a mesh network and associating content with the bounded area. The method may additionally include causing, at least in part, a peer-to-peer transmission of the content to one or more nodes within the bounded area over the mesh network. Corresponding apparatuses are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417691&OS=09417691&RS=09417691
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09417691
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100326
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. In particular these services can include location and navigation services on a device including augmented reality applications and content. Augmented reality applications allow users to generate real time representations of physical environments with virtual computer generated imagery. More specifically the view of reality is modified by a computer where the imagery is in semantic context with the environment. Consider for example a scenario where a user is operating a cell phone with integrated video capture that is recording the user s current surroundings. An augmented reality client application operable on the cell phone can interact with the video capturing device location detection systems and any other sensory mechanisms of the cell phone to overlay various graphic elements atop the recorded image. The graphic elements can for instance convey useful contextual information to the user regarding the images being captured such as the names of objects addresses news data advertisements other attractions within proximity to the image being captured etc. However the graphic elements and related information e.g. videos images etc. can often involve the transfer of high volumes of data between the cell phone or other device and a corresponding server on the network thereby taxing the bandwidth and capacity of the corresponding server and or communication network. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to providing rich content to or information to augmented reality and similar applications while reducing the burden on the supporting communication network.

Therefore there is a need for an approach to providing augmented reality client application content to be enabled for one or more nodes within a bounded area of a mesh network as an alternate to providing the content over a traditional communication network.

According to one embodiment a method comprises specifying a bounded area of a mesh network. The method also comprises associating content with the bounded area. The method further comprises causing at least in part a peer to peer transmission of the content to one or more nodes within the bounded area over the mesh network.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to perform at least the following specify a bounded area of a mesh network associate content with the bounded area and cause at least in part a peer to peer transmission of the content to one or more nodes within the bounded area over the mesh network.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing augmented reality client application content to be enabled for one or more nodes within a bounded area of a mesh network are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term content refers to any information e.g. images videos audio files documents etc. and or context about a local environment as well as the users and communication devices within the local environment. By way of example this content can be used to support applications for creating social networks determining presence determining contexts associated with a device advertising searching for information etc. Also as used herein augmented reality AR applications refer to any computer executable utilities operable by user equipment for augmenting elements of live direct or indirect views of a physical real world environment with virtual computer generated imagery. The augmentation is conventionally in real time and in semantic context with environmental elements of the moment such as virtual sports scores presented to a TV display during a match. AR applications may include but are not limited to those that add computer vision and object recognition to video or image data content generators for retrieving content relevant to a perceived image or video feed virtual element generators for enhancing interface based applications other and other techniques for enabling a user s interaction with real world environments to become interactive and digitally usable.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used within any type of communication system or network.

To address this problem the system of introduces the capability to specify a bounded area of a mesh network e.g. a bounded area corresponding to a point of interest or area within proximity of the point of interest associate content e.g. an image or video with the bounded area and then cause transmission of the content to one or more other devices or nodes within the bounded area over the mesh network. In this way the system need not communicate with a central server thereby advantageously reducing or eliminating network traffic and resources for obtaining the content from the server. In one embodiment from the perspective of the mesh network the content has an association with the bounded area e.g. the physical area delineated by the defined boundary so that devices participating in the mesh network automatically transmit receive or otherwise exchange the content when the devices enter the bounded area. In certain embodiments the devices may also automatically remove or be alerted to remove the content when leaving the area.

In another embodiment the system can present the content in one or more augmented reality applications or other location based applications based at least in part on the relative locations orientations viewpoints etc. of the nodes within the bounded area of the mesh network. In certain embodiments the presentation of the content can be further based on the locations orientations viewpoints etc. of objects or peripherals e.g. pointers and other like objects that are associated with the node or a user of the node.

As used herein information and context comprise content of a mesh network that metaphorically equip a communication device with radio eyes and ears to continuously collect and exchange relevant information and content with other devices within a local or immediate environment of the mesh network. As noted above content can refer to any data useful for facilitating an augmented reality application experience including but not limited to video audio internet data data files object code images contextual and semantic data textual data etc. In one embodiment content can be relevantly bound to a particular area e.g. the bounded area of the environment in which it is to be used making certain content ideal for one area but obsolete for others. For example content for conveying details regarding a local attraction with a particular city may be not be deemed relevant once the content generator or augmented reality application is outside of the city by say 50 miles. Hence the usefulness of content is based in part at least on determined spatiotemporal time location space based data relevant to said content.

When taken in connection with augmented reality applications participating communication devices also referred to herein as nodes may interact in a manner that facilitates enhanced conveyance of content supports peer to peer versus client server computing techniques enhances access to relevant content pertaining to a given environment in question with minimal network dependence maintains the privacy and anonymity of users sharing content and prevents the proliferation of undesired messages e.g. spam over the network. Throughout the description herein it should be noted that any reference to the conveyance broadcasting generation or sharing of content also applies to any information transmitted by the nodes over the mesh network.

As shown in a system comprises one or more wireless nodes optionally having connectivity to a communication network through either operator A or operator B . The wireless nodes are any type of mobile terminal portable terminal or fixed terminal including mobile handsets personal computers stations units devices multimedia tablets Internet nodes communicators Personal Digital Assistants PDAs radio readable tags e.g. near field communication NFC tags radio frequency identification RFID tags or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the wireless nodes can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In exemplary embodiments the wireless nodes form an ad hoc mesh network for sharing content and other information. The ad hoc mesh network is for instance a connectionless and server less device to device network e.g. a mobile ad hoc network MANET created using short range radio technology e.g. wireless local area network WLAN or Bluetooth . Within the ad hoc mesh network each wireless node may be mobile and is within communication range of any number of other wireless nodes . Accordingly the set of wireless nodes that is within communication range i.e. within the bounds of the mesh network of any particular wireless node is transient and can change as the wireless nodes move from location to location.

In particular the system creates the ad hoc mesh network for sharing content in a connectionless fashion. As used herein the term connectionless refers to the ability of a node e.g. wireless node to send and of all surrounding nodes to receive information without the need to send any prior control signaling. For example sending information or content using the transmission control protocol IP TCP IP over a WLAN ad hoc is not connectionless because of the two way TCP control signaling between the sending and receiving nodes used to establish the TCP connection. The content is provided or shared over the mesh network for instance in small anonymous messages that are exchanged by the wireless nodes automatically without user intervention. As used herein the term anonymous means that it is not possible to infer the true identity of the sender from the message unless the true identity is intentionally included in the message e.g. by the user or another entity authorized by the user . The exchange of information or content occurs as for instance a broadcast message i.e. a flooding message from a wireless node to neighboring wireless nodes that are within range of the radio of the broadcasting wireless node . As neighboring wireless nodes receive the broadcasted message each receiving wireless node may in turn rebroadcast the message to other neighboring wireless nodes . In this way the originally broadcasted message propagates throughout the ad hoc mesh network . In exemplary embodiments the extent of the propagation may be limited by criteria such as distance location time etc. e.g. defined according to one or more predetermined bounded areas of the mesh network .

The wireless nodes may access and share content with one another readily via the mesh network accessing the generated content from internal cache or storage of the participating nodes within the network . In an alternative implementation the nodes can share content via IP through the communication network depending for instance on the availability of other nodes in the mesh network network traffic in the mesh network network traffic in the communication network the anticipated volume of data and the like. In addition the system eliminates the problems associated with traditional methods for route establishment and maintenance e.g. connection based communication protocols such as maintaining and handing off connections as mobile devices move and requiring high levels of network resources for maintaining connections in an environment with a high number or density of mobile devices. For example the event of a wireless node appearing disappearing to from the network does not generate any control signaling in the ad hoc mesh network .

Similarly the system creates routing information only when needed to route replies to queries back to the querying node. The routing information is generated by using the query messages alone i.e. no control signaling is used for creating routing information . After the query and subsequent reply process is completed the routes are forgotten. In other words the query reply process of system provisions routes for a reply to provide awareness information on demand rather than pushing awareness information from one node to another. In exemplary embodiments both push e.g. information is published over the ad hoc mesh network and pull e.g. information is queried from other nodes of the ad hoc mesh network modes of disseminating content or information are possible. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the pull mode of operation can be used instead of the push mode to help suppress potential spam messages.

The system also enables the development of new services and applications based on shared content e.g. social networking applications location based applications application for determining presence applications for determining context advertising applications . In particular the continuous and immediate nature of the awareness information with respect to local environment enables compelling new augmented reality applications. For instance content and other information can be exchanged between multiple nodes to enable shared augmented reality application interplay between nodes within a hunting environment. is a diagram of nodes interacting within a common environment within a bounded area of a mesh network as used to implement an embodiment of the invention

Within a hunting environment multiple users e.g. hunters equipped with portable user equipment i.e. cell phones or smartphones respectively interact to share awareness information and content within the context of the common environment . In this example the extent of the hunting environment represents the particular bounded area of a mesh network created among the smartphones of the participating hunters. Hence as shown each phone is capable of communicating with the other over an ad hoc mesh network employing for instance a short range radio connection e.g. WLAN Bluetooth and the like . Also as shown with respect to each phone has resident thereon an augmented reality client application for generating AR related views respective to shared information or content. So as an example application or use case each hunter can share shooting sector information with the other graphically represented to each user s device as an overlay upon an aerial view or map of the forest in question i.e. mesh based hunting. This application would allow users to see in real time on the shared map where other hunter s areas and shooting sectors are. In addition the current position directional heading gun tilt angle speed of movement of the hunter detected ammunition discharge e.g. detected via audio detection and analysis and other data can be shared for conveyance by a respective AR client application operable via a given device s graphical user interface.

Within the same context as another application or use case alterations in movement can be persistently reported to each node so as to enable alerts to be generated when unwanted objects are within or encroach upon a given shooting sector . Consider for example a first hunter whose detected movement is on due course for and in the direction of a second hunter s shooting sector . Consider also a moving boat whose movement is on due course for and in the direction of a third hunter s shooting sector . In addition to updating this perceived movement through persistent exchange of awareness information between nodes within the ad hoc network content such as images reflecting the path of travel of each hunter can be used to update what is displayed to each user s application interfaces. An alarm and or can be triggered by the augmented reality application on the phone of each participating hunter the hunter s and whose shooting sectors and are to be encroached or the device of the potential encroacher .

Furthermore the augmented reality application can be further integrated with the firearm such as to enable its disablement in response to a detected alarm. Ideally all firearms are equipped with direction and angle sensors and that information is generated into and presented as useful content on a map of the hunting environment . The sensor can be connected with the mobile device i.e. with the Bluetooth and the devices can form the mesh network. The application could also warn if the shooting line is too low in shot guns to prevent any possibility for danger. The application could also warn if the gun points outside of the agreed shooting sector and activate an especially loud alarm if some other shooter is in the direction of the gun. A sensor can also be integrated with the safety switch enabling activating an even louder alarm if the safety switch is off. Still further the augmented reality application could further suggest and display an alternative route to the encroaching hunter based at least in part on the shared awareness information between nodes .

Integrated sensory devices such as audio recorders video recorders spatiotemporal detection devices movement detection mechanisms etc. are readily combined with the increasingly available storage and computing power in mobile devices e.g. wireless nodes . As such the sensor devices are able to provide additional contextual spatial and other practical data regarding each user within the ad hoc network as engaged in the bounded environment . Said data is useful for generating content in connection with the augmented reality applications operable upon each device. Furthermore the compilation of such data creates for the user a local semantic web whereby local awareness information and content are created and searched for automatically by wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . As used herein the term semantic web refers to a system in which the information and messages shared with the system is understandable by the nodes within the system. It is noted that establishing such a local semantic web using the system overcomes two major problems blocking the development of a global semantic web 1 lack of mechanism for providing semantic content on a large scale and 2 lack of semantically aware search engines to help users find information in a semantic web. The system can also be used for collaborative context calculation presenting information or content in searching for friends within a defined community finding out what is going on and what kind of people are around a user making the environment aware of the user and other like applications that can be further enhanced with real time virtual reality elements.

The following are further exemplary use case scenarios for applications based on awareness information including content in connection with augmented reality applications.

Bird watching applications could form automatically via a mesh network between members of the same bird watching club or group. While the club members are in nature looking for a rare bird all members could see the locations of all other searchers on a shared map. Each user s display could be augmented with useful content detailing the type of bird currently being displayed by another participant audio data replicating bird sounds generated or current flight pattern information. If somebody sees the rare bird the bird watcher could press a button and indicate immediately to all others that he she sees the bird. Sensors within the mobile device could detect the direction of viewing or moving direction or direction could be pointed with the mobile device or filming photographing the bird could automatically indicate the direction. This direction would be transmitted to others automatically.

As yet another application or use case tourism can be enhanced via the concepts and techniques herein as utilized by a group of tourist. For example one tourist equipped with a requisite cell phone can press a button to bring others attention to something push to talk take pictures your orientation or pointing to a direction your posture with or without a shared map. This would be done via the standalone ad hoc mesh network. This would avoid high roaming charges flat rate is typically not available when roaming . Furthermore the awareness information exchanged in this context could be used in connection with augmented reality applications so at to render each tourist s user interface with useful interactive elements against the map e.g. video sound recordings news feeds based at least in part of the relative position placement orientation or context of the receiving tourist.

In yet another application or use case search and or rescue operations are facilitated by rescuers distributed over a mesh network. Awareness information and content can be exchanged between rescuers including vital stat information as detected visual route e.g. like virtual graffiti indicators against a map for enabling quick route execution etc. More specifically mobile devices associated with the respective searchers or rescuers may be organized over the mesh network to share common mapping information and to choose optimal routes to maximize the likelihood of finding a lost item or person. By way of example the map may present which areas have already been covered and which areas still need to be searched. In addition information such as the location and heading of the searchers can be combined with information about the search area to recommend where and how each search should go next. Other aspects of the search and rescue use case is described in more detail with respect to below.

By way of example the mesh network services module includes three layers a cognition layer a community layer and a network layer . The cognition layer is the highest control layer for sharing content or information. As shown in the cognition layer includes a control logic and item storage . The control logic for instance provides the logic for creating publishing querying and receiving content or information over the ad hoc mesh network . The control logic can store the information that it either creates or receives in the item storage . It is contemplated that the item storage may be of sufficient size to store all or a portion of the information or content that flows through the wireless node over a configurable period of time e.g. days months or years .

In exemplary embodiments the control logic enables querying and dissemination of content or information by initiating for instance the flooding of the query or information to neighboring wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . For example upon receiving a query the wireless nodes in the local neighborhood that have the queried information reply to the querying node automatically. In exemplary embodiments the reply information can be the content associated with a bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network and is also automatically stored in the item storage of each wireless node through which the propagating reply passes. Moreover the reply to a query may result in return of a pointer to specific content relevant to the query rather than the content itself under certain circumstances e.g. when the specific content is large in size . It is contemplated that the reply may contain direct content if the content is relatively small e.g. a few tens of bytes of information . In other instances however a pointer to the content minimizes the data traffic that flows through the ad hoc mesh network . The user may then access the content via the pointer e.g. a universal resource locator URL address IP address via a more appropriate communication protocol e.g. IP and or means of communication e.g. infrastructure networks . The receipt of the pointer e.g. IP address may automatically trigger the transfer of the content using for instance the communication protocol associated with the pointer. In the case of broadcasting or publishing information any wireless node through which the published information propagates may store the information in item storage of the wireless node .

In other exemplary embodiments content or information can also be published directly by flooding an awareness message. Such a push mode for the dissemination of awareness information can be used to support some applications e.g. advertising or group chatting over the ad hoc mesh network .

It is recognized that privacy and anonymity may be of concern to users of the system . Accordingly the control logic provides mechanisms for ensuring privacy and anonymity. For example the control logic can prevent the transmission of intimate information when the number of neighboring wireless nodes is small to prevent the possibility of inferring identity. As used herein the term intimate information refers to information directly related to the user e.g. the user s habits tastes or preferences musical preferences favorite restaurants etc. .

The control logic may also periodically broadcast decoy queries and replies to make tracking an individual wireless node more difficult. Since an outside observer does not know the authentication key associated with a community the observer cannot distinguish a valid message from a fictitious one. Accordingly by observing decoy messages the observer is likely to detect presence of a private community when there is not one. Additionally the control logic enables to user to define filters for incoming information e.g. filter advertisements and how these filters would work e.g. ignore the information completely relay the information but do not store etc. . It is also contemplated that the user can direct the control logic to control the user s visibility on the ad hoc mesh network e.g. no visibility visible only to a certain community or other user to maintain privacy. As another mechanism for protecting privacy the control logic can interact with the community layer to anonymize a specific message and corresponding identifiers as described below with respect to the community layer .

Because one of the goals of the system is to provide a mechanism for anonymous spreading of content or information within a bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network it is recognized that undesired or unsolicited messages e.g. spam messages may become a problem. To address this problem the control logic may obtain for instance information from the lower system layers of the mesh network services module about the traffic load and current average power consumption. If the traffic load is medium or high meaning that also power consumption related to system is medium or high restrictions may be set for the frequency at which flooding messages are sent by the control logic . It is also contemplated that the neighboring peer nodes can be configured to not forward any flooding messages originating from a node neglecting such message restrictions.

The cognition layer together with the community layer provide an application programming interface API to enable an application to access the functions of the control logic and the item storage . In exemplary embodiments the API enables application developers to have uniform and easy access to functions related to sharing content or information over the ad hoc mesh network . It is contemplated that the API is extensible to accommodate any application designed to access or use content associated with a bounded area of an ad hoc mesh network . The applications in the various nodes do not have to be the same or mutually compatible. It is sufficient that the applications use the API correctly to be able to publish and search content or information in the surrounding nodes .

The cognition layer also has connectivity to the community layer . The community layer controls the formation and cataloging of communities of wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . By way of example a user may create any number of communities for sharing content or information. It is contemplated that a community may be either a peer community e.g. any wireless node may join a personal community e.g. a wireless node may join only if invited or the open local community that consists of all nodes in the local neighborhood. In exemplary embodiments the messages that traverse between the wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network belong to one of these three community types. Communities can either be private messages are encrypted or public no encryption used . In exemplary embodiments membership and status in a community affect how the wireless node shares awareness information see the discussion with respect to for additional details of community membership .

Furthermore a community may be created for any purpose or duration e.g. a permanent work community a permanent community of friends a temporary community of concert goers lasting only the duration of the concert . In one embodiment the community may defined by location to automatically include one or more of the wireless nodes operating within a predefined bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network . As shown in the community layer includes a community control module a community directory and an encryption decryption module . The community control module provides the logic for creating joining managing e.g. updating membership configuring settings and preferences setting privacy policies and deleting communities. The module also provides part of the API .

In exemplary embodiments the community control module assigns a unique community identification number CID to each community for use within the ad hoc mesh network . The control module can also generate authentication keys K associated with the CID to for instance authenticate users who wish to join the community or authenticate messages directed to the community. For example a wireless node may invite another wireless node to join a community by transferring the CID and authentication keys associated with the community to the other wireless node . It is contemplated that the transfer of the CID and corresponding authentication key may occur using short range radio or using another secure mechanism e.g. short message service SMS or electronic mail . It is noted that both peer and personal communities use a CID and corresponding K whereas the open local community either can use a predetermined value for CID e.g. zero or does not use the CID at all.

To ensure privacy as discussed above the community control module interacts with an encryption decryption module to anonymize the CID when including the CID in messages or content over the ad hoc mesh network . For example a wireless node may direct a query to a specific community using an anonymized CID e.g. a pseudonym associated with the community in lieu of the actual CID. In exemplary embodiments multiple anonymized CIDs may be used to represent a single community. In this way it is more difficult to identify queries corresponding to a particular community by monitoring traffic within the ad hoc mesh network . From the perspective of an outside observer the anonymized CIDs look random. In addition the encryption decryption module may encrypt or decrypt message data using for instance a temporary key that is periodically derived from the authentication key K associated with the CID. These measures hinder the discovery of the CID by outsiders that do not have the authentication key. By way of example the community layer inserts a special header into the messages that it receives from the cognition layer . The special header for instance contains a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to which the message is relevant.

When the wireless node is in the joined state the wireless node may also be in either an inactive state or an active state . To transition between the inactive state and the active state the application may issue a command to either activate or deactivate the joined state via the application programming interface . When the wireless node is in the inactive state the community layer abandons the message even though it is a member of the community. In certain embodiments the wireless node may also be invisible to other members of the community while in the inactive state . For example the wireless node may enter the inactive state when it temporarily does not want to receive or share information with the community. When the wireless node is in the active state the community layer encrypts and decrypts community messages as usual for private communities and enables all outgoing and incoming community specific messages for public communities e.g. communities with no restrictions on membership .

Within the active state the wireless node may also be in either an invisible state or a visible state . To transition between the invisible state and the visible state the application issues a command to set either the visible or invisible state. When in the invisible state the community specific identity e.g. a user alias associated with the wireless node cannot be queried by other members of the community. For example in the invisible state the community layer continues to receive and send community messages without its identity known to other community members. When in the visible state the identity of the wireless node can be queried by other members of the community.

In various embodiments the community directory of the community layer maintains for instance information on the communities that the user has joined. Such information contains at least the community identification CID . Additionally it may contain public and or private authentication keys K of the joined communities and a list of anonymized community identifiers for each community. The community control module may periodically recalculate the list of anonymized CIDs. By way of example the community layer inserts a header into the message it receives from the cognition layer . The header contains for instance a list of anonymized community identifiers identifying the communities to which the message is relevant.

It is contemplated that a special personal community can be reserved for tracking new bonds or relationships created between users within for instance the bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network . Consider for example that user A meets user B for the first time and wants to create a radio bond between the mobile devices corresponding to each user. In one embodiment user A can initiate the creation this bond with user B by transferring to user B e.g. by using a secure transfer mechanism the CID and the public K of user A s personal new bonds community. Similarly user B may give user A similar credentials corresponding to user B s new bonds community. Once the credentials are exchanged and the bond has been created user A may find user B over the ad hoc mesh network by searching for members of user A s new bonds community. In other words with a simple search of a single community user A can search for all the people in user A s local neighborhood with whom she has created a bond. This requires that a high number of community CIDs and Ks can be stored in the community directory . Also an effective lookup of the community directory must be provided. There are many existing and good solutions for such efficient lookup.

As the user creates new bonds the number community CIDs and Ks stored in the user s community directory can grow quite large. Accordingly to enable effective search of a large number of communities the community layer may generate a special community search message to initiate the search. For example the special community search message contains at least in part a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to be searched. To protect the privacy the community layer can generate a new set of anonymized community identifiers for each community search message. If the community layer finds a match to any of the anonymized community identifiers in any of the neighboring nodes that receives the search message the community layer generates a reply message that may contain the alias of the user in that community or other community specific information. The reply message may be encrypted with the encryption key of the community.

As shown in the community layer has connectivity to the cognition layer above and the network layer below. The network layer manages the rebroadcasting of received flooding messages and the routing of the unicast typically reply messages received by the wireless node . depicts a diagram of the components of the network layer according to an exemplary embodiment. The network layer includes a network control module routing table neighbor table message identification MID table and message table . The network control module directs the broadcasts of messages and information by managing and updating the routing table neighbor table MID table and message table . In certain embodiments the network control module may also assist in protecting the privacy and anonymity of users by periodically changing the network layer identification associated with the wireless node . It is noted that making such a change in the network layer identification between queries does not cause routing problems for replies because the routing information is recreated by each query in the ad hoc mesh network .

In exemplary embodiments the network layer may insert a header into messages it receives from the community layer to for instance direct flooding and routing of the received messages and content. The structure of this network layer message header is discussed with respect to . is a diagram of the data structure of a network layer message header according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown the message header contains the following fields 1 a TX field to identify the transmitter node ID NID of the last transmitting node 2 a SRC field to identify the source node ID of the node that originated the message 3 a DST field to identify the destination source ID of the intended recipient of a unicast reply message e.g. this field is give a value of zero when the message is a flooding messages 4 a MSN field to identify the message sequence number assigned by the source node and 5 a hop count field that is incremented by one by each node that transmits the message. In certain embodiments the message header may also contain the following optional fields 6 a geographical limit field to designate the extent of the physical over which the message is intended to propagate e.g. the geographical limit field may contain a geographical position of the source node and a maximum flooding radius from that position 7 a temporal limit field e.g. the temporal limit field may contain the time when the message becomes obsolete and should be dropped and 8 a context limit field that defines the context beyond which the message is not intended to propagate e.g. a message related to a particular concert is not intended to extend beyond the concert venue .

Returning to the network layer also contains a routing table . In exemplary embodiments the routing table contains a listing of the node identification number NID of the originating wireless node e.g. source NID and the NIDs of the last known transmitters of the message. The purpose of the routing table is to enable the routing of the reply messages e.g. unicast messages back to the querying node that originated the query through a flooding message. As the message propagates through the ad hoc mesh network each subsequent wireless node that receives the message adds the NID of the last transmitter to the routing table to record the next hop neighbor towards the source node. The source node is marked as the destination node DST in the routing table. Also the message sequence number of the message is recorded. The update of the routing table is coordinated by the network control module . As shown in Table 1 the routing table lists the destination NID the transmitter NIDs associated with wireless nodes that have rebroadcasted a message and the MSN of the message.

The neighbor table contains a list of the neighboring wireless nodes and an estimate of their relative radio distance see Table 3 . It is contemplated that the observed signal strength together with the known transmitting power of a neighboring wireless node is an indicator of the proximity of the wireless node and can be used to calculate the relative radio distance. The relative radio distance of the node from which the message was last received is then used as a criterion for whether or not the wireless node retransmits a received message. For instance a higher signal strength indicates closer proximity to the wireless node . The network control module monitors the signal strengths of neighboring nodes as the module receives messages from nearby devices and uses it to estimate the relative radio distance e.g. proximity of the transmitting node . It is also contemplated that the network control module may use any other mechanism for estimating the relative radio distance of neighboring nodes e.g. estimating location using global positioning satellite receivers or other positioning techniques .

In certain embodiments the network control module uses the proximity information to direct the routing and transmission of messages over the ad hoc mesh network . For example the system can reduce the potential for overloading the ad hoc mesh network by implementing a smart flooding scheme whereby only a few nodes retransmit a flooding message. Whether a node retransmits a flooding message can be dependent on the relative distance group e.g. very near near or far to which the node that is the transmitter of the message belongs. More specifically if the transmitting node is in the far or near group the receiving node can retransmit the flooding message. If the transmitting node is in the very near group the receiving node does not retransmit the flooding message. For each broadcast message received from a node in either the far or near group the network control module assigns a random delay time for relaying or rebroadcasting. The delay period for instance exhibits a distribution function based on the estimated relative radio distance as a way to randomize the delay period before transmission. The distribution should be chosen in such a way that the random delay is larger for those nodes that are near than for those that are far. This favors for instance nodes that are further away to relay the flooding message forward which results in better flooding efficiency smaller total number of transmissions . The use of a random delay time also prevents the unintended synchronization of message broadcasts as the message propagates over the ad hoc mesh network . For example unintended synchronization of the message broadcasts may result in too many nodes sending broadcasting i.e. flooding messages over the ad hoc mesh network at exactly the same time. Additionally the delay time provides an opportunity for the network control module to monitor and count rebroadcasts of the message by other neighboring wireless nodes .

The MID table contains a list of received messages. As the wireless node receives messages from neighboring nodes over the ad hoc mesh network the network control module uses the MID table to check whether the message has been received previously by for example comparing the MIDs in the MID table to that of the received message. The MID table also contains a flag indicating whether a message has been transmitted by the node and the time when the entry was last updated. In exemplary embodiments the MID is the tuple SRC MSN where SRC is the NID of the source node and MSN is a message sequence number assigned by the source node. In this way the MID is a unique identifier of each message that propagates in the network . The network control module makes an entry in the MID table for all new messages that it receives. If the message has been scheduled for transmission the module increments the message counter in the message table see Table 4 .

The message table contains messages that the network control module has scheduled to transmit. For example as the node receives a flooding message that the network control module schedules for transmission the module updates the message table to include the message in the message table . Each entry in the message table contains the message itself the time when the message is scheduled to be sent and the number of receptions of the same message by the node see Table 4 . In exemplary embodiments a message is not relayed over the ad hoc mesh network if the number of times the message has been received exceeds a predefined limit. For example a message has the initial count of 0. In this example as a wireless node in the neighborhood is observed to transmit the message the message count associated with the message is increased. When the maximum message count is reached the network control module removes the message from the message table . The transmitter of each message is also associated with an estimated relative radio distance D indicating whether the transmitting node is within close proximity of the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the very near relative radio distance group or far from the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the far relative radio distance group . If the relative radio distance associated with the transmitting node indicates that the transmission of the message occurred very near the wireless node would not have to relay the message because it is assumed for instance that most of the other neighboring wireless nodes have already received the same message. By taking into account the relative radio distances of neighboring nodes the described smart flooding functionality leads to on average each flooding message being received for a few times by each node independent of the node density. The number of times a message is received by any one node affects the scalability of the network .

If the received message however is a unicast reply message that was addressed to the receiving node the network control module checks whether the destination node can be found in the routing table e.g. can be found from the destination field in the reply message or obtained from the source field of the query by the replying node . If found the routing table entry will give the NID of the neighboring node to which the reply message will be sent in the next opportunity. If the unicast transmission is not successful the next entry for the same DST will be used as the next try. If the received message is a unicast reply message that was not addressed to the receiving node and no acknowledgment from the intended receiver node was heard the node will store the message in the message table for scheduled retransmission. It is noted that unicast messages or acknowledgement messages that are not addressed to the node are normally received D2D radio layer see discussion of the D2D radio layer below but not by the mesh network services module . However under certain circumstances the D2D radio layer can provide such messages to the mesh network services module to schedule for retransmission. For example if no successful unicast of the same message is observed by the time when the message is scheduled to be transmitted the node will transmit the unicast or acknowledgement message to the intended recipient found from the routing table associated with the message. In this way the nodes that are not the intended recipients of the reply messages can assist in routing the message forward towards the correct destination.

As shown in the mesh network services module has connectivity to a device to device D2D radio layer . The D2D radio layer enables the formation of the ad hoc mesh network and sharing of awareness information using for instance short range radio technologies such WLAN and Bluetooth . It is contemplated that the D2D radio layer may use any wireless technology for communication between devices over short ranges. The radio technology for instance enables each wireless node within the ad hoc mesh network to broadcast messages in a connectionless way to the neighboring nodes that are within radio range. As used herein the term connectionless means the wireless nodes need not use two way signaling to establish a communication channel before broadcasting a message. In exemplary embodiments the D2D radio layer may include multiple radios using one or more different technologies or protocols e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth simultaneously . A wireless node configured with multiple radios may act as a gateway node to span two or more sub networks serviced by the different wireless technologies. In this way messages broadcast on one sub network may be propagated to another sub network.

Reference is now made to a high level flowchart of the process for transmitting content to one or more nodes within a bounded area of a mesh network as used to implement an embodiment of the invention. In general a bounded area of the mesh network is specified step such as by at least one of the one or more nodes within the mesh network. As noted this bounded area can be specified based for instance on a point of interest or other location with which the user would like associate content. For example the bounded area may be specified by identifying the point of interest and a corresponding radius or area surrounding the point of interest. In addition or alternatively the bounded area may be specifying by outlining a specific area on a mapping display or other representation of the area of interest. Next content is associated with the specified bounded area step . As mentioned before the content can be generated by an augmented reality application of a given node or by any other application whose content the user wants to associated with the bounded area. Finally peer to peer transmission of the content is executed respective to one or more nodes within the bounded area over the mesh network step . Transmission is triggered by at least one node within the network such as manually or based on detected events or location information e.g. including orientation directional heading tilt angle viewpoint etc. .

Beginning with the process of a first step comprises at least one of the nodes retrieving contextual information regarding at least one of the nodes within the mesh network . The retrieved information can include but is not limited to location information directional heading data tilt angle info speed an object or object type associated with at least one of the one or more nodes or a combination thereof step . The retrieved information can also be that pertaining to the node that invoked this process.

Next the node generates a recommendation for specifying one or more locations with the bounded area based at least in part on the location the directional heading the tilt angle the speed or a combination thereof step . The content generated ultimately for enabling or enhancing the augmented reality experience can include the recommendation. Recommendations as used herein pertain to any information the informs a user within the ad hoc mesh network of any necessary adjustments alternatives or proposals that should be considered by a corresponding node within the present moment environment. Recommendations can be content based wherein the recommendation in the form of that useful for augmented reality processing. Alternatively recommendations can be rendered as instructions or contextually based intended to provide basic context information in relation to an augmented reality application . Generally the step of generating a recommendation is only necessary in response to detected content available in the bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network and or perceived adverse unexpected behavior of another node participating within the mesh network . Hence in some instances this step is not performed.

For example in the context of the hunting use case described above the recommendation may include identifying what locations are safe for the user to hunt or occupy given the distribution of nearby hunters. In the search and rescue content the recommendations may include recommending the movements of potential searchers to more efficiently cover the entire search area without unnecessarily revisiting previously search areas.

Next a message body is generated by at least one node and prepared for broadcast to the other nodes within the mesh network if any steps and respectively . The prepared message may include but is not limited to location information of one or more of the nodes specific content data header information metadata reference tags and any other data for conveyance to a receiving node within the mesh network . More specifically the message may include content intended to enable corresponding augmented reality applications e.g. video imagery textual data operable on participating nodes to convey relevant consistent useful data pertaining to the environment at hand.

In instances where a network storage device is available step as is common in the more traditional client server paradigm the message generated by the node can be transmitted to the network storage device . In one embodiment whether the message is transmitted to the network storage device is based a determination of the number of density of the nodes within the bounded area of the ad hoc mesh network . More specifically if the density of the nodes is below a predetermined threshold value the message or content is transmitted to the network storage device . In this way if the density is sufficiently low that there may not be enough nodes present to ensure the content associated with the bounded area can be maintained in the nodes then the content can be transmitted to the network storage device until for instance a sufficient density of nodes is restored. The storage device therefore serves as a data proxy through which the plurality of participating nodes access content pertaining to any of the other nodes when the content is not otherwise available directly from the nodes themselves. Of course with the concepts and teachings herein no network storage device is necessary given the presence of the ad hoc mesh network through which the nodes collaborate. So instead the message is broadcasted as a flooding message step causing it to be transmitted to all nodes within proximity of the mesh network. The augmented reality application operating in conjunction with the mesh services module is then notified of the transmission. If necessary a determination can be made as to whether to rebroadcast the message based on rebroadcast criteria e.g. counting rebroadcasts by other nodes lack of acknowledgements etc. steps and . If a broadcast is not necessary the augmented reality application notified and the process ends.

In the process of a node receives a flooding message from another over the mesh network step . Alternatively the node specifies an item e.g. an object person animal etc. to track or search for within the bounded area step . Once the specification is broadcast the node then receives one or more reports from the corresponding one or more nodes step . In response the node can receive and or aggregate one or more reports from itself or the other nodes wherein the reports relate to information associated with to the specified item. For example the report may include a message indicating an observed location directional heading speed etc. of the item which can then be shared and or compared with other reports from other nodes to track or locate the item. In another embodiment the report may include media files e.g. captured images videos audio etc. of the item. In yet another embodiment the reports may be used as part of a search function wherein multiple nodes cooperate to search of an item. Next as before location directional heading tilt angle speed an object associated with one of the nodes or a combination thereof is retrieved for the node in question step followed by a determination as to the location relative radio distance of neighboring wireless nodes step .

As a next step a determination is made as to what areas within the bounded area associated with the relevant content and or specified item were previously visited amongst the one or more nodes step based at least in part on the reports and or the information retrieved in steps and . This information is useful among other things for enabling persistent interaction and conveyance of movement activity amongst nodes over time within the bounded area. As other nodes join or exit the search area step the node can receive additional reports from the nodes within the bounded area. Accordingly a determination is performed to identify if any nodes have since exited from the bounded area step . If yes a request is sent to the responding node to remove content from the exited nodes step . If no the active node generates a recommendation for new search areas search vectors or a combination thereof step based on updated reports from the new set of nodes within the bounded area.

In certain embodiments the system can initiate or request removal of content associated a bounded area once a node containing the content exits or leaves the bounded area. As noted previously such content is typically very specific to a location and or time at the location and therefore the content may be of little value when the node is no longer within the bounded area. By initiating or suggesting removal the content the system advantageously reduces or eliminates the resource burden e.g. storage space on the device computing resources associated with storage etc. associated with storing information that may no longer be of relevance to a particular node . It is noted that when the node returns to the bounded area the node may retrieve the content from other nodes within the same bounded area to restore the content. Moreover although the exiting procedure for a node is described in the context of a search function the same exiting procedure can be applied any time a node the bounded area.

Finally the node can present the reports and or corresponding recommendations as context information for an augmented reality application other location based applications e.g. navigation applications mapping applications or the like. More specifically the augmented reality application of the node in question causes presentation of at least one of the location the directional heading the tilt angle the speed the areas within the bounded area that were previously visited the reports and the recommendation for the new search areas the search vectors or the combination thereof on a mapping user interface step . By of example the user interface can feature virtual elements in alignment with other information displayed to the user. Optionally the user can perform the steps of step again if necessary.

In summary the steps of ultimately enable the one or more nodes to collect appropriate context data generate related content transmit and receive such data and content and ultimately render such data for display amongst the plurality of nodes within the context of the shared environment.

As noted previously in one embodiment the approach described herein may be used to conduct search and or rescue operations for lost items people animals etc. In this scenario one or more of the nodes may establish a search boundary corresponding to an area of the ad hoc mesh network . In one embodiment the one or more nodes may distribute a message to enlist other nodes and or users associated with the nodes to engage in a search for a particular item. The responding nodes may then be organized as a search group in which search information is shared and associated with specific search area over the ad hoc mesh network . In one embodiment the participating nodes may be authenticated e.g. network address filtering username password biometric security etc. to ensure that only authorized nodes are able to access the search information.

Once the search is underway the locations heading speed etc. of the participating nodes can be tracked using for instance Global Positioning System GPS receivers or other location based sensors or services and then shared with the other participating nodes . In this way the already searched areas of the search perimeter are shared with other nodes and presented on for instance a mapping user interface. In one embodiment in order to reduce power consumption by the respective displays of the nodes the colors brightness etc. of the displays can be tuned accordingly.

In another embodiment the searching may be performed using one or more sensors e.g. cameras microphones heat sensors etc. that may be part of or connected to the nodes . Moreover each of the nodes may estimate the already search area and the accuracy of the estimation according to the combined data from different sensors.

In various embodiments any of several additional features may also be incorporated into the ad hoc mesh network based search use case such as 1 estimating the likelihood that the item being search for e.g. a moving item or person has escaped or left the search area based on reports of the items estimated speed and type of movement e.g. walking flying biking driving etc. 2 using the search feature as a hide and seek game 3 tracking the item using signals e.g. and or transponders 4 associating one or more of the nodes with a tracking animal e.g. a search dog 5 preregistering potential search nodes so that a search group can be quickly organized and the like.

In yet another embodiment the search function may be extended to other activities that can benefit from the ability to track previously visited areas within a larger bounded area. For example farmers can use the tracking capability to organize a group of people to harvest crops from an area of the farm. In another example census takers can track what areas have already been canvassed within a particular neighborhood. In another example health workers can track what areas have already received vaccinations medicine check ups etc.

User is presented as a virtual element representing the user associated with the smartphone while users represent users of other wireless devices who interact via the mesh network. Also represented are one or more virtual elements for depicting the area already covered by a given user. Each user s current direction is shown represented in the illustration as the smaller arrow pointing away from each respective user . While not shown expressly the user may select from various user interface buttons to engage in various ways with the data presented to the screen or to interact with other mesh network participants. Alternatively there user can select various features from the options link within the toolbar. For example the user may select a function to have the augmented reality application generate a representation of an optimal direction. This determination would be based at least in part on awareness information as obtained relative to the other user s devices context data as determined and other factors. Alternatively the determination can be persistently provided by the user device via the application without prompting. In either case as a result the optimal direction for the user is presented as bold arrow .

The processes described herein for providing augmented reality client application content to be enabled for one or more nodes within a bounded area of a mesh network may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to provide seeded modeling of user interests. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing seeded modeling of user interests. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing seeded modeling of user interests is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing seeded modeling of user interests to the UE.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide seeded modeling of user interests. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing seeded modeling of user interests. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide seeded modeling of user interests. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the invention. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated within the scope of the invention. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

