---

title: Detection and display of semantic errors in a reporting tool
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for providing a semantic guidance in a report are described herein. A mismatch is identified between a report object positioned at a location on the report and the area with which the location is associated. The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object and the attribute of the area with which the location is associated. In one embodiment, the identified mismatch is displayed to a user in a tooltip. In one embodiment, if an attribute of an area of the report is changed, the mismatch is identified between the report object present in the area and the changed attribute.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775463&OS=08775463&RS=08775463
owner: Business Objects Software Limited
number: 08775463
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20101124
---
Embodiments generally relate to computer systems and more particularly to methods and systems for identifying and displaying a mismatch between a report object and an area of a report with which the report object is associated.

Present day reporting tools such as Crystal Reports by SAP allow a business user to create reports that can retrieve format and display data from a data source database or data warehouse. These report tools allow the business user to easily add report objects to different areas of the report.

However business users typically are not aware of relationships rules that may exist and affect the semantic correctness of the placement of the report object in specific areas of the report. Also business users are not typically aware of the properties of the report object modeled in the data source. Placing the report object in the area of the report without understanding these relationships and properties may lead to the placement of the report object that may be technically correct but semantically incorrect .

Therefore a method that provides guidance to the business user when there is a mismatch between the report object and the area is desired.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for detection and display of semantic errors in a reporting tool are described herein. Metadata of a report object associated with an area of the report is retrieved. The area of the report has an attribute related to the area. A mismatch is identified between the report object and the area based on the metadata and the attribute.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for detection and display of semantic errors in a reporting tool are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Initially at block metadata of a report object associated with the area of the report is retrieved. In one embodiment the metadata includes information about the report object. For example the metadata of the report object may include information that the report object has one data value or more than one data value or the report object is flat or hierarchical or the report object is an aggregate. In one embodiment the metadata for the report object is retrieved from a data source or a web service that stores the report object and the metadata associated with the report object.

In one embodiment the report object associated with the area of the report is positioned in the area of the report. In one embodiment the report object associated with the area of the report is present in the area of the report.

The area of the report has an attribute. In one embodiment the attribute of the report refers to one or more properties specific to the area. For example the attribute of the report header footer pair area could be that it can accept a report object having only a single value. In one embodiment an attribute can be used to calculate a mismatch between a report object and an area in a report. The mismatch could be an efficiency in report processing a semantic relationship and the like. The attribute is metadata used in the creation and processing of the report or metadata designed to identify semantic errors.

Next at block a mismatch is identified between the report object and the area of the report. The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object retrieved in block and the attribute of the area with which the report object is associated.

In one embodiment the mismatch is identified between the report object newly positioned at a location on the report and the area associated with the location. In another embodiment the mismatch is identified between the report object already present in the area of the report and the area of the report.

In one embodiment a set of heuristics are used to identify the mismatch between the report object and the area with which the report object is associated. A few exemplary heuristics are described below. However other heuristics can be considered as well.

The report object may have multiple values in the group header footer area but only the first or last value will be displayed. Context This mismatch is identified when a level or an attribute report object is within a group header footer pair area. In one embodiment an attribute is defined as any non null value in a data set. In one embodiment a level is defined as a position in a hierarchy. Reason The reason for this mismatch is the level or attribute report object has multiple values within the group header footer pair area.

For example if a report object Region a level is positioned on a group header footer pair area grouped on Country Region refers to all the regions within the Country . In case the report object Region is placed in the group header footer pair area only the first region or the last region of the report object Region is displayed.

The Report Object may have multiple values in the report header but only the first value will be displayed. Context This mismatch is identified when a dimension level or attribute report object is within a report header unless the report object is used as a summarized field or grouping condition inside a chart or a crosstab. In one embodiment the dimension is defined as a line in a real or abstract space. Reason This mismatch is identified since the report object has multiple values within this context. For example when referring to the Country level within the report header Country refers to all the countries within the report. In this case only the first country will be displayed.

The report object may have multiple values in the report footer but only the last value will be displayed. Context This mismatch is identified when a dimension level or attribute report object is within a report footer unless if the report object is used as a summarized field or grouping condition inside a chart or crosstab. Reason The reason for this mismatch is that the report object has multiple values within this context. For example when referring to the Country level within the report footer Country refers to all the countries within the report. In this case only the last country will be displayed.

Only the first value on the page will be shown. Context This mismatch is identified when a dimension level or attribute is positioned within the page header.

The measure report object has no meaningful value in this location. In one embodiment the measure is defined as a quantity as ascertained by comparison with a standard usually denoted in some unit e.g. units sold dollars. Context This mismatch is identified when the measure is placed in a page header footer pair area. Reason The reason for this mismatch is that there is no aggregation context in the page header footer pair area for the measure report object to be based on.

Initially at block a report model of the report is retrieved. In one embodiment the report model is retrieved when a report is opened in a reporting tool. The report model of the report includes an attribute of the one or more areas of the report. For example the report model may include the attribute of each of the report header footer pair area the page header footer pair area the group header footer pair area and the detailed area. In one embodiment the report model is retrieved from the report.

Next at block contextual information associated with the report object is received. The contextual information includes information of a location on the report where the report object is positioned. In one embodiment the contextual information is received from a user interface via which the report object is positioned at the location on the report. In one embodiment the report object is positioned at the location on the report using a mouse cursor. In one embodiment the report object is dragged using the mouse cursor directly from the data source or the web service to the location on the report. The location on the report is associated with an area from among the one or more areas of the report. For example if the location where the report object is positioned is within the group header footer pair area then the location is associated with the group header footer pair area.

Next at block the metadata of the report object positioned at the location on the report is retrieved. In one embodiment block the metadata of the report area is retrieved without reference to the report object.

Next at block the attribute related to the area on which the report object is positioned is identified from the report model. The attribute of the area is identified from the attribute of the one or more areas of the report included in the report model retrieved at block . For example if the report object is placed at the location associated with the group header footer pair area the attribute of the group header footer pair area is identified from the attribute of the one or more areas of the report report header footer pair area page header footer pair area group header footer pair area and detailed area included in the report model.

Next at block the mismatch is identified between the report object and the area associated with the location at which the report object is positioned. The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object retrieved at block and the attribute of the area identified at block . In one embodiment the set of heuristics are used for identifying the mismatch. In one embodiment the mismatch is identified for each location on the report as the report object is dragged over the report. In one embodiment the dragging occurs some time before the mismatch is identified. For example the dragging happens and the report is saved and later after the report is reopened the mismatch is identified. In one embodiment the dragging is optional. The mismatch is identified after another action such as a redo or an undo operation.

Next at block the identified mismatch is displayed. In one embodiment the identified mismatch is displayed on a user interface. In one embodiment the identified mismatch is displayed to a user. In one embodiment the identified mismatch is displayed in a tooltip placed adjacent to the mouse cursor used for positioning the report object at the location on the report. In one embodiment the output identifying the mismatch is generated but not displayed on a user interface. This output can be displayed latter or not at all. In one embodiment the method of ends after block .

Next at block a request is received to place the report object at the location where the report object is positioned. In one embodiment the request is received via a user interface. In one embodiment the request is received from a user. In one embodiment the report object is positioned and placed on the report using a drag and drop operation.

Finally at block the mismatch identified at block between the report object and the area is displayed for the report object placed at the location. In one embodiment the report object placed at the location is ear marked to indicate the mismatch. If a mouse cursor is positioned on the report object placed in the area the identified mismatch is displayed in a tooltip.

Next at block the metadata of the report object present in the area of the report is retrieved. In one embodiment the area whose attribute is changed may include more than one report object present in the area. The metadata for each of the one more report objects present in the area is retrieved.

Next at block the mismatch is identified between the report object and the area. The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object retrieved at block and the changed attribute of the area. In case the area includes more than one report object the mismatch is identified between the area and each report object present in the area. In one embodiment the mismatch is identified based on the set of heuristics.

Finally at block the identified mismatch is displayed to the user. In one embodiment the report object is highlighted to indicate the mismatch. In one embodiment when a mouse cursor is positioned on the highlight the identified mismatch is displayed in a tooltip positioned adjacent to the mouse cursor.

The report has a grouping on Product Category. As shown in the group header footer pair area one of the product category is TrailBlazer and another product category is Pathfinders present in the Group Header .

Initially a report model of the report is retrieved block . The report model of the report includes the attribute of the one or more areas of the report i.e. the attribute of the report header footer pair area the page header footer pair area the group header footer pair area and the detailed area . The attribute of the report header footer pair area the page header footer pair area the group header footer pair area provide information that these areas can accept a report object having a single data value. The attribute of the detailed area provides information that this area can accept report object having more than one data value.

Next the contextual information associated with a report object Customer Name is received block . The contextual information of the report object Customer Name includes information of a location where the report object Customer Name is positioned.

The location of the report is associated with an area of the report . As shown the location is present within the detailed area body of the report therefore the location is associated with the detailed area of the report . In one embodiment the report object Customer Name is dragged directly from the data source and positioned at the location of the report using a mouse cursor .

Next the metadata of the report object Customer Name is retrieved block . In one embodiment the metadata of the report object Customer Name is retrieved from the report . The metadata of the report object Customer Name provides information that the report object Customer Name is a dimension that has more than one data value.

In one embodiment a dimension is defined as a line in a real or abstract space. An example of a real space dimension is the line defined by a pair oppositely pointing cardinal points on a compass e.g. North and South North Northwest and South Southeast. Another real dimension is time. An example of an abstract space dimension is a list of stores. The dimension is abstract because the list can be ordered alphabetically by name by store number by distance from head office etc. Examples of dimensions include region store year customer employee product line and the like.

Next the attribute related to the detailed area associated with the location where the report object Customer Name is positioned is identified from the report model block . As discussed above the report model includes attribute of the one or more areas report header footer pair area the page header footer pair area the group header footer pair area and the detailed area of the report . The attribute of the detailed area is identified from this attribute of the one or more areas of the report included in the report model. The attribute of the detailed area provides information that the detailed area can accept a report object having more than one data value.

Next the mismatch is identified between the report object Customer Name and the detailed area associated with the location where the report object Customer Name is positioned block . The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object and the attribute of the detailed area with which the location is associated. As discussed above the metadata of the report object Customer Name provides information that the report object Customer Name has more than one data value. The attribute of the detailed area provides information that the detailed area can accept report object having more than one data value. As the report object Customer Name has more than one data value information obtained from metadata and the detailed area can accept report object having more than one data value information obtained from attribute no mismatch is identified between the report object Customer Name and the detailed area .

The attribute of the group header footer pair area is identified from the report model of the report . The attribute of the group header footer pair area provides the following information the group header footer pair area can accept a report object having only one data value the group is grouped on product category and the group has a flat hierarchy.

Next the mismatch is identified between the report object Customer Name and the group header footer pair area block . The mismatch is identified based on the metadata of the report object Customer Name and the attribute of the group header footer pair area . As discussed above the metadata of the report object Customer Name provides information that the report object Customer Name has more than one data value. The attribute of the group header footer pair area provides information that the area can accept report objects having a single data value. As the report object Customer Name has more than one data value information obtained from metadata and the group header footer pair area can accept a report object having only one data value information obtained from attribute the mismatch is identified between the group header footer pair area and the report object Customer Name . The identified mismatch is This object may have multiple values in this context .

In one embodiment the set of heuristics are used for identifying the mismatch between the report object Customer Name and the group header footer pair area . The heuristic for identifying the mismatch would be Identified Mismatch Report Object has multiple values in the report header only first value will be displayed. Context This mismatch is identified when a dimension level or attribute report object is within a group header. Reason The report object has multiple values within this context.

Next the identified mismatch between the report object Customer Name and the group header footer pair area is displayed block . As shown the identified mismatch is displayed in a tooltip placed adjacent the cursor . As shown the mismatch displayed in the tooltip is This object may have multiple values in this context. The displayed mismatch provides the semantic guidance to the user that the report object Customer Name should not be placed in the group header footer pair area .

Next a request is received to place the report object Customer Name at the location in the group header footer pair area block . In one embodiment a user may ignore the identified mismatch displayed in the tooltip and request to place the report object at the location . In one embodiment the report object Customer Name is positioned and placed at the location of the report by the drag and drop operation using the mouse cursor .

Finally the identified mismatch between the report object Customer Name and the group header footer pair area is displayed block .

In one embodiment a delegated aggregate is defined as an aggregate that is deferred back to the data source for calculation. The context of the aggregation is provided to the data source and is retrieved. The value of the delegated aggregate Total Revenue for each product category which is the context for the delegated aggregate Revenue TrailBlazers and Pathfinders is retrieved from the data source and placed in the Group Footer group header footer pair area of the corresponding product category. illustrates the delegated aggregate Revenue value only for the product category TrailBlazers a similar delegated aggregate Revenue value would be present for the product category Pathfinders .

An input is received to change the attribute of the group header footer pair area bloc . In one embodiment the input is received from a user. The group header group header footer pair area is modified to be based on a reporting formula named priority as shown the name of the report object priority would appear in the page header page header footer pair area . The priority formula states that if the revenue is above 1000 assign a high priority 1 and if the revenue is below 1000 assign a low priority 2 .

As shown in the products City Tire Tube Mountain Tire Tube ML Mountain Tire HL Mountain Tire LL Road Tire Touring Tire Tube and Road Bottle Cage that have the sales value above 1000 are assigned a high priority 1 and the product LL Mountain Tire that has the revenue value below 1000 are assigned a low priority 2 .

Next the report is re grouped based on the reporting formula priority . illustrates the report of that is grouped based on the reporting formula priority according to an embodiment. As the group header is modified to be based on the reporting formula priority the groups are regrouped based on the priority 1 and 2 . As shown all the products that have the high priority 1 are placed in a first group that is based on the high priority 1 and all the products that have the low priority 2 are placed in a second group based on the low priority 2 .

As the object on which the report is grouped is changed from product category to priority the attribute of the group header footer pair area that includes this information i.e. the information about the object on which the report is grouped is also changed.

Next the metadata of the report object Revenue placed in the group header footer pair area is retrieved block . The metadata of the report object Revenue provides information that it is a delegated aggregate for a grouping context product category .

Next a mismatch is identified between the group header footer pair area and the report object Revenue present in the group header footer pair area block . The mismatch is identified based on the changed attribute of the group header footer pair area and the metadata of the report object Revenue . The changed attribute for the group header footer pair area provides information that the report is based on grouping over priority . As discussed above the metadata of the report object Revenue provides information that it is a delegated aggregate for a grouping context product category . The mismatch is identified as the changed attribute grouping over Priority of the group header footer pair area does not match with the metadata of the report object Revenue delegated aggregate for a grouping context product category .

In one embodiment the set of heuristics are used for identifying the mismatch. The set of heuristics for this embodiment would be Identified Mismatch The value for the delegated aggregate cannot be calculated for this group. Context The error has occurred as a delegated aggregate is inserted into a group context where the measure cannot be resolved formula another measure data custom grouping . Reason The reason for this error is that the report contains features that cannot be understood by the data source.

Due to this mismatch the value of the delegated aggregate Revenue that is based on the grouping context product category cannot be retrieved as the report is now grouped on a reporting formula Priority. When the delegated aggregate Revenue value is being retrieved for the group based on the priority i.e. for priority 1 and 2 the data source is queried to obtain the revenue value for each group the first group and the second group based on the priority. However as the data source is unaware of the context priority the delegated aggregate Revenue value present in the group footer group header footer area cannot be retrieved.

Finally the identified mismatch between the report object Revenue and the group header footer pair area is displayed block . As shown the delegated aggregate Revenue value that cannot be retrieved is highlighted with a border and an exclamation mark on the highlight.

The system includes a semantic evaluator that identifies the mismatch between the report object and the area associated with the report object. The semantic evaluator retrieves a report model of the report . The report model includes the attribute related to the one or more areas of the report . The user interface provides the contextual information related to the report object to the semantic evaluator . The contextual information provides information of the location on the report where the report object is positioned. The location on the report is associated with the area of the report. The semantic evaluator identifies the attribute related to the area from the report model i.e. from the attribute of the one or more report objects included in the report model.

The semantic evaluator retrieves the metadata of the report object from a metadata layer associated with the data source . The metadata of the report object is retrieved by the semantic evaluator through a reporting engine . Using this metadata of the report object and the attribute of the area on which the report object is positioned the semantic evaluator identifies whether a mismatch has occurred between the report object and the area on which the report object is positioned. In one embodiment the semantic evaluator uses the set of heuristics programmed into it for identifying the mismatch. The identified mismatch is finally provided to the user interface which then displays the identified mismatch to the user. In one embodiment the metadata of the layer is contained in the data source . In one embodiment the metadata is calculated at runtime during the report creation.

In case the attribute of the area is changed the semantic evaluator identifies the mismatch between the area whose attributes are changed and the report object placed in the area by comparing the changed attribute with the metadata of the report object placed in the area.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

