---

title: Bimetallic strips for energy harvesting, actuation and sensing
abstract: Disclosed are bimetallic strips that incorporate magnetostrictive materials to enhance and provide sensing, actuating and energy harvesting functions. The bimetallic strips include a positive magnetostrictive Fe-based alloy layer and a flexible layer. The flexible layer may be a negative magnetostrictive layer or a permanent magnet layer. One or more permanent magnet materials may also be used in the arrangement. The bimetallic strips are inexpensive and easily manufactured, and have characteristics that enhance sensing and actuator applications, and enables energy harvesting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07952239&OS=07952239&RS=07952239
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07952239
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100727
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 006 756 filed Dec. 19 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 834 490 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 882 259 filed Dec. 28 2006 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to bimetallic strips more particularly bimetallic strips that incorporate magnetostrictive materials to enhance and provide sensing actuating and energy harvesting functions.

Bimetallic strips have been extensively used for numerous applications in the past. Such applications include electrical mechanical actuation and temperature sensing. Typically bimetallic strips consist of two strips of different metals that have different expansion and heating characteristics. Consequently when heated the strips expand at different rates. Typically the strips are adjacently attached along their length. Because of the different expansion and heating characteristics one strip bends over the other when heated so that the bimetallic strip bends in a predictable manner. When cooled the bimetallic strip bends in the opposite direction.

Because of the above recited properties bimetallic strips are used as sensors and actuators. As a sensor a bimetallic strip can be used to detect changes in temperature heat or other environmental conditions. As an actuator a bimetallic strip may for example push a switch as it moves thereby changing the state of a system. In some applications a bimetallic strip may be provided in a linear form and in others in curved or coiled form. Generally bimetallic strips usually comprise materials such as steel and copper. However it is desirable to have bimetallic strips that are easy to manufacture and are functional in a greater number of working environments.

In one aspect the invention is a bimetallic strip. In this aspect the bimetallic strip includes a first substantially flat layer. According to the invention the first substantially flat layer includes a positive magnetostrictive material. The bimetallic strip also has a second substantially flat layer attached to the first substantially flat layer forming a dual layered strip. The second substantially flat layer has a flexible material.

In another aspect the invention is a method of energy harvesting. The method includes the providing of a bimetallic strip having a first end and a second end. The bimetallic strip further includes a first substantially flat layer having a positive magnetostrictive material. According to the method the magnetostrictive material is an Fe based alloy having FeAlwherein x is from about 5 to about 25 or FeGawherein y is from about 5 to about 35. The magnetostrictive material may also be formed of a combination of the FeAland the FeGa. The providing of the bimetallic strip further includes providing a second substantially flat layer attached to the first substantially flat layer forming a dual layered strip. According to the method the second substantially flat layer has a permanent magnet or a negative magnetostrictive material. The method further includes the attaching of the first end of the bimetallic strip to a first surface and the attaching the second end of the bimetallic strip to an inertial mass or to a second surface. In this aspect the method also includes the initiating of a changing magnetic arrangement and accompanying changing magnetic flux in the bimetallic strip by vibrating the first surface to produce a mechanical stress in the bimetallic strip. The method also includes the inducing of an AC voltage from the changing magnetic flux in a coil. This is done by wrapping the coil around the outer surface of the bimetallic strip. The associated induced current is stored or converted into a desired output form.

To maximize the performance of the bimetallic strips in operations such as energy harvesting actuating and sensing alloys having substantial amounts of the above outlined Fe based Ga and Al alloys may also be used. As such each of the above outlined Fe based alloy layers may optionally include one or more elements as small additions such as carbon C manganese Mn sulfur S beryllium Be or Tin Sn . Thus for example layer may be a combination of FeAlwherein x is from about 5 to about 25 carbon and tin. In another example layer may be a combination of FeGawherein y is from about 5 to about 35 and carbon. In yet another example layer may be a combination of FeAl wherein x is from about 5 to about 25 and FeGa wherein y is from about 5 to about 35 carbon and tin. It should be noted that the above outlined Fe based alloys for layer are merely examples and other combinations may be used.

The above outlined alloys have desirable properties such as strength durability and the ability to be welded. Additionally the Fe Al and Fe Ga based alloys have high magnetostrictive levels that are only weakly dependent on temperature. The manufacture of the above mentioned Fe based alloys can be readily accomplished because the alloys can be trained by stress annealing and or magnetic field annealing and can be inexpensively prepared.

In this embodiment the second substantially flat layer is a flexible layer. In this embodiment layer is an alloy having negative magnetostrictive properties. The second layer may be nickel Ni or an appropriate Ni alloy or any other alloy having negative magnetostrictive properties. Ni possesses a magnetostriction of about 50 ppm negative . Consequently when the second substantially flat layer is Ni the magnetostriction of the first Fe based layer can be readily magnetiostrictively matched to that of Ni by adjusting the amounts of Al or Ga. The bimetallic strip composed of the two magnetostrictively active layers and of the materials outlined above would be inexpensive. The Fe alloy as well as the Ni alloy may be prepared from bar stock rolled stock or by melt spinning techniques. The first and second layers and may be joined by means of welding brazing soldering or any other means of adhesion. Although shows the bimetallic strip being substantially rectangular the strip may have any shape associated with bimetallic strips in general. It should be noted that the size and the dimensions of the bimetallic strip and its components may vary depending on the application.

The second layer shown in is a flexible material. In this embodiment layer is a permanent magnet material. The permanent magnet material is not required to be particularly magnetically strong because fields are only required to be less than about 300 Oe. The permanent magnet material of layer provides the proper bias field for the magnetostrictive Fe based alloy. The permanent magnet may be a long thin Alnico magnet material or alternatively a thin coat of common ferrite material in a rubber like matrix. As with the embodiment of the first and second layers and may be joined by means of welding brazing soldering or any other means of adhesion. Although shows the bimetallic strip being substantially rectangular the strip may have any shape associated with bimetallic strips in general. Additionally the size and the dimensions of the strip and its components may vary depending on the application.

Step is the attaching of the first end of the bimetallic strip to a first surface . The first surface is a surface that is positioned within a vibration rich environment. For example the first surface may exist in an aircraft or automotive environment. The first surface may also be associated with a common household appliance such as a refrigerator a washing machine microwave oven. The surface may also for example be associated with industrial equipment buildings or bridges.

Step is the attaching of the second end of the bimetallic strip to a second surface . The second surface may also be a surface located within a vibration rich environment. At step the second end may also be attached to an inertial mass . Any known bonding or means of adhesive may be used to attach the strips to the respective surfaces and or mass.

Step is the initiating of a changing magnetic arrangement and accompanying changing magnetic flux in the bimetallic strip . This is accomplished by vibrating the first surface to produce a mechanical stress in the bimetallic strip. show the first surface vibrating in direction . However vibration may take place in other directions. In the second surface may be stationary or may optionally vibrate as shown by arrow . The vibrating of the surface may be initiated by mechanical means within the vibration rich environment. For example if the first surface is in an aircraft or automobile the vibrating of the surface may result from starting an engine. If for example the surface is on a bridge the vibration may result from natural means such as winds and or water currents or by other means such as the transportation of vehicles across the bridge.

Because of the manner in which the bimetallic strip is secured as shown in the strip undergoes mechanical stress due to the vibration. Because the bimetallic strip comprises magnetostrictive materials the resulting mechanical stress rearranges the magnetic makeup of the strip as well as the associated magnetic flux.

Step is the inducing of an alternating current from the changing magnetic flux. As shown in a coil a wrapped around the bimetallic strip . An alternating current is induced in the coil as a result of the changing magnetic flux of the strip which is caused by the mechanical stresses and resulting alterations in the bimetallic strip. Although the coil is shown in one orientation the coil may be positioned in other orientations to maximize the induction of the current. At step the induced current is stored via an electrical storage element. Alternatively the induced current may be converted to another desired output using the appropriate circuitry. The energy harvesting method is maximized by matching the bimetallic strip components and dimensions to the vibration amplitude and stress capability of the energy source.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the steps of described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described component system architecture or devices are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. For example the Fe based alloy for use in the bimetallic strips may not necessarily be limited to Fe Al or Fe Ga but other elements may be used for ease of alloy preparation modification of device temperature dependence and other auxiliary effects. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

