---

title: Dashboard including rules to display data
abstract: According to one example of the present invention, there is provided apparatus for displaying a dashboard display in a vehicle. The apparatus comprises a vehicle data bus interface for communicating with vehicle subsystems of a vehicle management system, a rules store for storing a set of dashboard display rules, and a dashboard display module. The dashboard display module is arranged to obtain a dashboard display definition, to determine whether the dashboard display definition is in compliance with the dashboard display rules; to obtain, where it is so determined, data from one or more of the vehicle subsystems in accordance with the dashboard display definition, and to display the obtained data in accordance with the dashboard display definition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09187038&OS=09187038&RS=09187038
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09187038
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101013
---
The interior design and layout of motor and other vehicles is largely fixed when a vehicle is manufactured. Consequently the layout and design of a vehicle dashboard including the position and design of vehicle instruments such as speedometer odometer engine rev counter and other vehicle displays and controls is generally not changeable by a vehicle owner. Interior design changes by the manufacturer on production models may require significant re design testing production line modifications re tooling supplier changes and so on. Consequently the interior designs of vehicles are seldom changed once the vehicle has been manufactured.

At the same time however people generally have an increasing desire for personalization of the objects they possess. For example in the world of mobile telephones there is a huge after market in user replaceable fashion cases and downloadable ringtones which enable a mobile telephone to be substantially personalized. Currently however vehicle interiors do not generally allow any degree of personalization.

Referring now to there is shown a simplified diagram illustrating a portion of a vehicle dashboard such as a car or lorry dashboard according to the prior art.

The dashboard comprises a console area in which are placed a number of different vehicle instruments displays and controls. As is typical in many vehicles a number of vehicle instruments and are situated on the console typically behind the vehicle steering wheel . For example the instrument may show the vehicle speed and the instrument may show the fuel reservoir level or the engine speed. The console area may also comprises a number of other instruments not shown for showing other vehicle data as well as one or more interfaces to enable the control and or monitoring of different ones of the vehicles subsystems. For example an entertainment interface enables an occupant of the vehicle to operate and or monitor the in vehicle entertainment subsystem a lighting interface enables an occupant to operate and or monitor the vehicle lighting subsystems and an air conditioning interface enables an occupant to monitor and or to control the vehicle heating and cooling subsystem. Other subsystem interfaces may also be provided.

The instruments and display for example speed odometer and fuel reserve data obtained from the vehicle data subsystem . The entertainment interface provides control signals to the in vehicle entertainment subsystem in response to user activation of elements of the interface . For example the entertainment interface may be provided by physical buttons and switches. Display information may be supplied by the in vehicle entertainment subsystem to the entertainment interface for display thereby. The lighting interface may provide physical controls by which a user can control the vehicle lighting subsystem and may also provide visual indicators for example in the form of lamps lights or other display technology showing the status of different elements of the vehicle lighting subsystem. The air conditioning interface may also provide physical controls by which a user can control the vehicle heating and ventilation subsystem and may also provide visual indications of the status of different elements of the vehicle heating and ventilation subsystem. Other interfaces not shown may be provided for visualizing the status of and controlling other vehicle subsystems .

One of the problems however with conventional vehicle dashboard design is that the instruments and interfaces and physical interfaces are built into the vehicle dashboard when the vehicle is manufactured. Electrical wires are needed between each input button or switch and each display element in each interface. Furthermore each instrument is carefully designed to ensure that its placement on the dashboard gives the operator of the vehicle a clear view of the instrument and in certain cases such as for the speedometer its size position labeling and design may in some instances be governed by laws. Accordingly access to the vehicle data bus is only intended for and is only provided for the instruments and interfaces incorporated into the dashboard when the vehicle is manufactured.

Examples of the present invention however aim to provide a level of vehicle interior personalization by making available access to at least some of the vehicles subsystems via a vehicle data access management module. In this way a user computing device such as a portable computing device may be connected to a vehicle data access management module and may subsequently receive data from and or send control signals to different ones of the vehicle subsystems through a user interface provided through the user computing device. For example in one example a display element of a user computing device may be used for displaying instruments for showing vehicle data as well for displaying and providing control interfaces. In a further example an external display may be connected to a user computing device and be used for displaying vehicle data and control interfaces. In a yet further example an external display may be connected to a vehicle computing system and be used for displaying vehicle data and control interfaces.

To ensure compliance with either manufacturer display guidelines or external regulations an enforcement engine may be provided in the user computing device to assure compliance.

Referring now to there is a shown a simplified diagram illustrating a portion of a vehicle dashboard arrangement according to an example of the present invention. In the present example a computing device is removably connected to the vehicle dashboard or other suitable part of the vehicle such that an occupant of the vehicle such as the driver may view the computing device s display . The computing device may be a computing device such as a portable computer a net book computer a slate computer a pad computer a portable radio telephone a personal digital assistant or any other type of suitable computing device.

Referring now to there is shown a simplified diagram illustrating a portion of a vehicle dashboard arrangement according to a further example of the present invention. In this example a computing device is removably connected to the vehicle dashboard or other suitable part of the vehicle. The computing device may be a computing device such as a portable computer a net book computer a slate computer a pad computer a portable radio telephone a personal digital assistant or any other type of suitable computing device. A display element is connected to the computing device through a suitable connection not shown to enable vehicle instruments and control interfaces to be displayed thereon. In at least some examples the display element is removably attachable to the console .

As shown in the display element extends across substantially the whole of the dashboard although it will be appreciated that larger or smaller displays may be used in other examples. The display element may be any suitable display including for example an LCD monitor an LED monitor a flexible display an electronic ink display a touch sensitive display a 3 dimensional display or the like.

The computing device interacts with different ones of the in vehicle subsystems to and enables a personalized or user dashboard display to be created and displayed on the display or . The personalized dashboard display may enable an occupant of the vehicle to visualize vehicle data for example in the form of graphical or textual vehicle instruments and to visualize the status of and to control different ones of the vehicle sub systems. In one example the display or generates control signals in response to the display being touched or by gestures being made on or near thereto. The display element or may thus receive user inputs which in turn may be used to control the computing device .

In one example as shown in the user dashboard display may be used to show digital versions and of conventional vehicle instruments and . The user dashboard display may be arranged for example to show other instruments and interfaces such as an air conditioning interface a GPS interface a vehicle data interfaces and so on.

Referring now to there is shown a simplified block diagram showing the removably connectable user computing device connected to a vehicle management system . Connection to the vehicle management system is controlled by a vehicle data access manager which controls and manages access to the vehicle subsystems to via the vehicle data bus .

The vehicle data access manager may in one example provide an industry standard interface that enables computing devices such as the computing device to access data from or send control signals to at least some of the vehicle subsystems to . The industry standard interface may for example define a physical connector through which the computing device connects to the vehicle management system . The industry standard interface may additionally or alternatively define for example one or more communication protocols defining how communications between the computing device and the vehicle management system are to take place. The vehicle management system may in some examples use plug and play technology to facilitate connection by different makes and types of computing device . Connection between the computing device and the vehicle data access manager may be made in any appropriate manner including wired or wireless connection.

In addition to the vehicle subsystems to mentioned above the vehicle management system additionally includes a rules data store . The rules data store stores a set of rules that govern the way the computing device handles interactions with the vehicle subsystems to as well as governing how the computing device displays data received from the vehicle subsystems to as will be described further below.

Referring now to there is shown a simplified block diagram outlining a user dashboard module of the user computing device . In one example the user dashboard module is provided by a computer program stored as described with additional reference to . The computer program is stored in a memory . A processor is coupled to the memory via a bus and executes the computer readable instructions of the computer program to provide the described user dashboard functionality as described in greater detail below. An input output module also coupled to the bus enables the processor to send data to and or receive data from for example a user interface of the computing device or from sources external thereto. A persistent storage module also coupled to the bus enables data to be stored and retrieved by the processor .

Operation of the user dashboard module according to examples of the present invention will now be described below with additional reference to . A dashboard editor and display module enables a user of the computing device to generate a user dashboard on the display of the computing device or on the external display . The dashboard editor and display module obtains via a vehicle data bus interface details of which vehicle subsystems are enabled to provide status data and or to receive control signals to the user dashboard module .

In one example the vehicle data bus interface may be provided in the form of an application programming interface API . The vehicle data bus interface may for example translate data and messages sent from the user dashboard module into a format understandable by the vehicle management system and also translate data and messages sent from the vehicle management system into a format understandable by the user dashboard module .

The dashboard editor and display module provides a suitable environment to enable a user to create a user dashboard on the computing device in any suitable manner. The dashboard editor and display module may as described further below be subsequently used to display a user dashboard.

In one example the dashboard editor and display module provides a graphical user interface GUI through which a user can create a new or edit an existing user dashboard. When creating a new user dashboard the GUI allows the user to select which vehicle data and or controls they wish to display on the display element or . Through the GUI the user may then define specific parameters that define how the visual aspects of the user dashboard are to be displayed. For example a user may select to display the current vehicle speed on the display element or . The vehicle speed may be displayed for example using an analogue or digital instrument display having user defined parameters defining instrument shape style size position color brightness behavior display units e.g. MPH or KPH etc. The user may also select to display a vehicle subsystem s interface on the display element or and may select parameters defining for example interface shape size style size position color brightness input control functionality display units etc.

The characteristics of the user dashboard may be recorded in a dashboard display definition using any suitable format for example using HTML XML or any other suitable open or proprietary format. The dashboard definition may be stored for example in a file or other suitable data structure or data container.

The user dashboard module further includes a rule management module . The rule management module obtains a set of rules that impose restrictions on different aspects of the user defined dashboard created through the dashboard editor and display module . In the current example the rules manager obtains through the vehicle data bus interface a set of rules from the rules data store in the vehicle management system . The rules manager stores the rules in an appropriate rules data store not shown .

The rules in the rules data store may impose for example the type of vehicle data displayable on a display element or and also the type of vehicle subsystems controllable through the computing device . For example the rules in the rules data store may prevent engine speed data from being displayed may impose a minimum display size of a speedometer instrument may impose where an instrument may be placed on a display may impose a style requirement on so on.

The rules may be modifiable by the computing device for example in exchange for a license key or unlock code being provided. For example a user may purchase a license key or unlock code giving the user the right to display engine speed data and may provide the key or code to the vehicle management system via the computing device . In one example the rules stored by the rules manager are modifiable. In a further example the rules stored in the vehicle rules data store are modifiable.

During the user design phase and or upon completion of the user design phase the dashboard editor and display module determines whether the user dashboard display definition complies with the current rules stored by user dashboard module . This may be achieved for example by obtaining the current rules from the rules manager and determining whether the current user dashboard display definition conforms to the obtained rules.

If any violations of the rules are determined they are indicated to the user in an appropriate manner. For example one or more messages could be displayed to the user indicating which rules have been violated and what corrections are required in order for the rules to be conformed with. In an alternative example the dashboard editor and display module may automatically make changes to the user dashboard display definition to bring it into conformity with the rules. Such modifications may include for example changing the display location of a display element changing the size of a display element changing characteristics of a display element etc.

Once a user dashboard display definition has been created in conformity with the rules it may be saved in a user dashboard store for subsequent display.

Further operation of the user dashboard module will now be described with further reference to the flow diagram of .

At the dashboard display module obtains a user dashboard display definition. The user dashboard may for example be a user dashboard display definition created by the dashboard editor and display module and stored in the user dashboard store or may be a user dashboard display definition obtained from an external source such as by downloading it from an Internet site.

The dashboard editor and display module verifies that the obtained user dashboard display definition complies with the set or sets of rules obtained by the rules manager . If any violations of the rules are determined to have occurred the dashboard editor and display module indicates details of the violation s to the user of the computing device . In a further example the dashboard display module modifies the user dashboard display definition to be in conformance with the obtained rules.

At the dashboard editor and display module obtains any data to be displayed as defined by the user dashboard display definition from the vehicle management system through the vehicle data bus interface . The dashboard editor and display module then displays the obtained vehicle data in accordance with the user dashboard display definition.

A user interface module repeatedly determines whether any user inputs have been received from the computing device . The user inputs may for example be received at the user interface module as a result of a user interaction with the computing device or as a result of a user interaction with a display element such as display or . If any user inputs are detected that relate to user inputs intended to control one of the vehicle subsystems the user interface module sends appropriate control signals or messages to the vehicle management system through the vehicle data bus interface .

In one example the dashboard editor and display module allows the modification of a user dashboard display definition whilst the user dashboard is being displayed. In this way a user may modify the user dashboard display definition by for example moving resizing hiding changing etc. dashboard items or objects displayed by the computing device through the user interface module . For example the display or may provide control signals to the user interface module in response to a user touching the display. At the dashboard editor and display module determines whether any modifications have been made to the user dashboard display definition. If any changes have been made the dashboard editor and display module checks to ensure that the modifications conform to the current rules.

At the dashboard editor and display module determines whether any changes in the rules have been made. This may be achieved in any suitable manner for example by interrogating the rules manager or by checking an appropriate flag set by the rules manager . If no rule changes have been determined the dashboard editor and display module continues to obtain and display data as described above.

If however a change in the rules has been detected the dashboard editor and display module verifies that the user dashboard display definition conforms to the updated rules.

Changes to the rules may occur for a number of different reasons. For example some rules may be applicable only during a predetermined time period or periods. For example one rule may place restrictions on the brightness of all or part of the user dashboard during the hours of darkness. Other rules for example may place restrictions based on the determined geographic location of the vehicle. For instance if a vehicle passes from a country where the law requires vehicle speeds to be displayed in miles per hour to a country where the law requires vehicle speeds to be display in kilometers per hour such a rule change may be determined through use of appropriate geo location devices not shown such as global positioning system GPS devices. In this way the rules manager may for example cause a user dashboard display to automatically switch the display format of a speedometer instruments to display the vehicle speed in kilometers per hour instead of miles per hour.

In a further example additional or alternative sets of rules may be obtained from other sources such as from a web site or from a set of rules stored in a storage medium such as a compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD flash memory or the like. The obtained set or sets of rules are stored by the rules manager in an appropriate rule data store not shown . The additional sets of rules may include for example a set of rules relating to local laws based on the geographical location of the vehicle. Where there are two or more different sets of rules the rules manager determines a prioritization between the different sets of rules. For example the rules manager may determine that rules relating to local laws take precedence over rules provided by the vehicle manufacturer and stored in the vehicle management system rules data store .

In a further example communications between the user dashboard module and the vehicle management system may be encrypted so that communication with the vehicle management system may only take place between a paired or authorized user dashboard module or computing device . Pairing or authorization may for example require the user of the computing device to enter or to provide an authorization code derived for example by performing a cryptographical operation on the vehicle identification number VIN or other unique or substantially unique vehicle identification code. In this way the manufacturer may have a reasonable degree of confidence that the user dashboard module on the computing device is enforcing the rules.

In a yet further example a vehicle management system as shown in is provided. The vehicle management system includes a vehicle dashboard manager to which may be connected a user display such as a display . The user display may for example be a touch sensitive display an LOC display a flexible display or any other suitable display type. Connection of the user display may for example be by way of any suitable connection means including both cable and wireless connections. The user display may be removably positioned in a vehicle for example on a vehicle dashboard in any suitable position as shown in .

In at least one example one or more conventional vehicle instruments or control interfaces may be provided in addition to the vehicle instruments and or control interfaces displayed on the user display . For example as shown in conventional instruments and are provided. Digital representations of the conventional instruments may also be provided on the user display as shown by digital instrument .

The vehicle dashboard manager may provide substantially the same or similar functionality to that provided by the user dashboard module as described above.

It will be appreciated that examples of the present invention can be realized in the form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Any such software may be stored in the form of volatile or non volatile storage such as for example a storage device like a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not or in the form of memory such as for example RAM memory chips device or integrated circuits or on an optically or magnetically readable medium such as for example a CD DVD magnetic disk or magnetic tape. It will be appreciated that the storage devices and storage media are examples of machine readable storage that are suitable for storing a program or programs that when executed implement examples of the present invention. Accordingly examples provide a program comprising code for implementing a system or method as claimed in any preceding claim and a machine readable storage storing such a program. Still further examples of the present invention may be conveyed electronically via any medium such as a communication signal carried over a wired or wireless connection and examples suitably encompass the same.

All of the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings and or all of the steps of any method or process so disclosed may be combined in any combination except combinations where at least some of such features and or steps are mutually exclusive.

Each feature disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

