---

title: Carbon nanofiber, production process and use
abstract: The invention relates to a carbon nanofiber containing at least iron (Fe) and vanadium (V), wherein the iron (Fe) is present in an amount of 6 mass % or less and the vanadium (V) is present in an amount of 3 mass % or less as a metal element other than carbon, wherein a graphite plane is inclined to the fiber axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08308990&OS=08308990&RS=08308990
owner: Showa Denko K.K.
number: 08308990
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101220
---
This application is a Divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 130 603 filed on May 30 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 879 261 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 924 907 filed on Jun. 5 2007 and which claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 145225 filed on May 31 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to carbon nanofiber suitable for an electrically conductive filler and to a production method and use thereof.

Conventionally it has been known that an electrically conductive resin composite material wherein electrical conductivity is imparted can be obtained by incorporating an electrically conductive filler such as carbon black carbon fiber and metal powder to a matrix resin such as thermosetting resin and thermoplastic resin.

However it is necessary to add considerable amount of electrically conductive filler to impart high conductivity preferably volume resistivity of 1 10 cm or less to such kind of composite materials which adversely affected physical properties of the matrix resin and resulted in a problem that the prepared composite material cannot exert the innate characteristics of the resin.

Therefore a filler material has been demanded which enables to impart high conductivity even in small blending quantity.

As such an electrically conductive filler material Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 360099 discloses a fish bone type carbonaceous microfiber body having excellent kneadability with resin and excellent electroconductivity.

The above mentioned fish bone type carbon fiber indicates the one having a structure in which a graphite network plane is inclined to the fiber axis. Other carbon fiber in which a graphite network plane is almost perpendicular to the fiber axis and carbon fiber which is not hollow are also known and generally they are collectively referred to as carbon nanofiber.

On the other hand carbon nanotubes having a structure in which a graphite network plane is approximately parallel to the fiber axis have also been extensively studied.

As a method for producing such carbon nanotubes a method by chemical vapor deposition hereinafter referred to as CVD method is known including a method using catalyst metal supported on a support and a method using organic metal complex and the like as a catalyst without a support wherein catalyst metal is vapor deposited in a reaction system.

The carbon fiber disclosed by Patent Document 1 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 360099 has a considerable amount of residues of catalyst components which is calculated according to the Examples described in the document. In this way when a resin composite material contains a considerable amount of impurities it results in a problem of significant degradation of physical properties such as mechanical strength of the composite material because the impurities enhances decomposition of the resin during the molding process.

Among the above mentioned CVD methods in a latter method of using an organic metal complex and the like as a catalyst the graphite layer had lots of defects and when added as an electrically conductive filler it sometimes failed to impart conductivity without performing high temperature treatment. Consequently it was difficult to produce a composite material at low cost. The former method of using a catalyst support can be divided broadly into two methods i a method using a substrate as a support and ii a method using a support in powder form. The method i using a substrate is widely used in the laboratory since the size of the catalyst metal can be controlled by applying various film forming technologies. For example Chemical Physics Letters 374 2003 pages 22 228 discloses that a multiwall nanotube or a double walled nanotube in a shape of a tube having a fiber diameter of about 10 to 20 nm can be obtained by using a substrate comprising a 10 nm thick aluminum film a 1 nm thick iron film and a 0.2 nm thick molybdenum film formed onto a silicon substrate. In order to use the carbon nanotubes obtained by this method for a resin composite material the carbon nanotubes are needed to be separated from the substrate and recovered. Thus recovered carbon nanotubes substantially contain only the catalyst metal component as an impurity but the method is not very efficient in producing carbon nanotubes and large quantity of the catalyst metal component often remains. Furthermore to use this method industrially it is necessary to lay out a number of substrates to gain a sufficient surface area of the substrates. Thus the method suffers not only from low equipment efficiency but also from the disadvantage that a number of steps such as making the catalyst metal supported on the substrate synthesizing carbon nanotubes and recovering carbon nanotubes from the substrate are required. Accordingly the method is not economical and has not reached practical use.

On the other hand in the method ii using a support in powder form a larger specific surface area can be attained than in a method using a substrate. Therefore the method enables not only high equipment efficiency but also the use of reaction equipment used for various chemical syntheses which results in an advantage that the continuous reaction becomes possible as well as a production method on the premise of a batch process as in a method using a substrate. However it is difficult to obtain highly pure carbon fiber in this method because the catalyst support comes to be mixed in the product due to the characteristics of the synthesis method.

Accordingly in order to reduce the amount of the impurity methods such as 1 a method comprising heat treatment at a high temperature and 2 a method of washing and removing the impurity with acid and alkali are known. However both of the methods comprise an involved process and therefore are not economical. Particularly in the case of washing and removing the impurity with acid and alkali since the catalyst support and catalyst metal in the carbon nanotubes are often coated with a carbon film it is often difficult to remove the impurity completely without removing the carbon film by using an oxidative acid such as nitric acid or by performing partial oxidation. However the use of such an oxidative acid may cause damage or defect not only to the support and the carbon film on the catalyst surface but also to the carbon nanotube itself which may degrade the conductivity and the mechanical strength.

Furthermore as a method for reducing the impurity derived from the catalyst support it is known to use carbon such as commercially available graphite and activated carbon as a support for example Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 292227 . However since carbon is produced in small quantities in this method the impurity derived from the catalyst metal increases and therefore highly pure carbon fiber cannot be obtained.

Accordingly a method of subjecting the carbon support to oxidation treatment in advance using hydrogen peroxide and nitric acid is disclosed in order to increase carbon fiber production Applied Catalysis A 283 2005 137 . However the method is not economical since the process also becomes complicated. Moreover the reduction of the impurity was not necessarily enough.

Published Japanese Translation of PCT Publication No. 2006 502953 WO2004 035882 discloses that the carbon nanofiber having carbon content of 95 mass or more by using specific carbon black having total amount of oxygen of 10 mass or more. However as the present inventors indicate in the Comparative Example described hereinafter the resin composite material does not exhibit sufficient conductivity when the filler prepared using such a specific carbon support was added thereto.

In order to enhance the carbon fiber production elements such as iron nickel and cobalt are generally used as a catalyst. In addition a method of adding other fiber metal as a promoter has also been widely developed for example Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 26626 .

However the generation efficiency of the carbon fiber and the characteristics of the filler greatly vary depending on the combination of a catalyst a promoter and a catalyst support hydrocarbon used as a carbon source and reaction conditions and there has not been sufficient disclosure with respect to each combination.

That is inexpensive carbon fiber filler has not been developed so far which does not substantially contain metal elements as an impurity i.e. metal elements other than Fe and V and enables the resin composite material to exhibit conductivity when added thereto in a small amount.

Consequently an objective of the present invention is to provide inexpensive carbon fiber filler material which does not substantially contain metal elements as an impurity i.e. metal elements other than Fe and V and enables the resin composite material to exhibit conductivity when added thereto in a small amount.

As a result of intensive studies the present inventors have found a carbon nanofiber as a high performance conductive filler and a production method thereof and accomplished the present invention based on the finding.

1. Carbon nanofiber containing iron Fe of 6 mass or less and vanadium V of 3 mass or less as a metal element other than carbon which does not substantially contain metal elements other than Fe and V.

2. A method for producing carbon nanofiber characterized in contacting a catalyst in which Fe and V are supported on a carbon support and a carbon containing compound at a temperature of 400 to 1100 C.

3. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein the specific surface area of the carbon support is 30 to 500 m g.

4. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein the carbon support is carbon black having specific surface area of 500 m g or more subjected to heat treatment at 2000 to 3000 C.

5. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein the catalyst having an iron concentration of 5 to 30 mass is used when the iron concentration in the catalyst is calculated by the following formula iron mass iron mass support mass 100 mass Equation 1 6. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above using a catalyst wherein a vanadium concentration in the catalyst is 20 to 100 mol based on the number of moles of the iron. 7. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein the carbon containing compound is at least one member selected from CO CO aliphatic hydrocarbon and aromatic hydrocarbon. 8. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein the carbon containing compound is ethylene. 9. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 2 above wherein a carrier gas is used in addition to the carbon containing compound. 10. The method for producing carbon nanofiber as described in 9 above wherein the carrier gas is a gas containing hydrogen. 11. Carbon nanofiber obtained by a method described in any one of 2 to 10 above. 12. A composite material of carbon nanofiber and resin wherein the carbon nanofiber described in 1 or 11 above is blended into resin. 13. A container for electric or electronic devices using the composite material of carbon nanofiber and resin described in 12 above. 14. An electroconductive slide member using the composite material of carbon nanofiber and resin described in 12 above. 15. An electroconductive and thermally conductive member using the composite material of carbon nanofiber and resin described in 12 above.

According to the present invention carbon nanofiber suitable for use in a filler for conductive resin can be obtained. Since the carbon nanofiber in the preferred embodiment of the present invention can impart high conductivity to a resin in a smaller additive amount than in conventional cases it enables to obtain conductive resin composite material containing a small amount of metal element impurity at low cost.

The carbon nanofiber in the preferred embodiment of the present invention has a structure in which a graphite plane is inclined to the fiber axis. The angle made by the fiber axis and the graphite plane is measured from the transmission electron microscope TEM image see . The angle is not particularly limited but preferably 15 to 90 more preferably 30 to 70 .

Thus due to the inclination of the graphite plane to the fiber axis the carbon nanofiber has a number of active sites on the surface compared to tubular fiber wherein the angle is approximately 0 and therefore enhances the interaction with the resin when used as a filler in the resin. Accordingly improvement in dispersion and adhesiveness can be expected i.e. dispersion of the filler may be improved and the interface strength with resin may be enhanced. As a result the filler can expect sufficient functional improvement even in a small additive amount when made into a composite material and therefore is economical.

The center of the fiber may be hollow. Or the fiber filaments may be connected to each other in spots in the center or may be totally connected without a hollow portion in the center.

The above mentioned carbon nanofiber is characterized in that it does not substantially contain metal elements as impurities i.e. metal elements other than Fe and V except iron of 6 mass or less preferably 3 mass or less more preferably 1 mass and vanadium of 3 mass or less preferably 2 mass or less more preferably 1 mass or less as metal elements. Here the metal elements indicate all the elements except for H N O S F Cl Br I He Ne Ar Kr Xe Rn and carbon in the periodic table.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention a catalyst in powder form is used in which Fe and V as a metal catalyst are supported on a carbon support in a specific powder form as described hereinafter. The carbon fiber produced thereof may contain the carbon support besides the metal elements of iron and vanadium.

When carbon nanofiber is added as a filler to a resin it may be exposed to a high temperature at the time of kneading with resin molding and curing depending on the kind of the resin and the molding method. In such a case the deterioration of the resin and defects in curing may be caused due to the remaining metal impurity. Also there are concerns about degradation of the mechanical strength and characteristics with time due to the remaining metal impurity or efflux of the metal impurity as ion impurity during the use of the product after molding. Therefore it is desirable to reduce the amount of the impurity in the carbon nanofiber as much as possible.

Meanwhile the carbon support has little effect compared to the other metal elements because it remains only in a small amount and has similar characteristics with those of the produced carbon fiber in many cases.

The method for analyzing the metal elements is not particularly limited but ICP AES inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry analysis is preferably used. The pretreatment method of the samples is not particularly limited and preferably the carbon nanofiber decomposed by sulfuric acid and nitric acid is dissolved by adding phosphoric acid. Here not substantially containing the other metal elements usually means that the content of the metal elements is less than 100 ppm.

The method for making iron and vanadium supported on the carbon support is not particularly limited. For example an oxide and a salt of metal can be supported on a support by impregnating a support with a nonaqueous solution such as a methanol solution or an aqueous solution in which iron salt and vanadium salt are dissolved and dispersing and mixing the support sufficiently followed by drying. Alternatively iron and vanadium may be dissolved in a separate solution to impregnate a support with each solution so as to make an oxide and a salt of metal supported thereon. Iron and vanadium from a solution containing iron and vanadium may be precipitated onto a support.

An iron material used here is not particularly limited. However in view of ease of preparation of a metal salt solution used in the above described method inorganic acid salt such as iron nitrate iron acetate iron sulfate and alum complex salt such as acetylacetonato complex a halide such as iron chloride iron bromide and iron fluoride and organic acid salt such as iron oxalate and iron stearate can be suitably used.

A vanadium material used here is not particularly limited. However in view of ease of preparation and the cost of a metal salt solution used in the above described method oxide salt such as vanadate and vanadyl salt chloride salt such as vanadium chloride oxide such as vanadium oxide and complex salt such as acetylacetonate analogous complex can be suitably used.

A suitable example of a carbon support preferably has a specific surface area of 30 to 500 m g more preferably 60 to 500 m g most preferably 100 to 300 m g. Use of a carbon support having a large specific surface area is preferable since a larger amount of iron can be minutely supported thereon which enables to increase the yield. However when the specific surface area of the carbon support is too large it may tend to lower the electroconductivity of a resin composite material produced thereof.

Still another example of the carbon support preferably has a graphitic surface. A carbon support having a graphitic surface with few surface functional groups is preferable than that having high oxygen content and surface functional groups.

As a more specific example a carbonaceous material such as carbon black having high specific surface area a carbonaceous material subjected to heat treatment at 2000 to 3000 C. under an inert gas atmosphere and swarf of a graphite electrode are preferable. Most preferable is the carbon black having specific area of 500 m g or more subjected to heat treatment at 2000 to 3000 C. Here carbon black collectively means carbon powder in fine particles and aggregates thereof including the one obtained by a thermal decomposition method such as the acetylene method and the thermal method the one obtained by an incomplete combustion method represented by furnace black and ketjen black.

Conventionally a support generally regarded as highly active has been mainly used e.g. a highly active support having an extremely high specific surface area such as activated carbon and the one further subjected to surface modification. The present invention enables to use a carbon support having a low surface activity and a medium level specific surface area or a support having a graphitic surface comprising few or no surface functional group. Generally the level of carbon fiber production is not so high when such a low active support is used. However the present invention has succeeded in increasing the catalyst activity by selecting specific catalyst metal components of Fe and V for such a low active support.

In cases of a conventional use of a highly active carbon support it tends to cause deposition of impurities such as carbon particles onto the produced carbon nanofiber or deposition of amorphous carbon on the fiber surface or between the fiber which may be because the decomposition of hydrocarbon or production of the intermediate is promoted on the surface of the carbon. Therefore it was often necessary to increase the additive amount of the filler to attain desired characteristics which may be due to the low dispersibility when used as a resin filler or due to inferior property of the fiber itself.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention by using a support having less activity it is possible to prevent the functional decline of the carbon nanofiber or the material containing the carbon nanofiber due to the above mentioned by product carbon.

When a method for preparing a catalyst of the present invention is used it is often the case that the catalyst metal exists as a precursor thereof such as a metal salt complex or oxide before the initiation of the reaction. Therefore generally the catalyst precursor is first reduced to catalyst metal by performing reduction treatment or the like before the initiation of the reaction with hydrocarbon. However with respect to the carbon support having an active carbon surface used in the conventional art the catalyst precursor may be reduced in some cases due to the reduction action of the carbon itself without intentionally performing a reduction treatment. Accordingly it enables to produce carbon fiber using fine metal catalyst particles by combining appropriate carbon source and reaction conditions.

Meanwhile the particle size of the catalyst metal may greatly influence the production mechanism of the carbon fiber produced thereof. The use of fine catalyst metal particles tends to result in production of tubular carbon nanotubes in which the above mentioned is approximately a zero degree angle while the use of larger catalyst metal particles is likely to produce the carbon fiber in which a graphite plane is inclined or perpendicular to the fiber axis. Furthermore the catalyst metal particles may be reduced at a temperature region lower than the reaction temperature depending on the combination of the carbon source and reaction conditions and in such a case the highly active catalyst metal particles grow too much through aggregation with each other and fail to function as a catalyst for producing carbon nanofiber which tends to hardly produce a carbon component or to produce only carbon other than fiber such as amorphous carbon.

Thus since carbon fiber is produced from fine particles of the catalyst metal when the above mentioned carbon support having an active carbon surface is used it often results in the production of tubular type fiber. The carbon nanofiber as one preferred embodiment of the present invention in which a graphite plane is inclined to the fiber axis has strong interaction with resin when used as a filler material compared to the tubular type carbon fiber and therefore enables to enhance the physical properties of the resin.

As described above the particle size of the catalyst metal can be appropriately adjusted in the present invention by adding vanadium and selecting an appropriate carbon support and as a result it is presumed that the fiber in which a graphite plane is inclined to the fiber axis is readily produced.

In the present invention the iron concentration in the catalyst to produce carbon nanofiber is 5 mass or more preferably 5 to 30 mass particularly preferably 5 to 20 mass when obtained from the formula iron mass iron mass support mass 100 mass Equation 1 When the iron concentration is less than 5 mass it tends to result in an extremely low yield. On the other hand the yield does not increase indefinitely but have a limit even if the iron concentration is arranged too high. Therefore an excessively high iron concentration is likely to increase the impurity concentration in the product.

Preferred additive amount of vanadium is 20 to 100 mol more preferably 20 to 80 mol most preferably 40 to 80 mol to the amount of iron. If the additive amount of vanadium is less than 20 mol it is likely to lower the conductivity when added to the resin. If the additive amount exceeds 100 mol it tends to decrease the production of carbon nanofiber.

In the present invention a carbon containing compound is not particularly limited. As a carbon containing compound CCl CHCl CHCl CHCl CO CO CSand other organic compounds can be used generally. Particularly useful compounds include CO CO aliphatic hydrocarbon and aromatic hydrocarbon. Besides a carbon compound comprising elements such as nitrogen phosphorous oxygen sulfur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine can also be used.

Preferred examples of the carbon compound include inorganic gas such as CO and CO alkane such as methane ethane propane butane pentane hexane heptane octane alkene such as ethylene propylene and butadiene alkine such as acetylene monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene toluene xylene and styrene polycyclic compounds having a condensed ring such as indene naphthalene anthracene and phenanthrene cycloparaffin such as cyclopropane cyclopentane and cyclohexane cycloolefine such as cyclopentene cyclohexene cyclopentadiene and dicyclopentadiene and alicyclic hydrocarbon compounds having a condensed ring such as steroid. Furthermore derivatives containing oxygen nitrogen sulfur phosphorous halogen and the like in addition to the above hydrocarbons can be used i.e. an oxygen containing compound such as methanol ethanol propanol and butanol a sulfur containing aliphatic compound such as methylthiol methylethylsulfide and dimethylthioketone a sulfur containing aromatic compound such as phenylthiol and diphenylsulfide a sulfur or nitrogen containing heterocyclic compound such as pyridine quinoline benzothiophene and thiophene and halogenated hydrocarbon such as chloroform carbon tetrachloride chloroethane and trichloroethylene. Also natural gas gasoline heating oil heavy oil creosote oil kerosene turpentine oil camphor oil pine oil gear oil and cylinder oil can be used though they are not a single substance. A mixture thereof can also be used.

More preferable carbon compound include CO methane ethane propane butane ethylene propylene butadiene acetylene benzene toluene xylene and mixture thereof.

In the production of the carbon nanofiber of the present invention it is recommended to use carrier gas in addition to the above mentioned carbon compounds. As the carrier gas hydrogen nitrogen carbon dioxide helium argon krypton or mixed gas thereof can be used. However a gas comprising an oxygen molecule i.e. oxygen in molecular state O such as air is not suitable. The precursor compound of the catalyst used in the present invention may sometimes be in an oxidized state and in such a case it is preferable to use a hydrogen containing gas as a carrier gas. Accordingly the carrier gas is the gas preferably containing hydrogen of 1 vol or more more preferably 30 vol or more most preferably 85 vol or more for example 100 vol hydrogen or a gas obtained by diluting hydrogen with nitrogen.

In the present invention it is desirable to perform reduction treatment before the carbon containing gas is provided. The reduction treatment can be carried out by retaining the catalyst precursor in a reducing gas such as hydrogen.

Though the temperature and time for performing such reduction treatment cannot be uniformly defined depending on the kind of the support to be used contact efficiency with the reducing gas and the kind of the reducing gas the reduction temperature is preferably 300 to 1000 C. time for reduction is preferably from ten minutes to five hours and a longer time for reduction is desirable in the case of reduction at a low temperature. More preferably reduction temperature is 500 to 700 C. and time for reduction is 10 to 60 minutes.

In the reduction treatment both of excessive reduction and insufficient reduction may result in failure to keep the catalyst metal particles in an appropriate size. The preferable size of the catalyst metal particles can be determined by the measurement of the transmission electron microscope TEM image see . Generally the size is preferably about 5 to 100 nm more preferably about 5 to 50 nm most preferably 10 to 40 nm.

With respect to the above mentioned carbon containing compound in liquid or solid state at room temperature it is preferable to introduce the compound after being evaporated by heating. The supply of the carbon containing gas varies depending on the catalyst to be used carbon source and reaction conditions and therefore cannot be uniformly determined. However the preferred range is generally 10 to 90 vol more preferably 30 to 70 vol when obtained from the following equation flow rate of carbon containing gas flow rate of the carrier gas flow rate of carbon containing gas 100 Equation 2 

Particularly when the carbon containing gas is ethylene the range of 30 to 90 vol is most preferable.

In the present invention the temperature at which a catalyst is contacted with a carbon containing compound to produce carbon nanofiber varies depending on the carbon source to be used and the like but generally 400 to 1100 C. preferably 500 to 800 C. When the ethylene is used as a material the temperature is 400 to 800 C. preferably 500 to 640 C. most preferably 520 to 600 C. When the temperature is too low or too high it may extremely decrease the fiber production. Also at a high temperature such that a substance other than carbon nanofiber is produced nonconductive substances are likely to attach onto the surface of the carbon fiber which is not suited to applications of carbon nanofiber for the use in resin.

One characteristic of the carbon nanofiber in the preferred embodiment of the present invention may be simply referred to as carbon fiber hereinafter is that it shows sufficient electroconductivity when used as a filler without a step of graphitization at a high temperature. Naturally it is also possible to further improve the electroconductivity by performing graphitization treatment at a high temperature.

A compounded resin can be prepared by blending the carbon fiber in a preferred embodiment of the present invention into resin and kneading them. The additive amount of the carbon fiber used in a compounded resin is preferably 1 to 30 mass . If the additive amount is less than 1 mass it is difficult to make sufficient electrically conductive paths and thermally conductive path in the compounded resin. On the other hand if carbon fiber is added in a high concentration exceeding 30 mass it is likely to cause the property loss of the resin.

The resin to be used for the resin composite material in the preferred embodiment of the present invention is not particularly limited but thermosetting resin photocuring resin or thermoplastic resin is preferable.

As thermosetting resin for example polyamide polyether polyimide polysulphone epoxy resin unsaturated polyester resin phenol resin and the like can be used. As thermoplastic resin nylon resin polyethylene resin polyamide resin and polyester resin polycarbonate resin polyarylate resin and the like can be used.

The resin composite material in which carbon fiber is blended in the preferred embodiment of the present invention can be suitably employed as a molding material for producing articles which require impact resistance and conductivity or antistatic property e.g. OA apparatuses electronic apparatuses conductive packaging parts conductive sliding members conductive thermal conducting members antistatic packaging parts and automobile parts to be coated with static coating. These articles may be produced through any conventionally known molding method of conductive resin compositions. Examples of the molding methods include injection molding blow molding extrusion sheet molding heat molding rotational molding lamination molding and transfer molding.

Also the carbon fiber according to the present invention is applicable to an additive for a battery and an electrode material for capacitors and to a support for various catalysts.

Hereinafter the present invention is described in further detail in reference to examples and comparative examples but should not be construed as being limited thereto.

iron nitrate nonahydrate special grade chemicals manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. ammonium metavanadate special grade chemicals manufactured by Kanto Chemical Co. Inc. ammonium tungstate para pentahydrate manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. chromium nitrate nonahydrate manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. ammonium molybdate manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. carbon black Show Black MAF manufactured by Cabot Corporation Carbon Black BP 2000 manufactured by Cabot Corporation Carbon Black 3050 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Ketjen Black EC 300J manufactured by Ketjen Black International Company Ltd. UF G5 manufactured by Show Denko K.K. VGCF registered trademark manufactured by Showa Denko K.K. activated carbon Darco G60 reagent manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. Denka Black manufactured by Denki Kagaku Kogyo K.K. and methanol special grade chemicals manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. 

A predetermined amount of the carbonaceous material was charged in a graphite crucible and subjected to heat treatment at 2800 C. in an argon gas for 30 minutes. The obtained sample was crushed and used for preparing a catalyst.

A predetermined amount of iron nitrate nonahydrate was dissolved into methanol and a predetermined amount of ammonium metavanadate was dissolved thereto. The resultant was delivered by drops onto a support and kneaded to obtain paste. The paste was dried under reduced pressure at 100 C. for four hours and crushed to thereby obtain a catalyst.

Here the predetermined amount additive amount of iron nitrate was determined so as to satisfy the following equation iron mass iron mass support mass 100 iron mass Equation 3 With respect to the predetermined amount additive amount of ammonium metavanadate the requirement is calculated from the above mentioned iron mass and number of moles. Synthesis of Carbon Nanofiber 

Ten quartz boats 2 centimeters wide bearing a catalyst were allocated in a horizontal reacting furnace of about 40 cm provided in the center of a quartz tube having an inner diameter of 3.2 cm 1 m in length and nitrogen was passed through at 500 ml minute. The quartz tube was placed in an electric furnace and heated for one hour so that the center temperature reached a predetermined temperature followed by being kept at a predetermined temperature for 30 minutes. Next the gas was switched to hydrogen with 500 ml minute and the furnace was kept for another 30 minutes. Subsequently the gas was switched to ethylene with 250 ml minutes and hydrogen with 250 ml minute in the case where ethylene concentration is 50 vol and the furnace was kept for a predetermined time and then the gas was switched to hydrogen with 500 ml minute and the furnace was cooled to room temperature.

2 g of carbon fiber and Ripoxy resin B 806 manufactured by Showa Highpolymer Co. Ltd. in total of 50 g and 2.5 g of benzoyl peroxide mixture containing 35 mass thereof manufactured by Sigma Aldrich Japan were weighed on the defoaming mixer Awatori Rentaro trade name manufactured by THINKY Corporation and mixed at agitating mode 2000 rpm for three minutes and at defoaming mode 2200 rpm for three minutes. The obtained mixture was placed in a stainless form 100 millimeters square and 2 millimeters thick and cured in an oven at 150 C. for three hours to thereby obtain a thermosetting resin composite material containing carbon nanofiber on the plate.

The surface resistivity was measured using LORESTA GP low resistivity meter and HIRESTA UP high resistivity meter manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation.

Using a catalyst wherein 20 mass of iron and 80 mol of vanadium based on iron were supported on a support obtained by heat treating Ketjen Black EC 300J at 2800 C. ethylene used as a material was reacted with the catalyst at 540 C. for one hour. Carbon nanofiber of 20 to 50 nm in diameter having a herringbone structure was confirmed by observing the obtained product under transmission electron microscope TEM see and . As a result of analysis by ICP AES 0.7 mass or Fe and 0.3 mass of V were detected and the metal elements other than Fe and V were less than 100 ppm.

Using the obtained carbon fiber and thermosetting resin Ripoxy resin B 806 manufactured by Showa Highpolymer Co. Ltd. a resin composite material containing 4 mass of carbon nanofiber was produced. The property surface resistance of the obtained resin composite material was 3 10 g see Table 1 . The resin composite material exhibited conductivity by addition of carbon nanofiber in an amount of as small as 4 mass .

Comparative Examples were carried out in the same way as Example 1 except that molybdenum ammonium modybdate chromium chromium nitrate tungsten ammonium tungstate were used instead of vanadium. The results are shown in Table 2.

As seen from Table 2 the products of Ketjen black EC 300J subjected to graphitization treatment at 2800 C. on which Fe Mo Fe Cr or Fe W was supported failed to exhibit electric conductivity as shown in Example 1.

Carbon nanofiber was synthesized in the same way as in Example 1 except that the carbon support as in Table 3 was used Example 2 Carbon black Show Black MAF manufactured by Cabot Corporation Example 3 Denka Black manufactured by Denki Kagaku Kogyo K.K. Example 4 Carbon Black BP 2000 manufactured by Cabot Corporation Example 5 product of Ketjen Black manufactured by Ketjen Black International Company Ltd. subjected to heat treatment at 2800 C. Example 6 UF G5 manufactured by Show Denko K.K. high grade artificial graphite fine particles subjected to heat treatment at 3000 C. Example 7 VGCF registered trademark manufactured by Showa Denko K.K. graphitized product by heat treatment at 2800 C. Comparative Example 4 Ketjen Black EC 300J manufactured by Ketjen Black International Company Ltd. and Comparative Example 5 activated carbon Darco G60 manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. Thermosetting resin composite materials were prepared by using the carbon nanofiber and their property surface resistance was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 3.

A highly pure resin composite material exhibiting high electric conductivity was obtained by using a support having a specific surface area 13 to 190 m g and a support subjected to heat treatment at 2800 C. Examples 4 to 7 . On the other hand the electric conductivity was lowered when the specific surface area of the support was too large Comparative Examples 4 to 5 .

The specific surface area shown in the tables is the value measured by means of BET method specific surface analyzer NOVA 1200 manufactured by Yuasa Ionics Inc. after vacuum deaeration at 300 C. for 20 minutes.

In the same way as in Example 1 of Published Japanese Translation of POT Publication No. 2006 502953 Patent Document 3 the comparative example was carried out by preparing a catalyst in which Fe and Ni are supported on a support made from Carbon Black 3050 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. The result in Table 3 showed that the obtained composite material had lower electric conductivity.

Carbon nanofiber was synthesized in the same way as in Example 2 using a catalyst wherein Fe and V are supported on a support made of carbon black Show Black MAF manufactured by Cabot Corporation except that the reaction temperature was set to 440 to 690 C. Thermosetting resin composite materials were prepared by using the carbon nanofiber and their property surface resistance was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 4.

In the reaction using ethylene as carbon source little or no carbon nanofiber was produced at a reaction temperature of 440 C. Also the higher the reaction temperature the lower the electric conductivity of the composite material obtained thereof at 690 C. in Comparative Example 8 .

Carbon nanofiber was synthesized in the same way as in Example 2 except that the ethylene concentration was changed to 10 to 98 vol . Thermosetting resin composite materials were prepared by using the carbon nanofiber and their property surface resistance was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 5.

In cases when the ethylene concentration was 30 to 90 vol the obtained thermosetting resin composition material showed electric conductivity as high as 7 10to 2 10 . However when the concentration was 10 vol or 98 vol which was out of the above mentioned range the electric conductivity was lowered Comparative Examples 9 to 10 .

Carbon nanofiber was synthesized in the same way as in Example 2 except that a catalyst was used in which the amount of supported Fe was adjusted to 1 to 40 mass . Thermosetting resin composite materials were prepared by using the carbon nanofiber and their property surface resistance was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 6.

In cases when the catalyst on which Fe was supported in an amount of 5 to 40 mass was used the obtained thermosetting resin composition material showed electric conductivity as high as 4 10to 8 10 . However when the amount of supported Fe was 1 vol the electric conductivity was lowered Comparative Example 11 5 10 .

Carbon nanofiber was synthesized in the same way as in Example 15 except that a catalyst was used in which the additive amount of vanadium was adjusted to 10 to 150 mol based on iron. Thermosetting resin composite materials were prepared by using the carbon nanofiber and their property surface resistance was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 7.

In cases when the catalyst having vanadium in an additive amount of 20 to 100 mol based on iron was used the obtained thermosetting resin composition material showed electric conductivity as high as 3 10to 10 . However when the additive amount of vanadium was 10 mol Comparative Example 12 or 150 mol Comparative Example 13 which was out of the above mentioned range the composite material showed low electric conductivity.

