---

title: Method for enzymatic production of decarboxylated polyketides and fatty acids
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods of preparing alkenes from beta-hydroxy or beta-sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivatives using thioesterase and optionally a sulfotransferase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08765431&OS=08765431&RS=08765431
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08765431
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
The benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 227 987 filed Jul. 23 2009 is claimed and the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under DK042303 and CA108874 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Curacin A is a mixed polyketide non ribosomal peptide with antimitotic properties produced by the marine cyanobacterium 4 . The hybrid polyketide synthase PKS non ribosomal peptide synthase NRPS biosynthetic pathways that produces curacin A 5 contains numerous unique chemical steps many of which have been previously investigated 1 3 6 22 . The synthesis of a terminal alkene instead of the carboxyl typical for this class of linear natural products and the unique domain arrangement in the terminal PKS module are mysteries yet to be fully elucidated.

In CurM the terminal module a sulfotransferase ST and thioesterase TE domain follow the acyl carrier protein ACP . STs catalyze the transfer of a sulfate group from the donor 3 adenosine 5 phosphosulfate PAPS to a hydroxyl or amine of their acceptor small molecule or protein 10 . STs are involved in vital processes such as detoxification hormone regulation and signaling and have been studied in a wide variety of organisms. However the ST in the curacin pathway is the first observation of a ST within a PKS module and contains low 15 sequence identity to other studied STs.

The TE although identifiable as a thioesterase does not resemble any of the previously established fatty acid synthase FAS PKS or NRPS TE families 24 . Many PKS offloading TEs have been studied to date including the TEs of the pikromycin synthase Pik 25 26 and erythromycin synthase DEBS 27 pathways. PKS offloading TEs typically perform either hydrolysis to produce a carboxylic acid or catalyze the attack of an intramolecular hydroxyl to form a macrolactone. These TEs are dimers with two N terminal alpha helices forming a lid to lid dimer interface and adopt the hydrolase fold characteristic of some serine hydrolases. Access to the classic nucleophile His acid catalytic triad active site is restricted by a narrow tunnel formed by a closed lid. Many PKS and NRPS pathways also include a second non modular thioesterase called a TE II in addition to an offloading TE also known as TE I which performs an editing function within the pathway. The curacin TE shows low similarity to sequences in all parts of the phylogenic tree 24 also pointing the need to more closely study curacin TE to understand its activity.

Disclosed herein are methods of preparing alkenes by decarboxylation of beta sulfate carboxylic acids or carboxylic acid derivatives. More specifically disclosed herein are methods of preparing alkenes by decarboxylative elimination to form the alkene.

Thus in one aspect provided herein is a method of contacting a beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative with a TE such that the TE mediates decarboxylative elimination of the beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative to form the alkene. In some cases the TE comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 or an enzymatically active fragment thereof which maintains the TE activity of SEQ ID NO 3.

The method disclosed herein can further comprise contacting a beta hydroxy carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative with a sulfonating reagent and a sulfotransferase ST such that the ST mediates the formation of the beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative. In some cases the ST comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 or an enzymatically active fragment thereof which maintains the ST activity of SEQ ID NO 4. The ST and TE can be in the same polypeptide or in different polypeptides.

The carboxylic acid derivative can comprise a carboxylic acid conjugated to an acyl carrier protein ACP . In some cases the ACP comprises an amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 5 or active fragment thereof. In various embodiments the ACP and at least one of the TE and ST e.g. ACP and TE and or ACP and ST are in the same polypeptide. In some cases the ACP TE and ST are all in the same polypeptide. In some embodiments the ACP TE and ST are all in the same polypeptide and that polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1.

In some embodiments the alkene is a terminal alkene. In various cases the alkene has a structure of formula II and the beta sulfate or beta hydroxy carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative has a structure of formula I 

In another aspect disclosed herein is an isolated crystalline form of a sulfotransferase ST polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 a space group P222 unit cell parameters of a 45.8 b 67.3 c 118.0 90 and one ST molecule in an asymmetric unit.

In yet another aspect disclosed herein is an isolated crystalline form of a thioesterase TE polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 a space group P2 unit cell parameters of a 74.5 b 86.9 c 87.6 90 90.8 and four TE molecules in an asymmetric unit.

In still another aspect disclosed herein is an isolated thioesterase TE polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is greater than 75 identical to SEQ ID NO 3 and exhibits TE activity. In some cases the sequence is greater than 90 greater than 95 or greater than 98 identical to SEQ ID NO 3. In a specific embodiment the sequence is SEQ ID NO 3.

Further disclosed herein is a polynucleotide encoding an isolated TE polypeptide disclosed herein. Also disclosed herein is a vector comprising such a polynucleotide and a host cell comprising the polynucleotide or vector.

In another aspect provided herein is a method of preparing a disclosed isolated TE polypeptide comprising culturing a host cell as disclosed herein and recovering the polypeptide.

In a further aspect the invention provides an antibody specifically reactive with a polypeptide described herein.

Disclosed herein are methods of synthesizing an alkene e.g. a terminal alkene using natural or engineered enzymes. In particular disclosed herein are methods of preparing an alkene from a beta sulfate OSO carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative by contacting the beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative with a thioesterase TE or fragment of a TE having TE enzymatic activity to form the alkene by decarboxylative elimination. The method can further comprise formation of the beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative by contacting a beta hydroxy carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative with a sulfotransferase ST or fragment of a ST having ST enzymatic activity to form the beta sulfate carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid derivative thereof. Any beta hydroxy or sulfate carboxylic acid A representative beta hydroxy sulfate carboxylic acid or derivative thereof is illustrated in Formula I and can form an alkene of Formula II 

 Decarboxylative elimination used herein refers to elimination of a carboxylic acid or derivative thereof and optionally a beta hydroxy or sulfate moiety to form an alkene. This process can be illustrated in the following reaction scheme 

A carboxylic acid derivative as used herein refers to a moiety such as an ester a thioester an amide or the like.

The term alkyl used herein refers to a saturated or unsaturated straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group of one to ten carbon atoms including but not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl tert butyl n hexyl and the like. Alkyls of one to six carbon atoms are also contemplated. The term alkyl includes bridged alkyl i.e. a bicyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon group for example norbornyl adamantyl bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl bicyclo 3.2.1 octyl or decahydronaphthyl. Alkyl groups optionally can be substituted for example with hydroxy OH halo aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl and amino. It is specifically contemplated that in the analogs described herein the alkyl group consists of 1 40 carbon atoms 1 25 carbon atoms 1 15 carbon atoms 1 12 carbon atoms 1 10 carbon atoms 1 8 carbon atoms and 1 6 carbon atoms. Heteroalkyl is defined similarly as alkyl except the heteroalkyl contains at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of oxygen nitrogen and sulfur.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon group e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl and cyclopentyl. Heterocycloalkyl is defined similarly as cycloalkyl except the ring contains one to three heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Nonlimiting examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include piperdine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydropyran dihydrofuran morpholine thiophene and the like. Cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups can be saturated or partially unsaturated ring systems optionally substituted with for example one to three groups independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkyleneOH C O NH NH oxo O aryl haloalkyl halo and OH. Heterocycloalkyl groups optionally can be further N substituted with alkyl hydroxyalkyl alkylenearyl or alkyleneheteroaryl.

The term alkenyl used herein refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group of two to thirty or more carbon atoms containing at least one carbon double bond including but not limited to 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 1 propenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and the like. Alkynyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group of two to thirty or more carbon atoms containing at least one carbon triple bond.

The term alkylene used herein refers to an alkyl group having a substituent. For example the term alkylene aryl refers to an alkyl group substituted with an aryl group. The alkylene group is optionally substituted with one or more substituent previously listed as an optional alkyl substituent. For example an alkylene group can be CHCH .

As used herein the term alkenylene is defined identical as alkylene except the group contains at least one carbon carbon double bond.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group preferably a monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl or naphthyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl chlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic or bicyclic ring system containing one or two aromatic rings and containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring. Unless otherwise indicated a heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four substituents selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino COH COalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl pyridyl oxazolyl quinolyl thiophenyl isoquinolyl indolyl triazinyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl benzothiazolyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl and thiadiazolyl.

The term alkoxy used herein refers to straight or branched chain alkyl group covalently bonded to the parent molecule through an O linkage. Examples of alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy butoxy n butoxy sec butoxy t butoxy and the like.

The term amino as used herein refers to NR where R is independently hydrogen optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted heteroalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. In some cases R is independently hydrogen or alkyl. Non limiting examples of amino groups include NHand N CH .

The term amido as used herein refers to C O NH C O NR NRC O R or NHC O H where each R is independently hydrogen optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted heteroalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. In some cases the amido group is NHC O alkyl or NHC O H. A non limiting example of an amido group is NHC O CH.

The term carboxy or carboxyl used herein refers to COOH or its deprotonated form COO. Carboxyalkyl refers to optionally substituted alkyl or alkenyl groups having a carboxy moiety. Examples include but are not limited to CHCOOH CHCH COOH CH and CHCHCHCOOH.

The TE ST and or ACP can be in separate polypeptides or in the same polypeptide. For example CurM SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 2 nucleic acid sequence comprises a TE ST and ACP domain at residues 1929 to 2211 TE SEQ ID NO 3 1622 to 1905 ST SEQ ID NO 4 and 1504 to 1592 ACP SEQ ID NO 5 .

It is contemplated that longer or indeed shorter peptides of TE ST and or ACP also may prove useful. Thus also contemplated are peptides that comprise at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 or more amino acids from the TE ST and or ACP peptide added to its N terminus. For example the amino acid at position 1928 of SEQ ID NO 1 1621 of SEQ ID NO 1 and or 1503 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 1 amino acid to the N terminus of a peptide sequence described herein is desired. Similarly the amino acids from any one of positions 1502 1501 1500 1499 1498 1497 1496 1495 1494 1489 or 1484 to 1503 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 or 20 amino acids respectively to the N terminus of the ACP peptide is desired. The amino acids from any one of positions 1620 1619 1618 1617 1616 1615 1614 1613 1612 1607 or 1602 to 1621 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 or 20 amino acids respectively to the N terminus of the ST peptide is desired. The amino acids from any one of positions 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1914 or 1909 to 1928 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 or 20 amino acids respectively to the N terminus of the TE peptide is desired.

In some embodiments a peptide described herein comprises at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 or more amino acids added to its C terminus. These amino acids can be from the native CurM sequence or can be unnatural additional amino acids added that still at least substantially maintain the enzymatic activity of the ACP ST and or TE. For example the amino acid at position 1593 of SEQ ID NO 1 and or 1906 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein to the ACP and or ST peptide respectively. Similarly the amino acids from 1593 to any one of positions 1594 1595 1596 1597 1598 1599 1600 1601 1602 1607 or 1612 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 or 20 amino acids respectively to the C terminus of the ACP peptide is desired. The amino acids from 1906 to any one of positions 1607 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1920 or 1925 of SEQ ID NO 1 could be added to a peptide described herein if the addition of 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 or 20 amino acids respectively to the C terminus of the ST peptide is desired. Since the CurM protein SEQ ID NO 1 ends with the TE peptide non native amino acids can be added to the TE peptide C terminus e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 16 or 20 amino acids.

In some embodiments the addition of amino acids to both the N and C termini of a peptide described herein is contemplated.

The term polypeptide as used herein refers to amino acids joined to each other by peptide bonds or modified peptide bonds i.e. peptide isosteres and may contain modified amino acids other than the 20 gene encoded amino acids. The polypeptides may be modified by either natural processes such as post translational processing or by chemical modification techniques which are well known in the art. Modifications can occur anywhere in the polypeptide including the peptide backbone the amino acid side chains and the amino or carboxyl termini. It will be appreciated that the same type of modification may be present in the same or varying degrees at several sites in a given polypeptide. Also a given polypeptide may have many types of modifications. Modifications can include but are not limited to acetylation acylation ADP ribosylation amidation covalent attachment of flavin covalent attachment of a heme moiety covalent attachment of a nucleotide or nucleotide derivative covalent attachment of a lipid or lipid derivative covalent attachment of a phosphytidylinositol cross linking cyclization disulfide bond formation demethylation formation of covalent cross links formation of cysteine formation of pyroglutamate formylation gamma carboxylation glycosylation GPI anchor formation hydroxylation iodination methylation myristolyation oxidation pergylation proteolytic processing phosphorylation prenylation racemization selenoylation sulfation and or transfer RNA mediated addition of amino acids to protein such as arginylation. See Proteins Structure and Molecular Properties 2nd Ed. T. E. Creighton W. H. Freeman and Company New York 1993 Posttranslational Covalent Modification of Proteins B. C. Johnson Ed. Academic Press New York pp. 1 12 1983 .

As used herein the term isolated means that the material is removed from its original environment e.g. the natural environment if it is naturally occurring . For example a naturally occurring polynucleotide or polypeptide present in a living animal is not isolated but the same polynucleotide or polypeptide separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system is isolated. Such polynucleotides could be part of a vector and or such polynucleotides or polypeptides could be part of a composition and still be isolated in that such vector or composition is not part of its natural environment.

As used herein the term purified does not require absolute purity rather it is intended as a relative definition. Individual nucleic acids obtained from a library have been conventionally purified to electrophoretic homogeneity. The sequences obtained from these clones could not be obtained directly either from the library or from total human DNA. The purified nucleic acids of the invention have been purified from the remainder of the genomic DNA in the organism by at least 10 10fold. However the term purified also includes nucleic acids that have been purified from the remainder of the genomic DNA or from other sequences in a library or other environment by at least one order of magnitude typically two or three orders and more typically four or five orders of magnitude.

As used herein the term recombinant means that the nucleic acid is adjacent to backbone nucleic acid to which it is not adjacent in its natural environment. Additionally to be enriched the nucleic acids will represent 5 or more of the number of nucleic acid inserts in a population of nucleic acid backbone molecules. Backbone molecules according to the invention include nucleic acids such as expression vectors self replicating nucleic acids viruses integrating nucleic acids and other vectors or nucleic acids used to maintain or manipulate a nucleic acid insert of interest. Typically the enriched nucleic acids represent 15 or more of the number of nucleic acid inserts in the population of recombinant backbone molecules. More typically the enriched nucleic acids represent 50 or more of the number of nucleic acid inserts in the population of recombinant backbone molecules. In a one embodiment the enriched nucleic acids represent 90 or more of the number of nucleic acid inserts in the population of recombinant backbone molecules.

 Recombinant polypeptides or proteins refer to polypeptides or proteins produced by recombinant DNA techniques i.e. produced from cells transformed by an exogenous DNA construct encoding the desired polypeptide or protein or produced from a DNA construct by enzymes transcribed by an RNA polymerase and translated by ribosomes tRNAs and accessory proteins outside a cell . Synthetic polypeptides or protein are those prepared by chemical synthesis. Solid phase chemical peptide synthesis methods can also be used to synthesize the polypeptide or fragments of the invention. Such method have been known in the art since the early 1960 s Merrifield R. B. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85 2149 2154 1963 See also Stewart J. M. and Young J. D. Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis 2 ed. Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. pp. 11 12 and have recently been employed in commercially available laboratory peptide design and synthesis kits Cambridge Research Biochemicals . Such commercially available laboratory kits have generally utilized the teachings of H. M. Geysen et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 3998 1984 and provide for synthesizing peptides upon the tips of a multitude of rods or pins all of which are connected to a single plate. When such a system is utilized a plate of rods or pins is inverted and inserted into a second plate of corresponding wells or reservoirs which contain solutions for attaching or anchoring an appropriate amino acid to the pin s or rod s tips. By repeating such a process step i.e. inverting and inserting the rod s and pin s tips into appropriate solutions amino acids are built into desired peptides. In addition a number of available FMOC peptide synthesis systems are available. For example assembly of a polypeptide or fragment can be carried out on a solid support using an Applied Biosystems Inc. Model 431A automated peptide synthesizer. Such equipment provides ready access to the peptides of the invention either by direct synthesis or by synthesis of a series of fragments that can be coupled using other known techniques.

A promoter sequence is operably linked to a coding sequence when the RNA polymerase that initiates transcription at the promoter will transcribe the coding sequence into mRNA.

 Plasmids are designated by a lower case p preceded and or followed by capital letters and or numbers. The starting plasmids herein are either commercially available publicly available on an unrestricted basis or can be constructed from available plasmids in accord with published procedures. In addition equivalent plasmids to those described herein are known in the art and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.

 Digestion of DNA refers to catalytic cleavage of the DNA with a restriction enzyme that acts only at certain sequences in the DNA. The various restriction enzymes used herein are commercially available and their reaction conditions cofactors and other requirements were used as would be known to the ordinarily skilled artisan. For analytical purposes typically 1 g of plasmid or DNA fragment is used with about 2 units of enzyme in about 201 of buffer solution. For the purpose of isolating DNA fragments for plasmid construction typically 5 to 50 g of DNA are digested with 20 to 250 units of enzyme in a larger volume. Appropriate buffers and substrate amounts for particular restriction enzymes are specified by the manufacturer. Incubation times of about 1 hour at 37 C are ordinarily used but may vary in accordance with the supplier s instructions. After digestion the gel electrophoresis may be performed to isolate the desired fragment.

 Oligonucleotide refers to either a single stranded polydeoxynucleotide or two complementary polydeoxynucleotide strands which may be chemically synthesized. Such synthetic oligonucleotides have no 5 phosphate and thus will not ligate to another oligonucleotide without adding a phosphate with an ATP in the presence of a kinase. A synthetic oligonucleotide will ligate to a fragment that has not been dephosphorylated.

The phrase substantially identical in the context of two nucleic acid sequences or polypeptides refers to two or more sequences that have greater than 60 greater than 70 greater than 80 greater than 90 greater than 91 greater than 92 greater than 93 greater than 94 greater than 95 greater than 96 greater than 97 greater than 98 or greater than 99 nucleotide or amino acid residue identity when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence as measured using one of the known sequence comparison algorithms or by visual inspection. The substantial identity can exists over a region of at least about 100 residues and in some cases the sequences are substantially identical over at least about 150 200 residues. In some embodiments the sequences are substantially identical over the entire length of the nucleotide or polypeptide.

Additionally a substantially identical amino acid sequence is a sequence that differs from a reference sequence by one or more conservative or non conservative amino acid substitutions deletions or insertions particularly when such a substitution occurs at a site that is not the active site of the molecule and provided that the polypeptide essentially retains its functional properties. A conservative amino acid substitution for example substitutes one amino acid for another of the same class e.g. substitution of one hydrophobic amino acid such as isoleucine valine leucine or methionine for another or substitution of one polar amino acid for another such as substitution of arginine for lysine glutamic acid for aspartic acid or glutamine for asparagine . One or more amino acids can be deleted for example from a haloalkane dehalogenase polypeptide resulting in modification of the structure of the polypeptide without significantly altering its biological activity. Modified polypeptide sequences of the invention can be assayed for haloalkane dehalogenase biological activity by any number of methods including contacting the modified polypeptide sequence with an haloalkane dehalogenase substrate and determining whether the modified polypeptide decreases the amount of specific substrate in the assay or increases the bioproducts of the enzymatic reaction of a functional haloalkane dehalogenase polypeptide with the substrate.

 Fragments as used herein are a portion of a naturally occurring or recombinant protein that can exist in at least two different confirmations. Fragments can have the same or substantially the same amino acid sequence as the naturally occurring protein. Substantially the same means that an amino acid sequence is largely but not entirely the same but retains at least one functional activity of the sequence to which it is related. In general two amino acid sequences are substantially the same or substantially homologous if they are greater than about 50 but more typically greater than about 70 greater than about 85 or greater than about 90 identical. Fragments that have different three dimensional structures as the naturally occurring protein are also included. An example of this is a pro form molecule such as a low activity proprotein that can be modified by cleavage to produce a mature enzyme with significantly higher activity.

 Enzymatically active fragment refers to a fragment of e.g. TE ST and ACP which retains some or all of the enzymatic activity of the full TE ST and or ACP sequence. The activity of the fragment can be for example at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 or at least 95 the activity of the original sequence.

CurM was sequenced and additional parts of the 3 flanking region of the cur cluster in another cosmid pLM14 from the genomic DNA library 14 and compared the data with those from a genome sequencing project. It revealed that the 3 end of the deposited cur gene cluster 5 starting from the middle of curM TE region was indeed chimeric. The revised gene cluster lacks curN and a complete TE domain is encoded by the 3 end of curM 5 . The adjacent downstream genes show high homology to tRNA 2 selenouridine synthase ATPase and adenylate guanylate cyclase Cy and are not likely involved in curacin biosynthesis . Thus curM now appears to mark the 3 end boundary of the cur gene cluster and the ST TE di domain presumably functions as the chain termination module.

To biochemically assess the ST TE mediated chain termination process CurM ACP ST and TE were cloned and overexpressed as soluble single domain constructs. ST was eluted as a monomer and TE as a dimer from an analytical size exclusion column. ACP was overexpressed in the apo form in order to generate ACP linked substrates. A simplified model substrate 3 hydroxy 5 methoxytetradecanoyl CoA 1 CoA was designed to mimic the full length chain intermediate tethered to CurM ACP . Two hydroxyl enantiomers 3S 1 CoA and 3R 1 CoA were synthesized to test the stereoselectivity of the enzymes. The ACP linked substrates were generated by loading the acyl CoA substrates to the apo ACP by using the highly flexible Svp phosphopantetheinyltransferase 15 .

With the soluble enzymes and model substrates in hand the key issues in curacin A chain termination were investigated including 1 whether the sulfonated carboxylic acid 2 will be generated 2 the timing of the putative ST sulfonation and TE hydrolysis 3 whether 2 can lead to the formation of 3 via a decarboxylative elimination mechanism .

First it was investigated whether the CurM TE exhibits canonical hydrolysis activity to cleave the thioester bond. 3S 1 ACP and 3R 1 ACP were prepared as the TE substrates to test its stereoselectivity for the hydroxyl group. The reactions were analyzed by reverse phase HPLC and the separated ACP fractions were examined by Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry FTICR MS and infrared multiphoton dissociation IRMPD 16 techniques. In addition the chain release products were detected by LC MS and confirmed by co injection with authentic standards. Both of the acyl groups were found to be hydrolyzed from 3S 1 ACP and 3R 1 ACP with low efficiency ii B iii A ii and A . However TE catalyzed hydrolysis of 3S 1 ACP was about 5 fold faster than with 3R 1 ACP . In addition the steady state kinetic analysis using the CoA linked substrates confirmed that 3S 1 is the preferred substrate for TE FIG. SB . However based on bioinformatic analysis of PKS ketoreductase KR sequences 17 the CurM KR was predicted to reduce the keto to a R hydroxyl group in the full length chain intermediate.

Based on the known mechanism of ST enzyme function CurM ST was predicted to bind to PAPS and transfer a sulfonate moiety to the hydroxyl group of the intermediate tethered to or released from CurM ACP . First the ST substrate was identified by testing the sulfonation of 1 and 1 ACP. The sulfonation of 1 was analyzed by LC MS and that of 1 ACP was examined by HPLC and FTICR MS. No substrate conversion was observed for 1 in the presence of ST and PAPS. In contrast complete conversion of 3R 1 ACP was determined by HPLC iii and the product with an 80 dalton mass addition was confirmed to be 3R 2 ACP by FTICR MS ii . Notably for 3R 1 ACP substrate the ST catalyzed sulfonation was about 1000 fold faster than TE hydrolysis. Likewise the stereoselectivity of ST for the hydroxyl group was determined by comparing the sulfonation efficiency of 3S 1 ACP and 3R 1 ACP. Under the same reaction condition ST sulfonation with 3R 1 ACP was about 2.5 fold faster than with 3S 1 ACP . Thus CurM ST stereoselectivity is consistent with the predicted formation of a R hydroxyl group by CurM KR. The catalytic efficiency and substrate preference of ST and TE revealed in these experiments provide convincing evidence that ST sulfonation precedes the TE hydrolysis step.

With the order of the ST and TE reactions established for the acyl ACP intermediate the next investigation was to couple the two reactions in one pot. When 3R 1 ACP was treated with both ST and TE complete release of the acyl chain from CurM ACP was observed by HPLC iv and confirmed by FTICR MS iii and IRMPD. Under the same reaction conditions it was discovered that the CurM TE catalyzed hydrolysis reaction with sulfonated product 3R 2 ACP was about 800 fold faster than with 3R 1 ACP. Moreover TE catalyzed hydrolysis of 3R 2 ACP was about 120 fold faster than 3S 2 ACP . These results further corroborated the timing and stereoselectivity of the ST sulfonation and TE hydrolysis reactions.

Next experiments were performed to assess whether the proposed sulfonated intermediate 3R 2 is released following hydrolysis of 3R 2 ACP or whether formation of 3 occurs directly by a coordinated decarboxylative elimination process. First the ST TE coupled reactions with 3R 1 ACP were analyzed by LC MS and a single product was confirmed to be 3R 2 by co injection with the corresponding authentic standard iii . Due to the expected volatility of 3 the contents of the coupled reaction were extracted with hexane and analyzed by GC MS. A second product was thus detected and confirmed to be 3 by co injection with the corresponding authentic standard iv . It was found that 2 was relatively stable in the reaction mixture and was not spontaneously converted to 3. To determine which enzyme catalyzes the decarboxylative elimination of 2 authentic e.g. synthetic 3R 2 was separately treated with CurM ST or TE and a small amount of 3 was observed only for the TE reaction about 2 conversion in 1 hour . Under the same conditions the TE reaction with 3R 2 ACP leading to 3 was more efficient than with 3R 2 about 20 conversion in 5 min suggesting that the decarboxylative elimination is likely coupled with hydrolysis in the TE active site.

Disclosed herein are the biochemical reactions for the natural product biosynthesis of curacin A. A functional ST is inserted into the CurM PKS chain termination module leading to a unique series of on assembly line reactions. Specifically these catalytic events transform the hydroxyl of the penultimate chain elongation intermediate into a sulfate an excellent leaving group that is positioned chemically to facilitate decarboxylative elimination in the presence of the terminal carboxylate following TE mediated hydrolysis of the acyl thioester .

The significant levels of 3R 2 greater than 50 as a product of the TE reaction from model substrate 3R 1 ACP suggests that some interactions between the native substrate and TE active site are involved in efficient coupling of the hydrolysis and decarboxylative elimination reactions. This could reflect a kinetic propensity for the sulfonated acyl acid product of the model substrate to be released from the CurM TE active site prematurely thus enabling isolation of 3R 2. Indeed given the substrate tolerance of the ST TE module this discovery represents a useful new metabolic engineering tool for deliberate incorporation of terminal olefins into high value natural products and other long chain hydrocarbons including liquid fuels.

Finally a highly similar strategy of terminal olefin formation occurs in the mevalonate pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis 18 . Specifically mevalonate 5 diphosphate decarboxylase MDD along with mevalonate kinase and mevalonate 5 phosphate kinase catalyze a decarboxylative elimination reaction by first converting a hydroxyl group into a phosphate leaving group . In contrast introduction of a terminal olefin as the final step in tautomycetin biosynthesis a polyketide metabolite isolated from sp. CK4412 is more likely generated by the action of a discrete decarboxylase via yet another unique mechanism 19 .

Structural Insights into Terminal Alkene Formation by the Thioesterase in the Curacin A Biosynthetic Pathway

The crystal structure of CurM TE was determined to 1.7 . CurM TE has the expected hydrolase fold but differs from other offloading TEs in lid structure and dimer interface position which results in an open cleft active site. Comparison with uncharacterized sequences of putative tandem ST TE domains with presumably similar activity reveals dense conservation within the cleft. A model of the predicted acyl enzyme intermediate shows a conserved Arg205 which may confer specificity to TE for the sulfate a prediction that is supported by site directed mutagenesis studies.

Using a simplified analogue 3 hydroxy 5 methoxytetradecanoyl ACP of the penultimate pathway intermediate it has been recently demonstrated that offloading and terminal bond formation starts with the ST sulfating the hydroxyl group of the intermediate using the sulfate donor PAPS 28 . The TE acts upon the sulfated intermediate and produces two products a desulfated and decarboxylated terminal double bond and a hydrolyzed carboxylic acid retaining the sulfate group . The TE acted very slowly on the non sulfated substrate. This unprecedented requirement of a sulfate for even hydrolytic catalysis as well as the unique decarboxylation and desulfation activity points to a different catalytic strategy and active site than other FAS PKS or NRPS TEs.

In order to understand this novel decarboxylation and desulfation activity CurM TE was crystallized and its three dimensional structure was determined. Significant differences from the PKS offloading TEs were observed especially in the lid region. Using information from the structure and sequence alignments a prediction of sulfate recognition was developed. Point mutations were made and the activity in these mutants was tested to lend support to the initial prediction giving a mechanism for the decarboxylation and desulfation activity and specificity towards the sulfated hydroxyl.

Since the TE is a single domain at the terminus of a larger polypeptide CurM the N terminal boundary of the TE domain was ambiguous. Constructs were made with three different N termini with the addition of the fusion protein Mocr necessary to obtain a useable yield of soluble protein. The construct starting at amino acid 1929 of CurM yielded crystals with three amino acids SNA added to the N terminus SEQ ID NO 21 . The structure was solved by SAD phasing using selenomethionyl CurM TE to 2.2 . A native dataset of the same crystal form was collected to 1.7 and was used for refinement Table 1 . The CurM TE crystal structure is deposited in the public database for three dimensional structures of biological macromolecules Protein Data Bank PDB http www.rcsb.org and is available with the accession code 2H7X.

The CurM TE structure adopts the hydrolase fold with residues 1 128 and 217 283 of SEQ ID NO 21 comprising the core domain and residues 136 204 comprising the lid C . Each of the 4 monomers in the asymmetric unit contains a disordered region in one of the two lid to core linking segments 129 140 and 205 216 monomer A is disordered 131 135 B 205 216 C 130 140 and 207 215 D 134 135 and 212 215 . While no single monomer provides a complete view of these loops superposition of the monomers provides a representation of continuous connection.

Despite its sulfotransferase ST catalytic activity the CurM ST sequence could not be mapped onto any known ST structure due to low sequence identity. The CurM ST was excised from CurM as an individual domain comprising residues 1598 1917 of SEQ ID NO 1 and a three amino acid addition to the N terminus SNA at positions 3 2 and 1 SEQ ID NO 19 renumbered as 3 320 for purposes of the description in this paragraph . Single amino acid substitutions of Gln259Ala and Lys260Ala SEQ ID NO 20 were engineered to reduce surface entropy and enable crystallization of the monomeric protein and the 1.6 crystal structure of the recombinant ST was determined Table 2 . The core of CurM ST representing only about 60 of the structure has a fold similar to those of other STs but the CurM ST has additional loops and helices in unique positions surrounding the core B . The structure revealed the detailed binding of adenosine 3 5 diphosphate PAP the product of the sulfate donor 3 phosphoadenosine 5 phosphosulfate PAPS . With knowledge of the PAPS PAP binding site the catalytic base was identified as Glu60. Other active site residues which may be involved in substrate recognition or may assist catalysis include His62 Lys133 and Thr43 . The CurM ST crystal structure is deposited in the public database for three dimensional structures of biological macromolecules Protein Data Bank PDB http www.rcsb.org and is available with the accession code 4 GBM.

CurM TE has similar secondary structure to other PKS offloading TEs in the core but significant differences in secondary structure arrangement exist in the lid region . CurM TE lacks the two N terminal dimerization helices present in the lid of PKS TEIs which are responsible for their lid to lid dimerization. In the CurM TE crystal structure this lid to lid dimerization is not present. However size exclusion chromatography data indicate that CurM TE is dimeric in solution and a dimer interface different that the PKS TEI interface is observed in the crystal structure A B . The CurM TE dimer interface has an average surface area of 1220 . It is a side to side dimer with a protruding helix in the lid making extensive contacts with the core of its dimeric partner. This results in a dimer that serves to hold the lid in an open conformation. When active site accessibility is compared to Pik TE drastic differences are seen. A narrow tunnel in Pik TE contrasts an exposed cleft in CurM TE B . In both instances the specific dimer interface serves to create the environment around the active site.

Despite these differences the position of the catalytic triad in the active site is well conserved compared to the PKS TEIs but with the replacement of the Asp from the PKS TEIs with Glu in CurM TE . There are no other residues near the active site of CurM TE that appear to be assisting with catalysis. Using knowledge of the serine protease catalytic cycle a catalytic scheme was predicted which would produce the observed products Scheme 1 . In the scheme CurM TE reacts in the same way as an offloading TE up to the acyl enzyme intermediate. At this point instead of break down of the acyl enzyme simply by hydrolysis hydrolysis would be followed by an enzyme assisted concerted decarboxylation and desulfation producing the terminal alkene Scheme . However this scheme alone is not able to explain why CurM TE will perform the decarboxylation and desulfation instead of just hydrolysis or explain the selectivity of CurM TE for the sulfated hydroxyl. Presumably other residues in CurM TE provide specificity and regulation. The structure was examined more closely to assess if any such residues existed.

The predicted sulfated tetrahedral intermediate was modeled into the crystal structure using knowledge of nucleophile His acid active site catalysis and geometry and the affinity label from Pik TE 25 as a guide . This shows Arg205 in a position to recognize the sulfate group of the modeled intermediate suggesting it could be responsible for pushing catalysis toward decarboxylation and desulfation after hydrolysis Scheme 1 . Additionally Arg205 can provide specificity towards sulfated substrates by helping to position the substrate for catalysis in the large open cleft whereas the non sulfated substrate will have no such extra guidance.

When blasting the ACP ST TE amino acid sequence from CurM into the NCBI protein database five other sequences were identified with 51 33 identity with CurM ACP ST TE . These sequences are unstudied protein products from bacterial genome sequences. The high degree of conservation in all three domains led to an assumption that those gene products catalyze a similar decarboxylation and desulfation reaction. Subsequently investigation of conserved residues within these sequences may illuminate residues important for this function.

Aligning these five sequences with CurM results in 51 32 identity . When mapped onto the CurM TE structure a dense area of conservation appears in the active site cleft . The protruding helix 4 participating in the dimer interface notably does not have invariant residues but has conservation of hydrophobic character indicating all of the gene products should have the same dimer interface as CurM TE. The conservation in the cleft above the active site in the opposite direction of the modeled intermediate may serve as a docking and recognition site for ACP and Ppant arm. The conservation around the modeled intermediate could be playing a more direct role in catalysis especially R205 the residue in position to recognize the modeled sulfate. This residue is conserved in all but one sequence which has two other arginines in proximity which could serve this role. To elucidate the role of R205 and other conserved residues along the active site cleft a series of point mutations were made.

The activity of these mutants was tested using the same assay described previously 28 . A one pot reaction was used where CurM ACP was loaded with a synthesized substrate mimic using Svp after which CurM ST sulfates the hydroxyl. Lastly CurM TE was added and the reaction is quenched after 1 minute. The liberation of holo ACP was detected by a shift on the HPLC. The ratio of holo ACP to ACP with the sulfated substrate was measured. Mutant activity was compared to the activity of wild type CurM TE and free hydrolysis without enzyme in order to obtain percent activity for the mutants Table 3 . All mutants showed reduced or no activity compared to wild type. A control mutation in the catalytic triad H266R showed significantly reduced 1 of WT activity as expected. Two conserved Asn mutants one next to the catalytic His N267A and one interacting with R205 N211A had catalytic activity but at a reduced rate. Notably all R205 mutants had very reduced 1 6 of wild type activity. When tested with the non sulfated substrate neither the wild type nor any of the mutants showed any detectable reaction except for the non physiological S hydroxy substrate with the wild type CurM TE.

These studies result in an overall scheme of double bond formation where the sulfate group interacts with Arg205 to bind and react with CurM TE. It is important to note that the wild type and mutants do not react with the non sulfated substrate indicating CurM TE is selective for a sulfate group. This selection could come from the sulfate acting as a handle which R205 can use to position the substrate for catalysis. The open active site may not have sufficient specificity to allow for non sulfated substrates to be positioned for catalysis resulting in the observed inactivity. R205 could also plays a role in driving the concerted release of COand SOinstead of the production of a carboxylic acid as would be seen in a canonical PKS TE I. The production of the sulfated carboxylic acid as well as the terminal alkene product were detected 28 indicating that in the system tested at least part of the catalysis proceeds via the carboxylic acid. The analogous carboxylate and sulfated curacin product was never detected as being produced from on the experimental detection of the carboxylated and sulfated product may be an off pathway result of the experimental conditions.

CurM TE represents a new branch of the thioesterase family optimized to work in concert with a ST to create a terminal double bond. There are already five other cases in the protein database where this type of TE appears. It may be that other organisms that have been found to produce hydrocarbons with terminal alkenes such as 44 may use this same ST TE offloading strategy. This ability to create a terminal double bond could have applications in introducing diversity into natural products through combinatorial biosynthesis of FAS and PKS pathways or producing hydrocarbons with terminal alkenes for possible use as a biofuel.

CurM TE has been found to have an intact catalytic triad active site which is much more open compared to other studied PKS TEs. The unique lid arrangement and dimer interface facilitates the open cleft surrounding the active site. High sequence conservation within the active site cleft point to its importance in CurM TE specificity and activity. Specificity is invoked through R205 guiding the sulfated substrate into position for catalysis in a cleft that is excessively for correct positioning of non sulfated substrates.

DNA encoding a polypeptide disclosed herein may be isolated and sequenced from a host cell secreting the protein using conventional procedures. Sequence determination will generally require isolation of at least a portion of the gene or cDNA of interest. Usually this requires cloning the DNA or preferably mRNA i.e. cDNA encoding the polypeptide. Cloning is carried out using standard techniques see e.g. Sambrook et al. 1989 Vols 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Press which is incorporated herein by reference . For example a cDNA library may be constructed by reverse transcription of polyA mRNA preferably membrane associated mRNA and the library screened using probes specific for human immunoglobulin polypeptide gene sequences. Nucleotide probe reactions and other nucleotide hybridization reactions are carried out at conditions enabling the identification of polynucleotides that hybridize to each other under specified conditions.

One exemplary set of conditions is as follows stringent hybridization at 42 C. in 50 formamide 5 SSC 20 mM Na.PO4 pH 6.8 and washing in 1 SSC at 55 C. for 30 minutes. Formulae for calculating equivalent hybridization conditions and or selecting other conditions to achieve a desired level of stringency are well known. It is understood in the art that conditions of equivalent stringency can be achieved through variation of temperature and buffer or salt concentration as described Ausubel et al. Eds. John Wiley Sons 1994 pp. 6.0.3 to 6.4.10. Modifications in hybridization conditions can be empirically determined or precisely calculated based on the length and the percentage of guanosine cytosine GC base pairing of the probe. The hybridization conditions can be calculated as described in Sambrook et al. Eds. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 pp. 9.47 to 9.51

In a preferred embodiment however the polymerase chain reaction PCR is used to amplify cDNAs or portions of full length cDNAs encoding a polypeptide of interest. The amplified sequences can be readily cloned into any suitable vector e.g. expression vectors minigene vectors or phage display vectors. It will be appreciated that the particular method of cloning used is not critical an long as it is possible to determine the sequence of some portion of the polypeptide of interest. As used herein an isolated nucleic acid molecule or isolated nucleic acid sequence is a nucleic acid molecule that is either 1 identified and separated from at least one contaminant nucleic acid molecule with which it is ordinarily associated in the natural source of the nucleic acid or 2 cloned amplified tagged or otherwise distinguished from background nucleic acids such that the sequence of the nucleic acid of interest can be determined is considered isolated. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is other than in the form or setting in which it is found in nature. Isolated nucleic acid molecules therefore are distinguished from the nucleic acid molecule as it exists in natural cells. However an isolated nucleic acid molecule includes a nucleic acid molecule contained in cells that ordinarily express the antibody where for example the nucleic acid molecule is in a chromosomal location different from that of natural cells.

The sequence of the amplified or cloned nucleic acid is then determined. Typically the sequence encoding the entire polypeptide is determined.

Sequencing can be carried out on clones isolated from any source such as a single isolate a cDNA library or when PCR is used after subcloning the amplified sequence or by direct PCR sequencing of the amplified segment. Sequencing is carried out using standard techniques see e.g. Sambrook et al. 1989 Vols 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Press and Sanger F. et al. 1977 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74 5463 5467 which is incorporated herein by reference .

Once isolated the DNA may be placed into expression vectors which are then transfected into host cells such as cells simian COS cells human embryonic kidney 293 cells e.g. 293E cells Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells or myeloma cells to obtain the synthesis of the polypeptide of interest in the recombinant host cells. Recombinant production of polypeptides is well known in the art.

Expression control sequences refers to DNA sequences necessary for the expression of an operably linked coding sequence in a particular host organism. The control sequences that are suitable for prokaryotes for example include a promoter optionally an operator sequence and a ribosome binding site. Eukaryotic cells are known to utilize promoters polyadenylation signals and enhancers.

Nucleic acid is operably linked when it is placed into a functional relationship with another nucleic acid sequence. For example DNA for a presequence or secretory leader is operably linked to DNA for a polypeptide if it is expressed as a preprotein that participates in the secretion of the polypeptide a promoter or enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if it affects the transcription of the sequence or a ribosome binding site is operably linked to a coding sequence if it is positioned so as to facilitate translation. Generally operably linked means that the DNA sequences being linked are contiguous and in the case of a secretory leader contiguous and in reading phase. However enhancers do not have to be contiguous. Linking is accomplished by ligation at convenient restriction sites. If such sites do not exist the synthetic oligonucleotide adaptors or linkers are used in accordance with conventional practice.

Cell cell line and cell culture are often used interchangeably and all such designations herein include progeny. Transformants and transformed cells as well as transfectants and transfected cells include the primary subject cell and cultures derived therefrom without regard for the number of transfers. It is also understood that all progeny may not be precisely identical in DNA content due to deliberate or inadvertent mutations. Mutant progeny that have the same function or biological activity as screened for in the originally transformed cell are included. Where distinct designations are intended it will be clear from the context.

In an alternative embodiment the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide of interest may be determined by direct protein sequencing. Suitable encoding nucleotide sequences can be designed according to a universal codon table.

Amino acid sequence variants of the desired polypeptide may be prepared by introducing appropriate nucleotide changes into the encoding DNA or by peptide synthesis. Such variants include for example deletions from and or insertions into and or substitutions of residues within the amino acid sequences of the polypeptides. Any combination of deletion insertion and substitution is made to arrive at the final construct provided that the final construct possesses the desired characteristics. The amino acid changes also may alter post translational processes of the polypeptide such as changing the number or position of glycosylation sites.

Nucleic acid molecules encoding amino acid sequence variants of the polypeptide are prepared by a variety of methods known in the art. These methods include but are not limited to isolation from a natural source in the case of naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants or preparation by oligonucleotide mediated or site directed mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared variant or a non variant version of the polypeptide.

The invention also provides isolated nucleic acid encoding polypeptides of the invention optionally operably linked to control sequences recognized by a host cell vectors and host cells comprising the nucleic acids and recombinant techniques for the production of the polypeptides which may comprise culturing the host cell so that the nucleic acid is expressed and optionally recovering the polypeptide from the host cell culture or culture medium.

For recombinant production of the polypeptide the nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide is isolated and inserted into a replicable vector for further cloning amplification of the DNA or for expression. DNA encoding the polypeptide is readily isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures e.g. by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the polypeptide . Many vectors are available. The vector components generally include but are not limited to one or more of the following a signal sequence an origin of replication one or more selective marker genes an enhancer element a promoter and a transcription termination sequence.

 1 Signal sequence component The polypeptides of this invention may be produced recombinantly not only directly but also as a fusion polypeptide with a heterologous polypeptide which is preferably a signal sequence or other polypeptide having a specific cleavage site at the N terminus of the mature protein or polypeptide. The signal sequence selected preferably is one that is recognized and processed i.e. cleaved by a signal peptidase by the host cell. If prokaryotic host cells do not recognize and process the native polypeptide signal sequence the signal sequence may be substituted by a signal sequence selected for example from the group of the pectate lyase e.g. pelB alkaline phosphatase penicillinase 1 pp or heat stable enterotoxin II leaders. For yeast secretion the native signal sequence may be substituted by e.g. the yeast invertase leader a factor leader including and factor leaders or acid phosphatase leader the glucoamylase leader or the signal described in WO90 13646. In mammalian cell expression mammalian signal sequences as well as viral secretory leaders for example the herpes simplex gD signal are available.

 2 Origin of replication component Each of expression and cloning vectors contain a nucleic acid sequence that enables the vector to replicate in one or more selected host cells. Generally in cloning vectors this sequence is one that enables the vector to replicate independently of the host chromosomal DNA and includes origins of replication or autonomously replicating sequences. Such sequences are well known for a variety of bacteria yeast and viruses. The origin of replication from the plasmid pBR322 is suitable for most Gram negative bacteria the 2 m plasmid origin is suitable for yeast and various viral origins are useful for cloning vectors in mammalian cells. Generally the origin of replication component is not needed for mammalian expression vectors the SV40 origin may typically be used only because it contains the early promoter .

 3 Selective marker component Expression and cloning vectors may contain a selective gene also termed a selectable marker. Typical selection genes encode proteins that a confer resistance to antibiotics or other toxins e.g. ampicillin neomycin methotrexate tetracycline G418 geneticin histidinol or mycophenolic acid b complement auxotrophic deficiencies or c supply critical nutrients not available from complex media e.g. the gene encoding D alanine racemase from

One example of a selection scheme utilizes a drug to arrest growth of a host cell. Those cells that are successfully transformed with a heterologous gene produce a protein conferring drug resistance and thus survive the selection regimen. Examples of such dominant selection use the drugs methotrexate neomycin histidinol puromycin mycophenolic acid and hygromycin.

Another example of suitable selectable markers for mammalian cells are those that enable the identification of cells competent to take up the polypeptide encoding nucleic acid such as DHFR thymidine kinase metallothionein I and II preferably primate metallothionein genes adenosine deaminase ornithine decarboxylase etc.

For example cells transformed with the DHFR selection gene are first identified by culturing all of the transformants in a culture medium that contains methotrexate Mtx a competitive antagonist of DHFR. An appropriate host cell when wild type DHFR is employed is the Chinese hamster ovary CHO cell line deficient in DHFR activity.

Alternatively host cells particularly wild type hosts that contain endogenous DHFR transformed or co transformed with DNA sequences encoding the polypeptide of the invention wild type DHFR protein and another selectable marker such as aminoglycoside 3 phosphotransferase APH can be selected by cell growth in medium containing a selection agent for the selectable marker such as an aminoglycoside antibiotic e.g. kanamycin neomycin or G418. See U.S. Pat. No. 4 965 199.

A suitable selection gene for use in yeast is the trp1 gene present in the yeast plasmid YRp7 Stinchcomb et al. Nature 282 39 1979 . The trp1 gene provides a selection marker for a mutant strain of yeast lacking the ability to grow in tryptophan for example ATCC No. 44076 or PEP4 1. Jones Genetics 85 12 1977 . The presence of the trp1 lesion in the yeast host cell genome then provides an effective environment for detecting transformation by growth in the absence of tryptophan. Similarly Leu2 deficient yeast strains ATCC 20 622 or 38 626 are complemented by known plasmids bearing the Leu2 gene. Ura3 deficient yeast strains are complemented by plasmids bearing the ura3 gene.

In addition vectors derived from the 1.6 m circular plasmid pKD1 can be used for transformation of yeasts. Alternatively an expression system for large scale production of recombinant calf chymosin was reported for Van den Berg Bio Technology 8 135 1990 . Stable multi copy expression vectors for secretion of mature recombinant human serum albumin by industrial strains of have also been disclosed Fleer et al Bio Technology 9 968 975 1991 .

 4 Promoter component Expression and cloning vectors usually contain a promoter that is recognized by the host organism and is operably linked to the polypeptide encoding nucleic acid. Promoters suitable for use with prokaryotic hosts include the arabinose e.g. araB promoter phoA promoter lactamase and lactose promoter systems alkaline phosphatase a tryptophan trp promoter system and hybrid promoters such as the tac promoter. However other known bacterial promoters are suitable. Promoters for use in bacterial systems also will contain a Shine Dalgarno S.D. sequence operably linked to the DNA encoding the polypeptide of the invention.

Promoter sequences are known for eukaryotes. Virtually all eukaryotic genes have an AT rich region located approximately 25 to 30 bases upstream from the site where transcription is initiated. Another sequence found 70 to 80 bases upstream from the start of transcription of many genes is a CNCAAT region where N may be any nucleotide. At the 3 end of most eukaryotic genes is an AATAAA sequence that may be the signal for addition of the poly A tail to the 3 end of the coding sequence. All of these sequences are suitably inserted into eukaryotic expression vectors.

Examples of suitable promoting sequences for use with yeast hosts include the promoters for 3 phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes such as enolase glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase hexokinase pyruvate decarboxylase phosphofructokinase glucose 6 phosphate isomerase 3 phosphoglycerate mutase pyruvate kinase triosephosphate isomerase phosphoglucose isomerase and glucokinase.

Other yeast promoters which are inducible promoters having the additional advantage of transcription controlled by growth conditions are the promoter regions for alcohol dehydrogenase 2 isocytochrome C acid phosphatase degradative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism metallothionein glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase and enzymes responsible for maltose and galactose utilization. Suitable vectors and promoters for use in yeast expression are further described in EP 73 657. Yeast enhancers also are advantageously used with yeast promoters.

Polypeptide transcription from vectors in mammalian host cells is controlled for example by promoters obtained from the genomes of viruses such as Abelson leukemia virus polyoma virus fowlpox virus adenovirus such as Adenovirus 2 bovine papilloma virus avian sarcoma virus most preferably cytomegalovirus a retrovirus hepatitis B virus Simian Virus 40 SV40 from heterologous mammalian promoters e.g. the actin promoter or an immunoglobulin promoter from heat shock promoters provided such promoters are compatible with the host cell systems.

The early and late promoters of the SV40 virus are conveniently obtained as an SV40 restriction fragment that also contains the SV40 viral origin of replication. The immediate early promoter of the human cytomegalovirus is conveniently obtained as a HindIII E restriction fragment. A system for expressing DNA in mammalian hosts using the bovine papilloma virus as a vector is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 419 446. A modification of this system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 601 978. See also Reyes et al. Nature 297 598 601 1982 on expression of human interferon cDNA in mouse cells under the control of a thymidine kinase promoter from herpes simplex virus. Alternatively the Rous sarcoma virus long terminal repeat can be used as the promoter.

 5 Enhancer element component Transcription of a DNA encoding the polypeptide of this invention by higher eukaryotes is often increased by inserting an enhancer sequence into the vector. Many enhancer sequences are known from mammalian genes globin elastase albumin alpha fetoprotein and insulin . Typically however one will use an enhancer from a eukaryotic cell virus. Examples include the SV40 enhancer on the late side of the replication origin bp 100 270 the cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer the polyoma enhancer on the late side of the replication origin and adenovirus enhancers. See also Yaniv Nature 297 17 18 1982 on enhancing elements for activation of eukaryotic promoters. The enhancer may be spliced into the vector at a position 5 or 3 to the antibody encoding sequence but is preferably located at a site 5 from the promoter.

 6 Transcription termination component Expression vectors used in eukaryotic host cells yeast fungi insect plant animal human or nucleated cells from other multicellular organisms will also contain sequences necessary for the termination of transcription and for stabilizing the mRNA. Such sequences are commonly available from the 5 and occasionally 3 untranslated regions of eukaryotic or viral DNAs or cDNAs. These regions contain nucleotide segments transcribed as polyadenylated fragments in the untranslated portion of the mRNA encoding antibody. One useful transcription termination component is the bovine growth hormone polyadenylation region. See WO94 11026 and the expression vector disclosed therein. Another is the mouse immunoglobulin light chain transcription terminator.

 7 Selection and transformation of host cells Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing the DNA in the vectors herein are the prokaryote yeast or higher eukaryote cells described above. Suitable prokaryotes for this purpose include eubacteria such as Gram negative or Gram positive organisms for example Enterobacteriaceae such as e.g. e.g. e.g. and as well as such as and e.g. 41 P disclosed in DD 266 710 published Apr. 12 1989 such as and . One preferred cloning host is 294 ATCC 31 446 although other strains such as B X1776 ATCC 31 537 and W3110 ATCC 27 325 are suitable. These examples are illustrative rather than limiting.

In addition to prokaryotes eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous fungi or yeast are suitable cloning or expression hosts for antibody encoding vectors. or common baker s yeast is the most commonly used among lower eukaryotic host microorganisms. However a number of other genera species and strains are commonly available and useful herein such as hosts such as e.g. ATCC 12 424 ATCC 16 045 ATCC 24 178 ATCC 56 500 ATCC 36 906 and EP 402 226 EP 183 070 EP 244 234 such as and filamentous fungi such as e.g. and hosts such as and

Suitable host cells for the expression of polypeptides are derived from multicellular organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant and insect cells. Numerous baculoviral strains and variants and corresponding permissive insect host cells from hosts such as caterpillar mosquito mosquito fruitfly and have been identified. A variety of viral strains for transfection are publicly available e.g. the L 1 variant of NPV and the Bm 5 strain of NPV and such viruses may be used as the virus herein according to the present invention particularly for transfection of cells.

Plant cell cultures of cotton corn potato soybean petunia tomato tobacco lemna and other plant cells can also be utilized as hosts.

Examples of useful mammalian host cell lines are Chinese hamster ovary cells including CHOK1 cells ATCC CCL61 DXB 11 DG 44 and Chinese hamster ovary cells DHFR CHO Urlaub et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4216 1980 monkey kidney CV1 line transformed by SV40 COS 7 ATCC CRL 1651 human embryonic kidney line 293 or 293 cells subcloned for growth in suspension culture Graham et al. J. Gen Virol. 36 59 1977 baby hamster kidney cells BHK ATCC CCL 10 mouse sertoli cells TM4 Mather Biol. Reprod. 23 243 251 1980 monkey kidney cells CV1 ATCC CCL 70 African green monkey kidney cells VERO 76 ATCC CRL 1587 human cervical carcinoma cells HELA ATCC CCL 2 canine kidney cells MDCK ATCC CCL 34 buffalo rat liver cells BRL 3A ATCC CRL 1442 human lung cells W138 ATCC CCL 75 human liver cells Hep G2 HB 8065 mouse mammary tumor MMT 060562 ATCC CCL51 TRI cells Mather et al. Annals N.Y Acad. Sci. 383 44 68 1982 MRC 5 cells FS4 cells and a human hepatoma line Hep G2 .

Host cells are transformed or transfected with the above described expression or cloning vectors for polypeptide production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for inducing promoters selecting transformants or amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences. In addition novel vectors and transfected cell lines with multiple copies of transcription units separated by a selective marker are particularly useful and preferred for the expression of polypeptides.

 8 Culturing the host cells The host cells used to produce the polypeptides of this invention may be cultured in media suitable for promoting growth in the cell expression system utilized. Yeast and baceterial cells may be expressed using media well known in the art such as defined media undefined media or dropout media e.g. lacking certain amino acids or sugars for selection of cells as appropriate for the expression system used. Commercially available media such as Ham s F10 Sigma Minimal Essential Medium MEM Sigma RPMI 1640 Sigma and Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium DMEM Sigma are suitable for culturing mammalian host cells. In addition any of the media described in Ham et al. Meth. Enz. 58 44 1979 Barnes et al. Anal. Biochem. 102 255 1980 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 767 704 4 657 866 4 927 762 4 560 655 or 5 122 469 WO90103430 WO 87 00195 or U.S. Pat. Re. No. 30 985 may be used as culture media for the host cells. Any of these media may be supplemented as necessary with hormones and or other growth factors such as insulin transferrin or epidermal growth factor salts such as sodium chloride calcium magnesium and phosphate buffers such as HEPES nucleotides such as adenosine and thymidine antibiotics such as GENTAMYCIN drug trace elements defined as inorganic compounds usually present at final concentrations in the micromolar range and glucose or an equivalent energy source. Any other necessary supplements may also be included at appropriate concentrations that would be known to those skilled in the art. The culture conditions such as temperature pH and the like are those previously used with the host cell selected for expression and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.

 9 Purification of polypeptides When using recombinant techniques the polypeptide can be produced intracellularly in the periplasmic space or directly secreted into the medium including from microbial cultures. If the polypeptide is produced intracellularly as a first step the particulate debris either host cells or lysed fragments is removed for example by centrifugation or ultrafiltration. Better et al. Science 240 1041 43 1988 ICSU Short Reports 10 105 1990 and Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 457 461 1993 describe a procedure for isolating antibodies which are secreted to the periplasmic space of . See also Carter et al. Bio Technology 10 163 167 1992 .

The polypeptide composition prepared from microbial or mammalian cells can be purified using for example hydroxylapatite chromatography cation or anion exchange chromatography and affinity chromatography with affinity chromatography being a preferred purification technique. Mechanically stable matrices such as controlled pore glass or poly styrenedivinyl benzene allow for faster flow rates and shorter processing times than can be achieved with agarose. Other techniques for protein purification such as fractionation on an ion exchange column ethanol precipitation Reverse Phase HPLC chromatography on silica chromatography on heparin SEPHAROSE chromatography on an anion or cation exchange resin such as a polyaspartic acid column chromatofocusing SDS PAGE ammonium sulfate precipitation and immunoaffinity are also available depending on the polypeptide to be recovered.

In one embodiment the invention contemplates an antibody that is specifically reactive with the polypeptides described herein. As used herein antibody refers to an antibody or fragment thereof or a polypeptide comprising an antigen binding domain of an antibody. Exemplary antibodies or antibody fragments include polyclonal antibodies monoclonal antibodies chimeric antibodies humanized antibodies human antibodies multispecific antibodies Fab Fab F ab 2 Fv domain antibody dAb complementarity determining region CDR fragments CDR grafted antibodies single chain antibodies scFv single chain antibody fragments chimeric antibodies diabodies triabodies tetrabodies minibody linear antibody chelating recombinant antibody a tribody or bibody an intrabody a nanobody a small modular immunopharmaceutical SMIP a antigen binding domain immunoglobulin fusion protein a camelized antibody a VHH containing antibody or a variant or a derivative thereof and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an immunoglobulin that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to the polypeptide such as one two three four five or six CDR sequences.

As used herein an antibody that specifically binds is antigen specific is specific for antigen target or is immunoreactive with an antigen refers to an antibody that binds an antigen with greater affinity than other antigens of similar sequence. In one aspect the antibodies contemplated or fragments variants or derivatives thereof will bind with a greater affinity to target antigen as compared to its binding affinity to similar antigens derived form other sources e.g. other species but antibodies that recognize and bind orthologs of the target are within the scope of the invention.

Immunoglobulins can be assigned to different classes IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM which may be further divided into subclasses or isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known. An antibody contemplated herein if it comprises a constant domain may be of any of these subclasses or isotypes.

Various procedures known in the art may be used for the production of polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies to the polypeptide of the invention. For the production of antibodies various host animals including but not limited to rabbits mice rats hamsters and the like are immunized by injection with a polypeptide described herein. Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species including but not limited to Freund s complete and incomplete adjuvant mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions oil emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins dinitrophenol and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG Bacille Calmette Guerin and

Monoclonal antibodies may be made by techniques well known in the art including but not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by K hler et al. 256 495 497 1975 and the more recent human B cell hybridoma technique Kosbor et al. 4 72 1983 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. Alan R Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 1985 or by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 all specifically incorporated herein by reference . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in for example Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 .

In addition to the production of monoclonal antibodies techniques developed for the production of chimeric antibodies e.g. the splicing of an antibody gene from one species to antibody genes of another species to obtain a molecule with appropriate antigen specificity and biological activity can be used Morrison et al. 81 6851 6855 1984 Neuberger et al. 312 604 608 1984 Takeda et al. 314 452 454 1985 . Alternatively techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 can be adapted to produce antibodies.

Antibody fragments that contain the idiotype of the molecule may be generated by known techniques. For example such fragments include but are not limited to the F ab fragment which may be produced by pepsin digestion the Fab fragments which may be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab fragment and the two Fab fragments which may be generated by treating the antibody molecule with papain and a reducing agent. Additionally using techniques known in the art to isolate CDRs compositions comprising CDRs are generated. CDRs are characterized by six polypeptide loops three loops for each of the heavy or light chain variable regions. The amino acid position in a CDR is defined by Kabat et al. Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 1983 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Screening assays to determine binding specificity of an antibody for use in the methods of the invention are well known and routinely practiced in the art. For a comprehensive discussion of such assays see Harlow et al. Eds Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1988 Chapter 6. Antibodies for use in the invention can be produced using any method known in the art.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

The CoA thioesterification of 3R 1 and 3S 1 as we as product purification was performed in the similar way as previously described Gu et al. 128 28 9014 9015 2006 and Geders et al. 282 35954 35963 2007 . For both 3R 1 CoA and 3S 1 CoA MS ESI calculated for M H 1022.32 found 1022.28.

Based on alignments of KR domains the CurL and CurM KR domains contain the LDD motif indicating that they catalyze formation B type hydroxyl groups. Chirality of the carbon atom bearing the methoxyl group in curacin A confirms the prediction for CurL KR stereospecificity.

To identify cosmids containing the 3 end of cur gene cluster the previous cosmid genomic library of strain L19 Chang et al 296 235 247 2002 was screened by PCR using an oligonucleotide primer pair to amplify the curM ST gene F 5 GGA TGC GGA TGC AAA AAC TTG 3 SEQ ID NO 6 and R 5 CGG ATG CAA AAA CTT GTC GGG 3 SEQ ID NO 7 . Two cosmids pLM14 and pLM19 in addition to pLM17 were identified to contain curM ST. These three cosmids were also examined by comparing their restriction enzyme digestion patterns. The pLM14 was chosen to be sequenced by primer walking method for the 3 end of curM and the flanking region. The new sequence was compared with the genome sequencing data unpublished and is SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid sequence and SEQ ID NO 2 DNA sequence .

CurM ACP ST and TE genes were amplified from the pLM14. The CurM ACP and TE genes were inserted into pET24b plasmid at the NdeI and NotI restriction sites. The CurM ST gene was inserted into pET28b plasmid with NdeI and BamHI restriction sites. All the constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. The primers for the plasmid construction are ACP F 5 ACA GAC GAA CGC ATT TTA G 3 SEQ ID NO 8 ACP R 5 T AAG CTT GTT GGA GAT GG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 ST F 5 ATC TTT GCA ACC AAA AGT TCA 3 SEQ ID NO 10 ST R 5 TTA TTG AGG CTG TTG ATT TGT CG 3 SEQ ID NO 16 TE F 5 CAA GTC TCT ACA ACT CCC T 3 SEQ ID NO 17 and TE R 5 G GAT GTT AAG ATA AGT GAT GC 3 SEQ ID NO 18 .

Protein purifications were performed at 4 C. cells were harvested by centrifugation 5 000 g 15 min 4 C. resuspended in ice cold lysis buffer A 50 mM PBS buffer pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl 10 mM imidazole 20 glycerol and disrupted by sonication on ice. The cell debris was removed by centrifugation at 15 000 g for 50 min. The supernatant was gently removed and loaded onto the 5 ml HisTrap column GE Healthcare pre equilibrated with lysis buffer A. The resin was washed successively with 10 column volumes of the washing buffer B 50 mM PBS buffer pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl 20 mM imidazole 10 glycerol to remove nonspecifically bound contaminants. Bound proteins were eluted with imidazole by a linear gradient of the elution buffer C 50 mM PBS buffer pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl 250 mM imidazole 20 glycerol . The eluate fractions were examined by SDS PAGE for purity pooled and concentrated using Amicon Ultra 15 10 kDa or 5 kDa centrifugal devices Millipore . The concentrated eluate was loaded onto HiLoad 26 60 Superdex 200 column GE Healthcare equilibrated with the storage buffer D 50 mM PBS buffer pH 7.5 200 mM NaCl 20 glycerol . The fractions were pooled concentrated flash frozen in 50 100 l aliquots in liquid N and stored at 80 C. for future use. The purity of the proteins was analyzed by SDS PAGE and the protein concentrations were determined using the Bradford assay Bio Rad .

The 3R 1 ACP and 3S 1 ACP substrates were prepared by loading the 3R 1 CoA and 3S 1 CoA onto the apo CurM ACP by using Svp. Briefly 500 M acyl CoA and 50 M apo ACP were incubated with 10 M Svp and 10 mM MgClin 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.1 at room temperature for about 2 h. Reaction mixtures were desalted by PD10 column equilibrated with buffer D. The desalted acyl ACPs were concentrated by using Amicon Ultra 4 5 kDa Millipore flash frozen in 10 50 l aliquots in liquid N and stored at 80 C. The ACP samples were analyzed by reverse phase HPLC using a Jupiter C4 column 250 2.0 mm 5 m 300 Phenomenex and a linear elution gradient from 5 to 100 of CHCN 0.1 CFCOH HO 0.1 CFCOH .

HPLC based analyses of the TE hydrolysis were performed using XBridge C18 column 4.6 250 mm 5 m Waters on the Gold HPLC system equipped with an autosampler and controlled by 32 Karat software Beckman Coulter . Samples were eluted with a linear gradient from 10 to 90 of MeOH HO 10 mM CHCONH . For steady state kinetic studies. TE hydrolysis was examined in 40 l 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.0 with 100 M 200 M 500 M 1000 M and 2000 M 3R 1 CoA or 3S 1 CoA. 1.25 M TE was incubated with the CoA substrates at room temperature for 10 min before quenched by 40 l 1M CHCOH. The reaction mixtures were then added with isovaleryl CoA as an internal standard before filtered by Microcon YM 10 Millipore neutralized by 20 l 1M NaOH and stored at 80 C. before HPLC analysis. Control reactions without enzymes were run at the same time. The TE hydrolysis reaction was measured by consumption of CoA substrates. The HPLC peak areas of CoA substrates were normalized based on the internal standards.

The ST and TE assays were performed using R 1 ACP and 3S 1 ACP substrates. Typically for the ST reactions about 300 M ACP linked substrate was added with 2 M ST and 2 mM PAPS in 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.0 . For the TE reactions about 300 M ACP linked substrate was added with 2 M TE in 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.0 . All the reactions were incubated at room temperature quenched by addition of 10 formic acid and analyzed by reverse phase HPLC using Jupiter C4 column. The ACP fractions were collected lyophilized and analyzed by FTICR MS and IRMPD. To detect products cleaved from ACP by LC MS the reaction mixtures were filtered Microcon YM 10 to remove the enzymes. The samples were loaded onto XBridge C18 column 2.1 150 mm 3.5 m Waters and LC MS analysis was performed on a Surveyor HPLC system equipped with a ESI LTQ mass spectrometer Thermo Scientific . For the coupled ST TE reactions the products were extracted with 2 2 ml hexane and dried under nitrogen prior to GC MS analysis.

The samples and authentic standard were analyzed by a 6890N gas chromatograph equipped with a 5973 mass selective quadrupole detector Agilent . The butylamides were separated on a HP 5MS Agilent J W capillary column 30 m 250 m 0.25 m which was operated with helium carrier gas and splitless injection. Both the injector and detector temperatures were set as 250 C. After an initial setting at 50 C. the oven temperature was raised to 300 C. at 6 C. min and held for 20 minutes. Total ion chromatograms were recorded using a mass range of 60 420 amu and the selective ion chromatograms were recorded by monitoring the two to three most abundant masses plus the parent masses of target compounds.

The observed and calculated masses for the ACP samples are listed in Table 4. Preparation of ACP samples for FTICR MS analysis was performed as previously described in Gu et al. 318 970 974 2007 All samples were analyzed with an actively shielded 7 Tesla quadrupole FTICR mass spectrometer APEX Q Bruker Daltonics . Target analytes in electrospray solution 1 1 CHCN HO with 0.1 HCOOH were directly infused into an electrospray ionization ESI source Apollo II Bruker Daltonics operating in positive ion mode at a flow rate of 70 L h and a voltage of 3.8 kV. A counterflow of hot 240 C. nitrogen gas was applied to assist desolvation of ESI droplets. Multiply protonated ions generated by ESI were externally accumulated in a hexapole and transferred via high voltage ion optics to the ICR cell for analysis. For IRMPD precursor ions were mass selectively accumulated in the hexapole with a 5 10 m z quadrupole isolation window transferred to the ICR cell and irradiated for 100 200 ms by 10.6 m photons at 10 W laser power 25 W COlaser Synrad . All data were acquired with XMASS software version 6.1 Bruker Daltonics in broadband mode from m z 200 to 2000 with 512 k data points and summed over 10 30 scans. Mass spectra were analyzed with the MIDAS analysis software. For accurate mass determination ubiquitin Sigma peaks on charge state of 10 11 ubiquitin was spiked into the ESI solution prior to analysis was used as internal calibrants to determine the mass of apo ACP. Once the exact mass of apo ACP had been determined its 11 and 13 charge states were selected as external standards for further calibration ubiquitin was not spiked into all reactions . All frequency to m z calibrations were performed with a two term calibration equation.

Inserts for CurM ACP residues 1514 1592 ST residues 1598 1917 and TE residues 1929 2211 were generated by polymerase chain reaction amplification from the cosmid pLM14 28 . ACP and ST were inserted into pMCSG7 29 and TE into pMoCR 30 containing the fusion Mocr to enhance solubility. All constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. The plasmids were transformed into BL21 DE3 cells and grown at 37 C. in 500 mL TB with 4 glycerol in 2 L baffle flasks until an ODof 1.0. Trace metals 50 M FeCl 20 M CaCl 10 M MnCl 10 M ZnSO 2 M CoCl 2 M CuCl 2 M NiCl 2 M NaMoO 2 M NaSeO 2 M HBO were added when growing the ACP. The temperature was lowered to 18 C. and IPTG was added to a final concentration of 0.2 mM. The culture grew for an additional 18 hours the cells were harvested by centrifugation and frozen at 20 C. Selenomethionyl SeMet protein was produce in BL21 DE3 in SelenoMet Medium AthenaES containing 100 g mL seleno DL methionine. Site directed mutagenesis was performed using the QuickChange protocol Stratagene and confirmed by DNA sequencing.

Performing all steps at 4 C. unless noted the cell pellet from 500 mL of cell culture was re suspended in 40 mL Buffer A 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 500 mM NaCl 20 mM imidazole and 10 glycerol . DNase 2 mg lysozyme 5 mg and MgCl 4 mM final concentration were added and incubated for 30 min. The cells were lysed by sonication and the lysate cleared by centrifugation. The supernatant was filtered through 0.45 m filters and loaded onto a 5 mL HisTrap Ni NTA resin column GE Healthcare . The column was washed with 8 column volumes Buffer A. The proteins eluted around 150 mM imidazole by a linear gradient up to 650 mM imidazole Buffer B . The 6 His Mocr fusion on the TE was removed by incubating the pooled fractions with 1 mM DTT and 2 w w tobacco etch virus TEV protease for two hours at room temperature. The imidazole was removed by dialysis overnight at 4 C. in Buffer C 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 500 mM NaCl 10 glycerol with 1 mM DTT. The reaction mixture was loaded again on the HisTrap column and the flow through fractions were collected and pooled. All proteins were further purified by size exclusion chromatography with a HiLoad 16 60 Superdex 200 GE Healthcare pre equilibrated with Buffer C. Fractions were pooled and concentrated to 5 mg mL flash frozen in liquid N and stored at 80 C. The SeMet derivative of the TE was purified as described above with 2 mM DTT added to all buffers. 500 mL of culture yielded 5 mg of purified TE 2 mg of SeMet TE 10 mg of ACP and 20 mg of ST.

Crystals of CurM TE were grown at 4 C. within 24 48 hours in hanging drops using the vapor diffusion method. Protein solution containing 2 mg mL protein 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 200 mM NaCl and 2.5 glycerol was mixed in equal volumes with well solution containing 27 32 PEG3350 100 mM Tris pH 8.3 8.5. Micro seeding from native crystals was required for crystal growth of the SeMet protein in similar conditions. Crystals were transferred into cryo protection solution containing well solution with 15 glycerol harvested in loops and flash frozen in liquid N.

Data were collected at GM CA CAT beamline 23ID D at the Advanced Photon Source APS at Argonne National Lab Argonne Ill. . Among 25 SeMet TE crystals only one diffracted beyond 4 but had multiple lattices in the diffraction and two distinct crystals. A region visually identified as a single crystal was probed in three 10 m steps using a 20 m mini beam 31 . The center position was chosen for the best diffraction with the least interference from the second lattice and data were collected in inverse beam geometry 0 90 and 180 270 as wedges of 45 with 1 images . The diffraction images showed significant radiation damage so a different region of the sample was probed in a perpendicular orientation. The crystal was rotate 90 from the initial raster and now looking into the loop visual identification of a region with a single crystal was impossible. Two separate regions in this orientation were rastered in 3 by 3 boxes in steps of 10 m with the 10 m collimator. From these rasters a single lattice position was identified where data were collected again in inverse beam geometry 90 150 and 270 330 as 30 wedges with 0.5 images . The two partial datasets were indexed separately resulting in similar unit cell constants and scaled together all using the HKL2000 suite 32 to yield a complete SAD dataset. The SeMet TE structure was solved using SOLVE RESOLVE 33 34 in the PHENIX software suite. 28 Se sites were found average figure of merit FOM 0.401 . After density modification and fourfold noncrystallographic symmetry averaging in RESOLVE the figure of merit was 0.81. AUTOBUILD 35 was used to build an 86 complete initial model which was completed manually in COOT 36 . REFMAC5 from the CCP4 suite was used for refinement with TLS 37 39 .

Similar ACP ST TE sequences were identified by a BLAST search into the NCBI protein database. ClustalW was used to perform the multiple sequence alignment 40 . Pymol was used to align structures and to prepare structure illustrations 41 . CurM TE was aligned with affinity labeled PikTE PDB code 2H7X RMS 3.309 by superposition of the core domains residues 55 176 and 232 292 in PikTE to residues 1 126 and 217 282 in CurTE . The PRODRG2 server 42 was used to generate initial atomic coordinates and a topology file for the predicted tetrahedral intermediate. The intermediate was modeled using the affinity label in the active site of PikTE PDB code 2H7X 25 26 as a guide.

The substrate loaded ACP was prepared by loading 3 hydroxy 5 methoxytetradecanoyl CoA 28 onto the apo ACP using Svp 43 . 50 M ACP and 100 M 3 hydroxy 5 methoxytetradecanoyl CoA were incubated with 10 M Svp and 10 mM MgClin 100 mM Tris pH 7.9 at 30 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was exchanged into Buffer C concentrated to 550 M ACP using Amicon Ultra 10 kDa concentrators Millipore flash frozen in 20 L aliquots and stored at 80 C. Loading efficiency was analyzed by HPLC using the protocol described in the activity assay.

TE activity was assayed using a modification of the protocol developed by Gu et. al. 28 . To generate the sulfated substrate for the TE assay 225 M loaded ACP was incubated with 5 M ST 1.75 mM PAPS Sigma in 100 mM Tris pH 7.9 at room temperature for 10 min. Four M TE was then added to the mixture and the reaction was quenched with 10 formic acid after 1 min. The samples were analyzed by reverse phase HPLC using a Jupiter C4 column 250 2.0 mm 5 m 300 Phenomenex and a linear elution gradient from 30 to 90 CHCN 0.1 CFCOH HO 0.1 CFCO2H over 45 min.

Additional features and variations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the entirety of this application including the detailed description and all such features are intended as aspects of the invention. Likewise features of the invention described herein can be re combined into additional embodiments that also are intended as aspects of the invention irrespective of whether the combination of features is specifically mentioned above as an aspect or embodiment of the invention. Also only such limitations which are described herein as critical to the invention should be viewed as such variations of the invention lacking limitations which have not been described herein as critical are intended as aspects of the invention.

