---

title: Electronic program guide generation
abstract: An electronic program guide may be provided. A plurality of encoded content streams may be received along with associated program guide information. The content streams may be re-modulated and associated with new channel assignments. Program guide entries for the content streams may be created and/or updated to reflect the new channel assignments. The re-modulated content streams and program guide entries may then be distributed to a plurality of display devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313542&OS=09313542&RS=09313542
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09313542
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100325
---
Program guide generation is an electronically implemented process for mapping content information associated with one distribution scheme to another distribution scheme. In some situations electronic program guides may be used to identify times and programs associated with channels in a content distribution scheme such as may be used by a cable television network. If the content is remapped to a new distribution scheme e.g. by reassigning channel numbers the program guide provided with the content may appear inaccurate. The conventional solutions have been to not provide the program guide or to display the program guide with inaccurate channel information. This often causes problems as viewers of the content may be unable to easily locate the content they wish to watch.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for generating an electronic program guide. A plurality of encoded content streams may be received along with associated program guide information. The content streams may be re modulated and associated with new channel assignments. Program guide entries for the content streams may be created and or updated to reflect the new channel assignments. The re modulated content streams and program guide entries may then be distributed to a plurality of display devices.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the invention s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for a method of generating an electronic programming guide. An electronic program guide EPG may be created via a re modulation device or via a secondary device working in conjunction with a re modulation device that may match a channel map associated with a private content distribution network. For example a hotel environment may receive a standard cable television network CATV feed but may make use of a re modulation device to re map the channel numbers add new channels e.g. a hotel events schedule channel and or remove some content channels from the CATV feed. Televisions in a commercial environment may use a built in channel map on a per TV basis and or loaded from a common source that may allow remapping of channel numbers as they are presented on the television to the user during setup of the television. This may be done so that a commercial TV user may use a standard 2 or 3 digit channel number without needing to know the physical RF and or minor channel number.

For example in a Quadrature Amplitude modulated QAM system a physical RF channel occupies MHz of spectrum and may contain six standard definition programs. A content program may be transmitted on physical RF channel and on the first multiplexed program. This may be referred to as channel . The physical RF channel is referred to as the Major Channel number and the program number is referred to as the Minor channel number. The CATV network may map this to a virtual channel number e.g. channel but the hotel may wish to put channel on channel of the commercial televisions. The commercial television may re map channel to channel on the television though the commercial TV setup menus allowing the guest to simply tune to channel on the television and the television knows to tune to physical channel .

The local commercial TV network may receive the CATV feed through a re modulation device. The re modulation device may receive a large number of quadrature amplitude modulation QAM channels and retransmit those channels and or content on different frequencies. The CATV network may provide an EPG but that EPG may display content information associated with the virtual and or physical channel mappings used by the CATV. Thus any remappings performed prior to distributing the content through the local commercial TV network may result in inaccurate information if the CATV s EPG is used. In order for an EPG to be useful in the local commercial TV environment a translation between the channels be they physical and or virtual being output by the re modulation device and the channel map programmed into the TV for that particular commercial TV network may be used. The re modulation device or a separate device operating in conjunction with the re modulation device may thus accept a translation table that allows the EPG channel listing to be modified to match what is programmed in the hotel content distribution scheme.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Operating environment may further comprise a distribution network and a plurality of display devices A C . Distribution network may comprise an RF network for providing re modulated content and or an EPG to display devices A C . Display devices A C may comprise for example televisions projectors and or other video devices located in a commercial TV network. Consistent with embodiments of the invention display devices A C may be coupled to a set top box STB for decoding the program content and or a decoding device may be integrated into display devices A C .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may receive program guide information. For example re modulation device may receive an electronic program guide EPG from the CATV provider. The EPG may comprise information such as a physical channel a virtual channel and content information e.g. schedule duration actors content description etc .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may transcript the content stream. For example re modulation device may decrypt the content stream associated with a first physical channel and re encrypt the content stream for transmission on a new physical channel. Consistent with embodiments of the invention the content stream may remain associated with the same physical channel and or the same virtual channel. The content stream may also remain associated with the same physical channel but be assigned to a new virtual channel. The virtual channel assignments for a given physical channel may be stored and processed by for example STB and or an integrated cable card associated with display device B .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the content stream has been re modulated to a different virtual channel. For example EPG generator may determine that a re modulated content stream had been associated with virtual channel but it now associated with virtual channel thus rendering the EPG received from the CATV provider inaccurate.

If the content stream has been associated with a new virtual channel method may advance to stage where computing device may generate a new program guide entry. For example EPG generator may use a graphical display creator software module to generate colors fonts positions and other layout information for program guide information extracted from the EPG received from the CATV provider. Otherwise method may advance to stage where computing device may copy an existing program guide entry. That is EPG generator may simply copy the program guide entry from the EPG received from the CATV provider to a new EPG. Consistent with embodiments of the invention EPG generator may overlay new information on the EPG received from the CATV provider when the virtual channel differs but leave the entries alone where the virtual channel is the same to generate a new local EPG.

From stage or method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether there are any more content streams. For example re modulation device may loop through each of the content streams received from the CATV provider returning to stage and re mapping the channel information for each EPG entry as necessary.

After processing each of the content streams at stages method may advance to stage where computing device may transmit the content stream and locally generated EPG. For example re modulation device and or EPG generator may broadcast the re modulated content streams and locally generated EPG over distribution network .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether a channel assignment for one and or more of the re modulated content streams has changed. For example a configuration controlling the assignment of virtual channel numbers to each of the received content streams may be updated. Re modulation device may rely on this configuration for re modulating the incoming content streams and may detect the change in the configuration. If not method may then end at stage .

If the channel assignment change is detected method may advance to stage where computing device may update a channel map. For example re modulation device may update a stored channel map comprising information pairing physical and or virtual channel assignments associated with content streams as received from the CATV provider with physical and or virtual channel assignments associated with distributing the content streams across the local premises.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may update the program guide. For example program guide entries may be generated for the content stream s programming as described above with respect to stage for the new channel assignment. Method may then end at stage .

CATV system may comprise a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across access network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via headend and a client side customer via client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as display device A . CATV systems may provide a variety of services across access network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data may be provided to display device A via set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to CATV system may likewise be provided by STB . As illustrated in STB may comprise a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism may receive input from server side processes via access network and from customers via input devices such as a remote control device and a keyboard . Remote control device and keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . STB may also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to display device A via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner may be provided for processing video and data to and from STB and headend .

STB may also include an operating system for directing the functions of STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications. For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on display device A operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of STB for example to output the news flash to display device A at the direction of client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client application and operating system that allow client application to communicate with operating system through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer may be included on the server side of CATV system for facilitating communication between server side application server and client side STB . A middleware layer of server side application server and middleware layer of client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example of data formatting data passed between the client side and the server side may be formatted according to any other suitable formatting language or standard.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the display device A such as a television via a one way communication transport . STB may pass digital and analog video and data signaling to the display device A via communication transport . According to an embodiment bidirectional communication may be accomplished between the STB and the display device A. For example high definition multimedia interface HDMI ports on the STB and display device A allow for bidirectional data communications between the devices. STB may receive video and data from the server side of CATV system via access network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. STB may transmit data from the client side of CATV system to the server side of CATV system via access network via one data uplink. The video data downlink may comprise an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of CATV system through access network to set top box for use by STB and for distribution to display device A . The in band signaling space may operate at a variety of frequencies. According to one embodiment the in band signaling space may operate at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between access network and set top box may comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between client side set top box and server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from server side application server through access network to client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Data passed between CATV system backend components such as headend and CATV system front end components such as STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over access network .

Referring still to headend of the CATV system may be positioned on the server side of CATV system and may include hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through access network to client side STB for presentation to customers via display device A . As described above a number of services may be provided by CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

Application server may comprise a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from client side set top box via access network . As described above with reference to set top box application server may comprise middleware layer for processing and preparing data from headend of CATV system for receipt and use by client side set top box . For example application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from one and or more of a plurality of third party services via network for transmitting to a customer through access network and set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by application server via network . When application server receives the downloaded weather report middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by set top box . Data obtained and managed by middleware layer of application server may be formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and may be passed to set top box through access network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by client application in concert with middleware layer as described above. A variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by application server via distributed computing environments such as network for provision to customers via access network and set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server may obtain customer profile data from services provider data services which may comprise an implementation of profile server for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

A plurality of provider data services may include a number of services operated by the services provider of CATV system that may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between application server and data services . Web services system may serve as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . When application server requires customer profile data from one or more of data services for preparation or update of a customer profile application server passes a data query to web services system . Web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. Web services system may serve as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and application server . That is application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. Web services system may be operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to application server for ultimate processing via middleware layer as described above.

An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a content placeholder. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a plurality of channel streams each associated with a physical and or a virtual channel receive content information associated with at least one of the plurality of channel streams transcrypt at least one channel stream to associate it with a new channel associate the content information for the at least one channel streams with the new channel and generate a program guide comprising the content information associated with the at least one channel stream and the new channel. The content information associated with the at least one channel stream may be associated with the new channel according to a channel map comprising data identifying the new channel associated with an existing channel for the channel stream. For example the existing channel may comprise a physical channel of . and a virtual channel of while the new channel may comprise a physical channel of . and a virtual channel of . The new channel may be distributed across a local premises content distribution network such as may be used to distribute television content to televisions in a hotel premises. If the new channel assignment for the content stream changes the channel map may be updated to reflect the new assignment. Consistent with embodiments of the invention the channel map may be generated by the provider of the content streams and or an operator of the local premises content distribution network. The processing unit may be further operative to encode one and or more new content streams from different content providers and add program information associated with each of the new content streams to the program guide. The program information may be received from the associated content provider.

Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for creating a content placeholder marker. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a content stream associated with a virtual channel receive a guide entry comprising program information associated with the encoded content stream and the virtual channel and determine whether the encoded content stream is assigned for distribution on a different virtual channel. If so the processing unit may be operative to create a new guide entry comprising the program information associated with the encoded content stream and the different virtual channel. The determination may be made according to a channel map file comprising an entry associating the virtual channel with the different virtual channel.

The processing unit may be operative to generate the new guide entry according to a shared graphics library e.g. a graphics library used by both the local premises and the content provider and or a local graphics library e.g. a graphics library used by the local premises but not the content provider . The graphics library may comprise layout information such as positioning information fonts and or colors.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a content placeholder. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a plurality of encoded content streams receive a program guide comprising content information associated with each of the plurality of encoded content streams transcrypt at least one of the plurality of encoded content streams generate a program guide entry associated with the transcrypted at least one of the plurality of encoded content streams according to the received program guide and transmit the transcrypted at least one of the plurality of encoded content streams and the program guide entry to a plurality of display devices. The program guide entry may be generated according to a channel map comprising a first channel assignment and a second channel assignment wherein the first channel assignment comprises a channel assignment associated with the at least one of the plurality of encoded content streams prior to being transcrypted and the second channel assignment comprises a channel assignment associated with the at least one of the plurality of encoded content streams after being transcrypted. The channel assignments may comprise physical and or virtual channel assignments. The processing unit may be further operative to the processing unit is further operative to encode a new content stream add a new program guide entry associated with the new content stream and transmit the new encoded content stream and the new program guide entry to the plurality of display devices.

Computing device may be implemented using a personal computer a network computer a mainframe or other similar microcomputer based workstation. The processor may comprise any computer operating environment such as hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable sender electronic devices minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The processor may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices. Furthermore the processor may comprise a mobile terminal such as a smart phone a cellular telephone a cellular telephone utilizing wireless application protocol WAP personal digital assistant PDA intelligent pager portable computer a hand held computer a conventional telephone a wireless fidelity Wi Fi access point or a facsimile machine. The aforementioned systems and devices are examples and the processor may comprise other systems or devices.

As described herein methods and systems are provided for generating an electronic programming guide. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

