---

title: Selective nanoprobe for olfactory medicine
abstract: An apparatus is for detecting the presence of selected gaseous compounds indicative of a medical condition includes a probe having one or more sensor elements having a conductivity which is responsive to the presence of selected gaseous compounds, at least one sensor element containing a transition metal oxide selected from the group consisting of WO, beta-MoOand UO; and means for measuring the conductivity of each said sensor element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08758261&OS=08758261&RS=08758261
owner: The Research Foundation for the State University of New York
number: 08758261
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100809
---
The present application is a Divisional Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 351 171 filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Feb. 9 2006 which was a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 419 349 filed Apr. 21 2003 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support of Grant No. SGER DMR0224642 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present application relates to a method and apparatus for selectively detecting gaseous compounds.

There has been an increasing demand for electronic instruments that can mimic the human olfactory processes and which may provide low cost and rapid sensory information to hasten the process of evaluation of odors. This led to the conceptualization of an electronic nose e nose as an intelligent chemical array sensor system for odor classification. At the same time the need for biochemical detectors that are able to sense the presence of pathogens in humans and which can contribute to the early detection of diseases is high.

Although analysis of body fluids blood sputum urine for disease diagnoses and monitoring is routine clinical practice human breath analysis methodologies that exploit the non invasive nature of such diagnoses are still under developed. Since antiquity such as the time of Hippocrates exhaled breath was known to enable non invasive detection of disease.

Breath testing devices first appear in 1784 when Lavoisier detected CO in the exhaled breath of guinea pigs. Since then colorimetric assays and gas chromatography columns have been used to detect VOCs volatile organic compounds in human breath in quantities varying from millimolar 10M to picomolar 10M concentrations. The latter gas sensitivity limit was achieved by Linus Pauling s gas chromatography based breath analysis device in 1971. Among the 400 compounds of which the human breath consists only 30 have been identified by GC MS.

Various apparatus and methods for olfactometry are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 841 391 6 839 636 6 820 012 6 767 732 6 703 241 6 620 109 6 609 068 6 606 566 6 467 333 6 411 905 and 6 319 724 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. A transition metal oxide gas sensor is disclosed and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 173 602 which is herein incorporated by reference.

There are various medical uses for e nose sensors. Gas odors evolving from infections or disorders provide the pathway for chemical sensors to be used in biochemical applications. NOis a gas associated with bronchial epithelial infection arising out of tobacco smoking. Ammonia is a product of decomposition of urea. Hence chemical sensors capable of detecting these chemical species can be easily used for medical applications. The key deficiency of current sensor e nose technologies is the lack of specificity in recognizing the particular analyte gas detected.

An apparatus is provided herein for detecting the presence of selected gaseous compounds indicative of a medical condition. The apparatus comprises a probe having one or more sensor elements having a conductivity which is responsive to the presence of selected gaseous compounds at least one sensor element containing a transition metal oxide selected from the group consisting of WO beta MoOand UO and means for measuring the conductivity of each said sensor element.

The apparatus described herein is an artificial olfactory system capable of detecting selected gaseous compounds or analytes in the breath of a mammalian subject. The apparatus includes a probe having at least one sensor and preferably an array of sensors that selectively produce a measurable response in the presence of the target analyte s . A unique signature output is produced which can be analyzed by appropriate algorithms to identify the type and amount of the analyte s in the breath of the subject human or animal.

Medical studies reported recently have associated certain gaseous constituents of the human breath with specific types of diseases and have addressed the importance of diet dental pathology smoking etc. on determining the physiological levels of the biomarker concentrations in exhaled breath. Inflammation and oxidative stress can by monitored by measuring the changes in the concentration of for example NO exhaled CO which is also a marker for cardiovascular diseases diabetes nephritis bilirubin production exhaled hydrocarbons of low molecular mass such as ethane n pentane ethylene isoprene isoprene is a hydrocarbon derived from the cholesterol synthesis pathways in humans in vivo its concentration is affected by diet and can be used as a specific marker for monitoring blood cholesterol levels by sampling exhaled human breath acetone which is a marker for diabetes formaldehyde ethanol hydrogen sulfide and carbonyl sulfides indicating liver function impairment and ammonia amines the latter are signaling markers of renal diseases.

The apparatus described herein employs a probe having at least one sensor with a transition metal oxide which has a conductivity selectively changeable in response to the presence of particular analytes. The change in conductivity is believed to result from red ox reactions occurring at the surface of the oxide. Preferably an array of sensors with different transition metal oxides is employed in the probe. Each sensor produces a characteristic response to particular analytes. The individual sensor together represent a signature response which can be analyzed by appropriate algorithms to determine the presence and amounts of particular analytes. This data in turn provides information about the medical condition of the subject.

In an embodiment of the invention at least one sensor includes tungsten trioxide WO as the transition metal oxide. The WOcan have a monoclinic or orthorhombic crystal structure. Preferably additional sensors are employed in the probe to provide an array. Non limiting examples of other transition metal oxides which can be employed include molybdenum trioxide MoO which can be orthorhombic alpha MoO or monoclinic beta MoO titanium dioxide TiO tin oxide SnO chromium oxides CrO CrO iridium oxide IrO and manganese dioxide beta MnO either individually or in physical combination.

The metal oxides used in the present invention are preferably binary metal oxides that may be classified into three groups according to their crystallographic characteristics. The gases detected by these metal oxides are oxidizing or reducing gases similarly fall into three groups.

The first group of metal oxides classified herein as rutile structured metal oxides possess a rutile structure similar to that found in titanium dioxide TiO . The rutile structure is tetragonal but in some cases it has been described as a distorted hexagonal close packed oxide array with half the octahedral sites occupied by the metal. Alternative rows of octahedral sites are full and empty. The rutile structure is regarded as an ionic structure. Examples of rutile structured metal oxides include TiO SnO CrO IrOand beta MnO etc.

The second group of metal oxides classified herein as rhenium oxide structured or ReOtype metal oxides possess a cubic structure similar to that found in rhenium oxide which is closely related to the structure found in perovskite CaTiO . The unit cell of the crystal contains metal atoms at the corners with oxygen at the center edges. Metal oxides which have this structure include WO beta MoO and UOand possess a monoclinic crystal structure.

The third group of metal oxides are classified herein as alpha MoOtype metal oxides. And have a unique weakly bonded 2D layered structure. Alpha MoOis a typical representative of this group and possess an orthorhombic crystal structure.

Gases which may be detected in accordance with the present invention may similarly be placed into three categories. Type I gases are nitrogen lacking reducing gases including but not limited to CO alcohols and hydrocarbons. Type II gases are nitrogen containing reducing gases including but not limited to ammonia and amines. Finally Type III gases are oxidizing gases including but not limited to oxygen and oxides of nitrogen such as NO NO etc.

It has been found that rutile structured metal oxides are selective in their sensitivity to the nitrogen lacking reducing gases Type I the rhenium oxide ReOtype metal oxides are selective in their sensitivity to the oxidizing gases Type III and the alpha MoOtype metal oxides are selective in their sensitivity to the nitrogen containing reducing gases Type II .

The detection process of oxidizing reducing gases by semiconducting metal oxides involves the change in the conductivity of the oxide in the presence of the gas due to catalytic red ox reactions occurring at the oxides surfaces. These catalytic reactions are controlled by the electronic structure of the oxide system used as well as by the chemical composition crystal structure and relative orientation of the surfaces of the oxide phase s exposed to the gas.

Considering other oxides isostructural with MoO but with higher stability at high temperature exposures tungsten oxides have been identified as promising candidates. Contrary to what was expected the orthorhombic phase of WOdid not respond to the presence of ammonia but was very sensitive to NO see . The reason for this apparent discrepancy in the gas sensing properties of the respective polymorphs of these two oxides is believed to lie in their crystallographic differences and the specific sensing mechanism that each favors. Whereas MoOhas a layered structure with 010 basal plane that is built up of double chains of edge sharing MoO octahedra connected through vertices the orthorhombic WOis structurally similar to the ReOtype structure of monoclinic MoO phase . WOis selective to NOand similar behavior has been observed for MoO as shown below . An adsorption chemisorption based sensing mechanism is active in this case that does not affect the bonds in the metal oxide surface.

The crystal structure of WOis a distortion of rhenium oxide cubic structure in which tungsten atoms are located in cube corners and the oxygen atoms are located on the cube edges. Each tungsten atom is surrounded by six oxygen atoms forming an octahedron. The slight rotation of these octahedral with respect to each other as well as unequal bond lengths in the octahedral coordination causes lattice distortion and reduces the symmetry. The distorted structure is stable in several forms giving rise to different phases depending on the temperature. Thus WOexists in various polymorphic forms. There are at least 7 known polymorphic transformations in the temperature range of 0 to 1220 K. In bulk crystals the triclinic phase is stable below 17 C. the monoclinic phase is stable between 17 320 C. and the orthorhombic is stable from 320 720 C. above which tetragonal phase is the dominant phase. Stoichiometric WOreadily loses oxygen to form WO. When oxygen is removed from the lattice in sufficient amounts some of the octahedral change their character from corner sharing to edge sharing. In slightly reduced WO shear planes are introduced in many directions at irregular intervals.

Semiconducting metal oxides show surface sensitivity to redox reactions involving gases. For example during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions hydrogen abstraction occurs at 001 and 100 crystal phases of MoOwhile oxygen addition occurs at the 010 basal plane. The local environment of active sites available for gas adsorption hydrogen extraction or oxygen addition and the orientation of the surface containing these active sites vary for different phases of a given system and thus the catalytic behavior of these phases is variable. Oxygen basicity is found to increase with decreasing Mo O bond strength occurring at different surfaces. Surface oxygen vacancies formed under reduction conditions may influence gas adsorption processes. They may result in slightly reduced metal oxide surfaces which undergo re oxidation by gaseous oxygen adsorption based sensing or they may order and give rise to crystallographic shear structures that accommodate non stoichiometric metal oxide compositions known as Magn li phases reaction based sensing . The presence of ordered vacancies and crystallographic shear structures provides a mechanism for selective oxidation.

Considering the two main polymorphs of MoO the phase orthorhombic has a layered structure with 010 basal plane which is built up of double chains of edge sharing MoO octahedral connected through vertices while the phase monoclinic has a ReO type structure. The ReOtype structure does not contain the Van der Waals gap of the MoO. Therefore MoOupon reduction in catalysis forms the MoOstructure instead of the ReOtype MoOshear structure. It was discussed above that the phase is selective to ammonia and highly sensitive to amines which are moderate bases and the sensing mechanism is consistent with the reduction of MoOand the formation of ordered phases which suggests reaction based sensing process. Thus it seems that ammonia and amines can be best sensed by loosely bound layered oxide structures such as the orthorhombic MoOphase that enable the reaction of lattice oxygen with the gas and provide easy mechanisms for accommodating the off stoichiometric M O ratio. On the other hand oxidizing gases such as NO may be easily adsorbed on ReO type crystals. Oxidizing gases destroy oxygen defects.

CO and hydrocarbons typically react with adsorbed oxygen from the environment and may be sensed by rutile type structures such as the polymorphs of SnOand TiO. Since a given crystal structure may be sensitive to more than one gases sensing tests at different temperatures need to be carried out so as to identify the optimum operating temperature for the specific sensor. It is important to remain within the phase stability field of the particular polymorph of the oxide. As discussed above phase stability depends on the grain particle size of the sensing element oxide crystal the operating temperature and pressure conditions and the presence of impurities and these are some critical factors to consider when selecting a sensor material.

Metal oxide films can be made in various ways. In one embodiment of the invention a sol gel route is employed wherein the isopropoxide of the metals e.g. molybdenum isopropoxide tungsten isopropoxide etc. is mixed with an alkanol e.g. propanol butanol etc. to form a sol gel of the corresponding oxide e.g. MoO WO etc. . The sol gels are amorphous colloidal solutions. Such sol gels can be made in accordance with methods described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 419 349.

In another embodiment of the invention hybrid films of sol gel MoOand flame sprayed rutile TiO powders can be prepared.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a hydrothermal method of preparing e.g. WO chilled solutions of an alkali metal salt of the transition metal oxygenate e.g. sodium molybdate sodium tungstate etc. are acidified preferably with a mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid to provide the hydrated corresponding transition metal acid e.g. molybdic acid tungstic acid etc . Preferably the temperature of the alkali metal salt solution and the acid are both at the same temperature and both between 0 C. and about 20 C. preferably between 0 C. and about 10 C. and more preferably between 0 C. and about 5 C. The precipitated transition metal acid is then separated for example by centrifugation filtration and the like then washed dried and calcined to provide the crystal structure.

Orthorhombic and monoclinic phases of WOcan be obtained by varying the calcining temperature. The dried calcined metal oxides are preferably mixed with a vehicle e.g. butanol or other alkanol then spun coated onto a sensor substrate.

Referring now to an apparatus for detecting the presence of selected gaseous compounds is schematically illustrated wherein probe is electrically connected to an analyzer via electrical cable line . Probe includes at least one sensor element containing a transition metal oxide selected from the group consisting of monoclinic or orthorhombic WO monoclinic beta MoOand UO. Preferably however the probe also includes a plurality of sensor elements containing different transition metal oxides such as orthorhombic alpha MoO TiO combined MoO TiO VO CrO InO SnO MnO etc. Analyzer determines the electrical conductivity of each sensor element individually by conventional means. The multiple sensor elements provide a characteristic output signature for different analytes. Analyzer also preferably includes pattern recognition algorithms wherein the signature of the analyte being detected is compared with known signatures stored in memory for known analytes. Various algorithms and computer controlled systems for olfactometry are known and disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 411 905 6 606 566 6 609 068 6 620 109 6 839 636 6 767 732 and 6 820 012 which are herein incorporated by reference

Metal Oxide films of 150 200 nm thickness were prepared by deposition of the transition metal oxide on alumina substrates containing interdigitated gold or platinum electrodes. A gas flow bench was used for single sensor tests and a modified e nose chamber for the sensor array studies.

The films were observed under SEM under room temperature condition after heat treatments to 500 C. for different times. X ray diffraction XRD patterns were recorded using a PW 1729 Philips X ray diffractometer.

Sensing experiments were carried out in the temperature range of 200 C. to 500 C. and the gas sensitivities were plotted. The gas sensitivity S was calculated according to the following formula wherein Ris the electrical resistance of the transition metal oxide film in the presence of air.

Ris the electrical resistance of the transition metal oxide film in the presence of a gas containing the target analyte.

A sensor was fabricated from orthorhombic alpha MoOplaced in a chamber and sequentially subjected to NH CH CO H NO and NOas target analytes. The conductivity of the sensor was measured as each of the analytes was pulsed into the chamber. The results were plotted in which shows the highly selective responsiveness of the alpha MoOsensor to ammonia and the flat response non responsiveness of the sensor to the other target analytes. This Example demonstrates the ability of the alpha MoOto selectively detect ammonia and other nitrogen containing reducing gases in the presence of hydrocarbons hydrogen and oxides of carbon and or nitrogen.

A sensor was fabricated from orthorhombic WOplaced in a chamber and subjected to the target analytes as in Example 1. Surprisingly the orthorhombic WOdid not respond to the presence of ammonia but did selectively respond to nitrogen oxides. Nitrogen oxide was then pulsed into the chamber at various concentrations and the conductivity of the sensor was measured. The results are shown in which illustrates the sensitivity of the sensor to concentrations of nitrogen oxide as low as 1 ppm.

While not wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that the orthorhombic WOdiffers in selectivity from orthorhombic MoObecause of the crystallographic differences. Whereas orthorhombic MoOhas a layered structure with a 010 basal plane built up of double chains of edge sharing MoO octahedra connected through vertices the orthorhombic WOis structurally similar to the monoclinic beta MoO. Both beta MoOand orthorhombic WOare selective to nitrogen containing oxidizing gases.

Monoclinic WO designated as W2 and which appears as the lower graph and orthorhombic WO designated as W3 and which appears as the upper graph were tested for responsiveness to NO. shows X ray diffraction spectra for both of these polymorphs of WOat room temperature. Sensors were fabricated from both polymorphs and exposed to varying concentrations of NOranging from 50 ppm to 400 ppm which were pulsed into the chamber in which the sensors were positioned. shows the responsiveness to NOfor both the monoclinic WO upper W2 graph and orthorhombic WO lower W3 graph . As can be seen both polymorphs of WOresponded to NO.

A probe was fabricated with a five sensor array containing monoclinic MoOat position 1 orthorhombic MoOat position 2 orthorhombic WOat position 3 and two hybrid TiO MoOsensors i.e. TiO monoclinic MoOand TiO orthorhombic MoOat positions 4 and 5 respectively.

The probe was tested for responsiveness to acetone and ethanol. is a plot showing the pattern response of the five sensor array to acetone. The MoOsensors demonstrated no sensitivity. The WOsensor displayed some sensitivity and the hybrid TiO MoOsensors displayed sensitivity to acetone. shows a pattern response of the five sensor array to exposure to ethanol. As can be seen the MoOsensors displayed no sensitivity. The WOsensor exhibited a noticeable response to ethanol and the hybrid TiO MoOsensors exhibited great sensitivity to ethanol.

Sensors fabricated from orthorhombic WOand monoclinic MoOwere subjected to exposure to NO NHand CO at 400 C. The responses were measured and plotted in . As can be seen from the WOsensor was selectively responsive to NObut not NHor CO. shows that monoclinic MoOis highly responsive to NObut less responsive to NHand non responsive to CO.

While the above description contains many specifics these specifics should not be construed as limitations of the invention but merely as exemplifications of preferred embodiments thereof. Those skilled in the art will envision many other embodiments within the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the claims appended hereto.

