---

title: Triaxial MEMS acceleration switch
abstract: A MEMS contact acceleration switch may include a first non-conductive layer; a second, conductive layer next to the first layer; and a third, conductive layer next to the second layer. The third layer may include a generally circular, annular mass and a center anchor post disposed interior of the annular mass. At least one spiral spring may connect the annular mass to the center anchor post. The third layer may include an x-y plane detection electrode separated from the annular mass by a gap. A fourth conductive layer may be disposed next to the third layer. A fifth layer may be disposed next to the fourth layer and may include a z-axis detection electrode. A second z-axis detection electrode may be disposed on the first layer. A plurality of conductive vias may extend through the first layer and be in electrical communication with the detection electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08237521&OS=08237521&RS=08237521
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08237521
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to inertial switches and in particular to small electro mechanical inertial switches.

Acceleration detectors for commercial and military uses are known. Commercial uses include detecting impacts of colliding objects detecting changes in vehicle speed and detecting vibration events. Military uses include detecting impact of a munition with a target detecting launch of a munition from a gun and detecting the spin of a munition. Examples of acceleration detectors include accelerometers and threshold contact switches.

Some acceleration detectors are single direction mass spring systems in which a mass moves relative to an internal sensing element. In the case of accelerometers a change in electrical voltage corresponding to the position of the mass provides information about the acceleration or G level. In the case of a threshold contact switch an open state may indicate that the mass has not moved and a closed state may indicate that the mass has moved and closed a gap due to an external acceleration. The mass movement or lack thereof may indicate that the predetermined G level has or has not been exceeded.

Both accelerometers and threshold contact switches may be used in fuzing applications. An advantage of a threshold contact switch compared to an accelerometer is that a threshold contact switch may require no continuous electric power or signal processing. The absence of power and processing may reduce the complexity of the fuze electronics. For a contact switch only two contacts may need to be monitored to determine switch closure. The mechanical nature of the contact switch may allow acceleration thresholds to be fixed to a predetermined level by adjusting mechanical features internal to the switch. The adjustable mechanical features may include for example gaps springs masses and volumes.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 765 160 hereinafter 160 issued on Jul. 20 2004 to Robinson discloses an omnidirectional microscale impact switch. The 160 switch may not have equal sensitivity or response for all azimuths in the x y plane. The pathways for the electrical signals in the 160 switch may not allow for rapid solder flow mounting on a printed circuit board. In addition the substrate etching needed to create a z axis gap may be time consuming and or impractical. The metal pattern required for the z axis contact electrode may also be time consuming and or difficult to create in the etched substrate trench. A need exists for an improved triaxial MEMS acceleration switch.

It is an object of the invention to provide a triaxial MEMS acceleration switch having equal sensitivity or response for all azimuths in the x y plane.

It is another object of the invention to provide a triaxial MEMS acceleration switch that may be rapidly and easily mounted on a printed circuit board.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a triaxial MEMS acceleration switch that requires less time to fabricate.

One aspect of the invention is a MEMS contact acceleration switch that may include five layers. A first layer may be made of a non conductive material. A second layer may be disposed next to the first layer and may be a spacer layer made of a conductive material. A third layer may be disposed next to the second layer and may be made of a conductive material.

The third layer may include a generally circular annular mass and a center anchor post disposed interior of the annular mass. At least one spiral spring may have one end connected to the annular mass and another end connected to the center anchor post. The spiral spring may be wound around the center anchor post. At least one x y plane detection electrode may be separated from the annular mass by a gap. A perimeter area may be separated from the at least one x y plane detection electrode by a gap. The second layer may support the center anchor post the at least one x y plane detection electrode and the perimeter area.

A fourth layer may be disposed next to the third layer and may be another spacer layer made of a conductive material. A fifth layer may be disposed next to the fourth layer. The fifth layer may be a z axis electrode made of a conductive material. The fifth layer may be separated from the annular mass by a second gap.

A second z axis electrode may be disposed on the first layer facing the annular mass and separated from the annular mass by a third gap.

A plurality of conductive vias may extend completely through the first layer. The plurality of vias may include a first via in electrical communication with the anchor post a second via in electrical communication with the z axis electrode a third via in electrical communication with the second z axis electrode and a fourth via in electrical communication with the at least one x y plane detection electrode.

The switch may further include a sixth layer disposed next to the first layer on an opposite side of the first layer from the second layer. The sixth layer may include conductive pads in electrical communication with respective ones of the plurality of vias.

Another aspect of the invention is an apparatus that may include a wafer and a plurality of MEMS contact switches disposed on the wafer. At least one of the plurality of switches has an acceleration threshold that differs from an acceleration threshold of at least another one of the plurality of switches. The third layers of the plurality of switches may have a same z axis thickness. The z axis thickness may be in a range of about 5 microns to about 500 microns.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Micro Electromechanical Systems MEMS are micro scale moving devices that may include electronic functions. Embodiments of a contact acceleration switch in accordance with the present invention may be realized in MEMS devices. Compared to larger devices MEMS devices may enable smaller size lower cost and increased repeatability. Using photolithography for example unique enabling MEMS features on the order of 1 10 microns in size may be created with tolerances on the order of 10 100 nm. For instance a 96 volume reduction has been demonstrated in a 1 1 1 mm package size scaled down from a traditionally constructed 5 mm package size. Lower relative cost and improved repeatability may be realized through wafer level batch fabrication and packaging of MEMS devices. Because MEMS manufacturing techniques may create hundreds to thousands of acceleration switches on a single wafer using batch fabrication the total cost per switch may be significantly lower relative to larger scale acceleration contact switches.

Switch may include a first layer made of a non conductive material. As used herein conductive and non conductive mean electrically conductive and electrically non conductive respectively. A second layer may be disposed next to first layer . Second layer may be a spacer layer made of a conductive material. A third layer may be disposed next to second layer . Third layer may be made of a conductive material.

Third layer may include a generally circular annular mass and a center anchor post . Layer may include at least one spiral spring having one end connected to annular mass and another end connected to center anchor post . Layer may include at least one x y plane detection electrode separated from annular mass by a gap . Layer may include a perimeter area separated from x y plane detection electrode by a gap . As best seen in second layer may support conductive center anchor post at least one conductive x y plane detection electrode and perimeter area .

Switch may include a fourth layer next to third layer . Fourth layer may be a spacer layer made of a conductive material. A fifth layer may be disposed next to fourth layer . Fifth layer may be made of a conductive material. Fifth layer may function as a z axis electrode. Fifth layer may be separated from annular mass by a gap . A second z axis electrode may be disposed on first layer . Electrode may face annular mass and may be separated from annular mass by a gap . Electrode may have a shape similar to the annular shape of mass .

A plurality of conductive vias may extend completely through first layer . Vias may be orthogonal to first layer . Via may connect to anchor post . Via may connect to fifth layer which may function as a z axis electrode. Via may connect to second z axis electrode . Via may connect to at least one x y plane detection electrode .

Annular mass may be suspended by at least one spiral spring . Spiral spring may be connected to center anchor post . An acceleration applied to switch in any direction may cause annular mass to move relative to one or more of x y plane detection electrode positive z axis electrode and negative z axis electrode . Contact of annular mass with one or more of x y plane detection electrode positive z axis electrode and negative z axis electrode may complete an electrical circuit thereby closing switch . Annular mass may bridge one or more of gaps and to contact x y plane electrode positive z axis electrode and negative z axis electrode respectively.

Switch may include a gas in gaps . Gas may be for example air or nitrogen. The fluidic damping provided by gas may favorably reduce resonant response of switch . Gas may provide non trivial high frequency vibration damping especially for devices as small as switch . Switch may also be vacuum packaged at the wafer level. Evacuation of switch may result in higher sensitivity to vibration inputs at natural mechanical frequencies of switch .

The widths of gaps may be the same or each gap may have a different width. In some embodiments the widths of gaps may be less than about 100 microns. In other embodiments the widths of gaps may be less than about 10 microns.

Switch may include a sixth layer disposed next to fifth layer . Sixth layer may include one or more conductive pads . Each conductive pad may be electrically connected to vias respectively. Large conductive pads may be surface mounted with solder to a standard circuit board. Pads may function as a mechanical attachment device for switch . Pads may function as electrical signal paths for the detecting electrodes .

Positive z axis electrode fifth layer may function as a lid for switch . As shown in electrode may be electrically and mechanically connected to first layer by perimeter area of third layer and by spacer layers and . Electrode may provide a gas tight seal for hermetic sealing of switch . The gas seal may provide for variation in pressure when switch includes gas for vibration damping.

Mass may contact electrodes along one or more of the x y and z axes. The omnidirectional spiral spring or springs may function in the x y and z axes using a single mass . Thus mass may detect acceleration in all directions. The spring constants of springs may be the same along all three axes or may be different along each axis. An advantage of spiral springs in a contact switch may be that the x y plane sensitivity or response is the same over the 360 degree azimuth of the annular mass.

Conductive components of switch may be made of an electrically conductive material for example copper or nickel. The conductive material may be plated into a mold and patterned in a UV or X ray photolithographic resist. For very high accelerations the conductive material may be steel. Switch may have a threshold acceleration level from about 5 Gs to about 100 KGs. Higher and lower thresholds may be possible. Switches made in accordance with the invention have been fabricated with thresholds of 50 G 85 KG. Higher G levels may enable a significantly higher limit to G level bandwidth.

A contact electrode may be partitioned into electrically isolated portions. In that way the inertial direction may be determined based on the direction of the input and the particular contact portions that are closed. For example show respective switches in which the x y plane detector has been divided into a plurality of electrodes. In switch the x y plane detector has been divided into four electrodes and . In switch the x y plane detector has been divided into eight electrodes . The number of discrete electrodes in the x y plane may vary from for example one to twenty. As will be apparent to those of skill in the art for each additional discrete electrode an additional via may be included in first layer and an additional discrete conductive pad may be included in sixth layer . Also the structure of second layer which is a conductive spacer layer may be altered to support multiple discrete electrodes

Springs may be wound clockwise or counterclockwise around center anchor post . Each spring may use one or multiple spirals. One end of each spiral spring may be fixed to anchor post . Spiral spring may progress radially outward from anchor post to the inside surface of annular mass . An advantage of a spiral spring may be the ease of maximizing the spring length in a small form factor. For example the spiral springs of switch in each have a length of about one complete spiral. In the switch of the spiral springs each have a length of about one half of a complete spiral.

One or more spiral springs may be used. shows a switch with four spiral springs and . shows a switch with five spiral springs . The number of spiral springs may vary for example from one to about ten. Total spring stiffness may be increased by adding more spiral springs. Metal springs may allow for an extremely high strain rate input of shock pulse.

In some embodiments the inventive switch may be used to detect radial spin. To detect spin of a body the central longitudinal axis of the contact switch may not be collinear with the central longitudinal axis of the spinning body. shows a switch with an annular mass and x y plane electrodes . Electrodes may be separated from each other by gaps . Mass may include one or more radially extending protrusions such as stop tabs disposed in gaps respectively. Stop tabs may prevent damage to spiral springs during angular acceleration. Stop tabs may be conductive or non conductive. The arrow in represents the angular acceleration.

An advantage of MEMS fabrication may be the ability to batch fabricate multiple devices on a single wafer. shows switches and fabricated on a single wafer . Switches may each have a layer akin to third layer of switch . Each respective third layer of switches and may have the same z axis thickness. This z axis thickness may be for example from about 5 to about 500 microns. Each switch may have a different acceleration threshold.

Differing acceleration thresholds for switches and may be provided by varying for example 1 the length of the spiral spring or springs in each switch 2 the number of spirals in each spring or springs 3 the gaps between the masses and the electrodes 4 the dimensions of the masses and 5 the cross sectional width of the spring or springs in the x y plane. The differing acceleration thresholds may be achieved by using a common z axis thickness and only changing features in the two dimensional x y plane. Thus one may fabricate a plurality of switches on one wafer with a common thickness but with varying G level thresholds. Such a device may be used to detect multiple G levels. shows three switches however the number of switches on wafer may be in the hundreds or greater.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

