---

title: 1-(1-(2-ethoxyethyl)-3-ethyl-7-(4-methylpyridin-2-ylamino)-1-pyrazolo[4,3-]pyrimidin-5-yl) piperidine-4-carboxylic acid and salts thereof
abstract: The present invention comprises 1-(1-(2-ethoxyethyl)-3-ethyl-7-(4-methylpyridin-2-ylamino)-1H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)piperidine-4-carboxylic acid and its salts. The invention further comprises pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, and synthetic methods relating to 1-(1-(2-ethoxyethyl)-3-ethyl-7-(4-methylpyridin-2-ylamino)-1H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)piperidine-4-carboxylic acid and its salts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08518956&OS=08518956&RS=08518956
owner: Pharmacia & Upjohn Company LLC
number: 08518956
owner_city: Kalamazoo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101117
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 558 306 filed Nov. 09 2006 now abandoned which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 735 320 filed Nov. 10 2005 each of which are herein incorporated by reference for any reason.

The present invention relates generally to 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid and its salts. The present invention further relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising this compound or its salts methods of treatment employing this compound or its salts and methods of preparing this compound or its salts. In general the compound and its salts inhibit the cyclic guanylate monophosphate specific phosphodiesterase type 5 PDE5 enzyme.

Hypertension is a condition associated with among other physiological problems an increased risk of stroke myocardial infarction atrial fibrillation heart failure peripheral vascular disease and renal impairment. Despite the numerous drugs available in various pharmacological categories to treat hypertension and related physiological problems not all patients respond to such drugs as effectively or as safely as desired. Additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of hypertension and or related conditions are still needed.

One class of therapeutic agents reported in the literature as useful for the treatment of hypertension are inhibitors of the PDE5 enzyme PDE5 inhibitors . In general vascular endothelial cells secrete nitric oxide which acts on vascular smooth muscle cells and leads to the activation of guanylate cyclase and the accumulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . The accumulation of cGMP causes the muscles to relax and the blood vessels to dilate leading to a reduction in blood pressure. The cGMP is inactivated by hydrolysis to guanosine 5 monophosphate GMP by cGMP specific phosphodiesterases. One cGMP phosphodiesterase involved in the inactivation of cGMP is the PDE5 enzyme. Inhibitors of the PDE5 enzyme decrease the rate of cGMP hydrolysis. This reduction in cGMP hydrolysis potentiates the actions of nitric oxide leading to a lowering of blood pressure.

Compounds that are PDE5 inhibitors have been reported in the literature. For example WO2005049616 reports one class of pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidinyl compounds. WO2005049617 reports another class of pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidinyl compounds. WO2004096810 reports another class of pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidinyl compounds. EP 1348707 reports another class of pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidinyl compounds.

The identification of additional compounds that are PDE5 inhibitors is desirable. Such compounds can be used to treat subjects suffering from or susceptible to hypertension and or related physiological problems and further expand the range of treatment options available for such subjects.

In one embodiment the invention comprises 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

In another embodiment the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another embodiment the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof one or more additional therapeutic agents and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another embodiment the invention comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject by administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Conditions that can be treated in accordance with the present invention include cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction pain and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the invention comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject by administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof one or more additional therapeutic agents and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Conditions that can be treated in accordance with the present invention include cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction pain and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the invention comprises use of 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition in a subject. Such conditions include cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction pain and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the invention comprises methods for making 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

This detailed description of embodiments is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants inventions its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the inventions in their numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. These inventions therefore are not limited to the embodiments described in this specification and may be variously modified.

The abbreviation HRMS refers to High Resolution Mass Spectroscopy electrospray ionisation positive scan .

The term cGMP mediated condition refers to any condition mediated by cGMP whether through direct regulation by cGMP or through indirect regulation by cGMP as a component of a signalling pathway.

The term hypertensive subject refers to a subject having hypertension suffering from the effects of hypertension or susceptible to a hypertensive condition if not treated to prevent or control such hypertension.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a carrier that is compatible with the other ingredients of the composition and is not deleterious to the subject. Such carriers may be a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting a chemical agent. The preferred composition depends on the method of administration.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system or animal that is being sought by a researcher or clinician.

The term treatment and corresponding terms treat and treating includes palliative restorative and preventative treatment of a subject. The term palliative treatment refers to treatment that eases or reduces the effect or intensity of a condition in a subject without curing the condition. The term preventative treatment and the corresponding term prophylactic treatment refers to either preventing the onset of a preclinically evident condition altogether or preventing the onset of a preclinical evident stage of a condition in a subject. The term restorative treatment refers to treatment that halts the progression of reduces the pathologic manifestations of or entirely eliminates a condition in a subject.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to the free acid form of the Carboxypiperidine Compound.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the Carboxypiperidine Compound.

WO2004096810 reports a genus of compounds that generically embraces the Carboxypiperidine Compound. Although WO2004096810 provides examples of specific compounds within the genus it does not disclose the Carboxypiperidine Compound itself. The Carboxypiperidine Compound however possesses at least one or more different properties relative to the specific compounds described in WO2004096810. These properties include for example efficacy e.g greater in vitro ex vivo and or in vivo potency safety e.g. greater selectivity and or lower toxicity pharmacokinetic properties e.g. Clonger half life and or lower clearance and manufacturing properties e.g. ease of synthesis and or availability of starting materials .

As noted above the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be in either the free acid form or in a salt form. Different salt forms of the Carboxypiperidine Compound may have different physical properties relative to each other. Accordingly selection of the specific salt form of the Carboxypiperidine Compound potentially can impact for example compound stability such as over a range of temperatures and or humidities compound solubility and other compound physical properties that can affect a drug product. In addition salts of the Carboxypiperidine Compound generally will have greater aqueous solubility than the corresponding free acid form.

Where the salt of the Carboxypiperidine Compound is administered to a human or animal subject as opposed to for example use for in vitro testing the salt preferably is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt that is generally considered suitable for human consumption particularly a non toxic salt . Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include base addition salts and acid addition salts of the corresponding free acid. These salts typically may be prepared by conventional means from the free acid of the Carboxypiperidine Compound.

Illustrative base addition salts of the Carboxypiperidine Compound include metallic salts and organic salts. Metallic salts include alkali metal group Ia salts such as lithium sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts such as calcium and magnesium salts and other physiological acceptable metal salts such as aluminum and zinc salts . Organic salts include salts made from secondary tertiary and quaternary amines such as tromethamine diethylamine triethylamine ethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine ethylenediamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine procaine chloroprocaine and choline and salts made from cationic amino acids such as arginine lysine and histidine .

Examples of suitable acid addition salts include hydrochloride hydrobromide hydrofluoride hydroiodide borate fluoroborate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihydrogen phosphate glycerophosphate hexafluorophosphate metaphosphate nitrate bicarbonate carbonate bisulphate sulfate dodecylsulfate sulfonate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate toluenesulfonate trifluoromethanesulfonate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate cyclohexylaminosulfonate 2 naphthalesulfonate camphorsulfonate acetate adipate anthranilate aspartate ascorbate algenate trifluoroacetate phenylacetate benzoate p hydroxybenzoate besylate butyrate hydroxybutyrate camphorate camsyate citrate embonate edisylate esylate formate fumarate gluconate digluconate glycolate glucamate glucuronate gluceptate heptanoate glycoheptanoate hexanoate hibenzate isethionate isethionate lactate lactobionate malate maleate mandelate mesylate nicotinate orotate oxalate palm itate pamoate panthothenate pectinate picrate pivalate propionate cyclopentanepropionate 3 phenylpropionate pyruvate saccharate salicylate stearate succinate sulfanilate tartrate galactarate tosylate uronate galacturonate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

For a review on suitable salts see Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use by Stahl and Wermuth Wiley VCH Weinheim Germany 2002 .

As used in this application the term Carboxypiperidine Compound as well as the corresponding structure is intended to embrace all tautomeric isomers of 1 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 7 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamino 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 5 yl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid. Representative tautomeric isomers of the Carboxypiperidine Compound are shown below 

The present invention further comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject having or susceptible to having such a condition by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In one embodiment the treatment is preventative treatment. In another embodiment the treatment is palliative treatment. In still another embodiment the treatment is restorative treatment.

In another embodiment the condition is a cGMP mediated condition. A condition in which for instance insufficient cGMP is a major component and whose production or action is modulated in response to the PDE5 enzyme would therefore be considered a disorder mediated by cGMP.

In another embodiment the condition is selected from the group consisting of cardiovascular conditions metabolic conditions central nervous system conditions pulmonary conditions sexual dysfunction pain and renal dysfunction.

In another embodiment the condition is a cardiovascular condition selected from the group consisting of hypertension including essential hypertension pulmonary hypertension pulmonary arterial hypertension secondary hypertension isolated systolic hypertension hypertension associated with diabetes hypertension associated with atherosclerosis and renovascular hypertension complications associated with hypertension including vascular organ damage congestive heart failure angina stroke glaucoma and impaired renal function valvular insufficiency stable unstable and variant Prinzmetal angina peripheral vascular disease myocardial infarct stroke including stroke recovery thromboembolic disease restenosis arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis angiostenosis after bypass angioplasty including percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty hyperlipidemia hypoxic vasoconstriction vasculitis including Kawasaki s syndrome heart failure including congestive heart failure decompensated heart failure systolic heart failure diastolic heart failure left ventricular heart failure right ventricular heart failure and left ventricular hypertrophy Raynaud s phenomenon preeclampsia pregnancy induced high blood pressure cardiomyopathy and arterial occlusive disorders.

In another embodiment the condition is a condition associated with endothelial dysfunction including conditions selected from the group consisting of atherosclerotic lesions myocardial ischaemia peripheral ischaemia valvular insufficiency pulmonary arterial hypertension angina clots vascular complications after vascular bypass vascular dilation vascular repermeabilisation and heart transplantation .

In another embodiment the condition is a metabolic condition selected from the group consisting of Syndrome X diabetes including type I and type II diabetes insulin resistance syndromes of insulin resistance including insulin receptor disorders Rabson Mendenhall syndrome leprechaunism Kobberling Dunnigan syndrome Seip syndrome Lawrence syndrome Cushing syndrome acromegaly pheochomocytoma glucagonoma primary aldosteronism somatostatinoma Lipoatrophic diabetes cell toxin induced diabetes Grave s disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis and idiopathic Addison s disease impaired glucose tolerance diabetic complications including diabetic gangrene diabetic arthropathy diabetic nephropathy diabetic glomerulosclerosis diabetic deramatopathy diabetic neuropathy peripheral diabetic neuropathy diabetic cataract and diabetic retinopathy hyperglycemia and obesity.

In another embodiment the condition is a central nervous system condition selected from the group consisting of vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma cerebral infarct cerebrovascular accident dementia concentration disorders Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease amyolateral sclerosis Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis Creutzfeld Jacob disease anxiety depression sleep disorders and migraine.

In another embodiment the condition is a pulmonary condition selected from the group consisting of asthma acute respiratory distress cystic fibrosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease bronchitis and chronic reversible pulmonary obstruction.

In another embodiment the condition is pain. In another embodiment the condition is acute pain. Examples of acute pain include acute pain associated with injury or surgery. In another embodiment the condition is chronic pain. Examples of chronic pain include neuropathic pain including postherpetic neuralgia and pain associated with peripheral cancer or diabetic neuropathy carpal tunnel syndrome back pain including pain associated with herniated or ruptured intervertabral discs or abnormalities of the lumber facet joints sacroiliac joints paraspinal muscles or the posterior longitudinal ligament headache cancer pain including tumour related pain such as bone pain headache facial pain or visceral pain or pain associated with cancer therapy including postchemotherapy syndrome chronic postsurgical pain syndrome post radiation syndrome pain associated with immunotherapy or pain associated with hormonal therapy arthritic pain including osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis pain chronic post surgical pain post herpetic neuralgia trigeminal neuralgia HIV neuropathy phantom limb pain central post stroke pain and pain associated with chronic alcoholism hypothyroidism uremia multiple sclerosis spinal cord injury Parkinson s disease epilepsy and vitamin deficiency. In another embodiment the condition is nociceptive pain including pain from central nervous system trauma strains sprains burns myocardial infarction and acute pancreatitis post operative pain pain following any type of surgical procedure posttraumatic pain renal colic cancer pain and back pain . In another embodiment the condition is pain associated with inflammation including arthritic pain such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid disease pain ankylosing spondylitis visceral pain including inflammatory bowel disease functional bowel disorder gastro esophageal reflux dyspepsia irritable bowel syndrome functional abdominal pain syndrome Crohn s disease ileitis ulcerative colitis dysmenorrheal cystitis pancreatitis and pelvic pain . In another embodiment the condition is pain resulting from musculo skeletal disorders including myalgia fibromyalgia spondylitis sero negative non rheumatoid arthropathies non articular rheumatism dystrophinopathy glycogenolysis polymyositis and pyomyositis . In another embodiment the condition is selected from the group consisting of heart and vascular pain including pain caused by angina myocardical infarction mitral stenosis pericarditis Raynaud s phenomenon scleredoma and skeletal muscle ischemia .

In another embodiment the condition is selected from the group consisting of head pain including migraine such as migraine with aura and migraine without aura cluster headache tension type headache mixed headache and headache associated with vascular disorders orofacial pain including dental pain otic pain burning mouth syndrome and temporomandibular myofascial pain .

In another embodiment the condition is sexual dysfunction including sexual dysfunction selected from the group consisting of impotence organic or psychic male erectile dysfunction clitoral dysfunction sexual dysfunction after spinal cord injury female sexual arousal disorder female sexual orgasmic dysfunction female sexual pain disorder and female hypoactive sexual desire disorder .

In another embodiment the condition is renal dysfunction including renal dysfunction selected from the group consisting of acute renal failure chronic renal failure nephropathy such as diabetic nephropathy tubulointerstitial disorders glomerulopathy and nephritis. In another embodiment the condition is a cancer condition selected from the group consisting of cancerous cachexia tumor metastasis and neoplasia.

In another embodiment the condition is a gastrointestinal condition selected from the group consisting of nutcracker oesophagus anal fissure disorders of gut motility irritable bowel syndrome and haemorrhoids. In another embodiment the condition is a urologic condition selected from the group consisting of bladder outlet obstruction incontinence and benign prostatic hyperplasia.

In another embodiment the condition is a skin condition selected from psoriasis urticaria and skin necrosis.

In another embodiment the condition is an ophthalmic condition selected from retinal disease macular degeneration and glaucoma.

In another embodiment the condition is a gynecologic condition selected from the group consisting of dysmenorrhoea primary and secondary infertility and premature labor. In another embodiment the condition is secondary dysmenorrhoea.

In another embodiment the present invention further comprises methods for inducing weight loss or maintenance of weight loss in a subject by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the Carboxypiperidine Compound.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound including the corresponding methods of treatment and pharmaceutical compositions are suitable for use with for example mammalian subjects such as humans other primates e.g. monkeys chimpanzees companion animals e.g. dogs cats horses farm animals e.g. goats sheep pigs cattle laboratory animals e.g. mice rats and wild and zoo animals e.g. wolves bears deer . In one embodiment the subject is a mammalian subject. In another embodiment the subject is a human.

Without being held to a particular theory it is hypothesized that the Carboxypiperidine Compound is an inhibitor of the PDE5 enzyme. It is further hypothesized that the Carboxypiperidine Compound inhibits the action of the PDE5 enzyme leading to an increase in intracellular cGMP levels. This increase in intracellular cGMP levels reduces intracellular calcium signaling which in turn results in vascular smooth muscle relaxation and a reduction in blood pressure.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound is generally administered in a therapeutically effective amount. In one embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound is administered in a PDE5 enzyme inhibiting amount. The Carboxypiperidine Compound can be administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the Carboxypiperidine Compound required to prevent or arrest the progress of or to treat the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary based on the specific situation. Dosage levels from about 0.001 mg to about 100 mg of Carboxypiperidine Compound per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of the Carboxypiperidine Compound administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.001 mg kg to about 20 mg kg i.e. mg compound kg body weight . In another embodiment the total daily dose of the Carboxypiperidine Compound is from about 0.005 mg kg to about 10 mg kg. In another embodiment the total daily dose is from about 0.005 mg kg to about 5 mg kg. In another embodiment the total daily dose is from about 0.01 mg kg to about 1 mg kg. These dosages are based on an average human subject having a weight of about 65 kg to about 75 kg. A physician will readily be able to determine doses for subjects whose weight falls outside of this range such as infants. The administration of the Carboxypiperidine Compound can be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times to achieve the desired daily dose.

For convenience the Carboxypiperidine Compound can be administered in a unit dosage form. If desired multiple doses per day of the unit dosage form can be used to increase the total daily dose. The unit dosage form for example may be a tablet or capsule containing about 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 1 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 125 150 175 200 250 or 500 mg of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In one embodiment the unit dosage form contains from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In another embodiment the unit dosage form contains from about 0.05 mg to about 250 mg of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In another embodiment the unit dosage form contains from about 0.1 mg to about 100 mg of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In another embodiment the unit dosage form contains from about 0.5 mg to about 50 mg of the Carboxypiperidine Compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises the Carboxypiperidine Compound for use as a medicament such as a unit dosage tablet or unit dosage capsule .

The present invention further comprises the use of the Carboxypiperidine Compound for the manufacture of a medicament such as a unit dosage tablet or unit dosage capsule to treat one or more of the conditions previously identified in the above sections discussing methods of treatment. In one embodiment the condition is hypertension.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the Carboxypiperidine Compound can be administered as the free acid compound per se. In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound can be administered as one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the free acid compound per se. In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound can be administered as a mixture of the free acid compound per se and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the free acid compound per se.

The present invention further comprises pharmaceutical compositions comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises the Carboxypiperidine Compound in the free acid form. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises a mixture of the Carboxypiperidine Compound in the free acid form and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition comprises the Carboxypiperidine Compound and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the Carboxypiperidine Compound as a unit dosage form for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the Carboxypiperidine Compound. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The Carboxypiperidine Compound and corresponding compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dosage form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the Carboxypiperidine Compound is ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneally intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dosage form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in suitable carrier. For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dosage form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound also can be administered in combination with other therapeutic agents to treat the various conditions previously discussed above. The Carboxypiperidine Compound and the other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention comprises methods for treating a condition in a subject having or susceptible to having such a condition by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the Carboxypiperidine Compound and one or more additional therapeutic agents. In another embodiment the present invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound one or more additional therapeutic agents and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more diuretics. Examples of suitable diuretics include hydroclorothiazide such as MICROZIDE and ORETIC hydroflumethiazide such as SALURON bemetanide such as BUMEX torsemide such as DEMADEX metolazone such as ZAROXOLYN chlorothiazide such as DIURIL ESIDRIX and HYDRODIURIL triamterene such as DYRENIUM ethacrynic acid such as EDECRIN chlorthalidone such as HYGROTON furosemide such as LASIX indapamide such as LOZOL and amiloride such as MIDAMOR and MODURETIC .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Examples of suitable angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors include quinapril such as ACCUPRIL perindopril such as ACEON captopril such as CAPOTEN enalapril such as VASOTEC ENALAPRILAT ramipril such as ALTACE cilazapril delapril fosenopril such as MONOPRIL zofenopril indolapril benazepril such as LOTENSIN lisinopril such as PRINIVIL and ZESTRIL spirapril trandolapril such as MAVIK perindep pentopril moexipril such as UNIVASC fasidotril S allymercaptocaptopril and pivopril.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more angiotensin II receptor blockers. Examples of suitable angiotensin II receptor blockers include candesartan such as ATACAND eprosartan such as TEVETEN irbesartan such as AVEPRO losartan such as COZAAR olmesartan olmesartan medoxomil such as BENICAR tasosartan telmisartan such as MICARDIS valsartan such as DIOVAN zolasartan FI 6828K RNH 6270 UR 7198 Way 126227 KRH 594 TAK 536 BRA 657 and TA 606.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more calcium channel blockers. Examples of suitable calcium channel blockers include nifedipine such as ADALAT ADALAT CC and PROCARDIA verapamil such as CALAN COVERA HS ISOPTIN SR and VERELAN diltiazem such as CARDIZEM CARDIZEM CD CARDIZEM LA CARDIZEM SR DILACOR TIAMATE and TIAZAC isradipine such as DYNACIRC and DYNACIRC CR amiodipine such as NORVASC felodipine such as PLENDIL nisoldipine such as SULAR bepridil such as VASCOR vatanidipine clevidipine lercanidipine dilitiazem and NNC 55 0396.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more beta blockers. Examples of suitable beta blockers include timolol such as BLOCARDEN carteolol such as CARTROL carvedilol such as COREG nadolol such as CORGARD propranolol such as INNOPRAN XL betaxolol such as KERLONE penbutolol such as LEVATOL metoprolol such as LOPRESSOR and TOPROL XL atenolol such as TENORMIN pindolol such as VISKEN and bisoprolol.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more alpha blockers. Examples of suitable alpha blockers include prazosin doxazosin such as CARDURA phenoxybenzamine such as DIBENZYLINE terazosin such as HYTRIN CDRI 93 478 and CR 2991.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more alpha beta blockers. An example of a suitable alpha beta blocker is labetalol such as NORMODYNE or TRANDATE .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more aldosterone receptor antagonists. Examples of suitable aldosterone receptor antagonists include eplerenone such as INSPRA and spironolactone such as ALDACTONE .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more renin inhibitors. Examples of suitable renin inhibitors include aliskiren SPP 100 SPP 500 600 and YS 004 39.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more central antiadrenergics. Examples of suitable central antiadrenergics includes methyldopa such as ALDOMET clonidine such as CATAPRES or CATAPRES TTS guanfacine such as TENEX and guanabenz such as WYTENSIN .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more glycosides inotropic agents. An example of a suitable glycoside inotropic agent is digoxin such as LANOXIN .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more human B type natriuretic peptides. An example of a suitable human B type natriuretic peptide is nesiritide such as NATRECOR .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more organic nitrates or nitric oxide donors. Nitric oxide donor refers to a compound that donates releases and or directly or indirectly transfers a nitrogen monoxide species and or stimulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide or endothelium derived relaxing factor EDRF in vivo and or elevate endogenous levels of nitric oxide or EDRF in vivo. It also includes compounds that are substrates for nitric oxide synthase. Examples of suitable nitric oxide donors include S nitrosothiols nitrites nitrates N oxo N nitrosamines. SPM 3672 SPM 5185 SPM 5186 and analogues thereof sodium nitroprusside nitroglycerin isosorbide dinitrate isosorbide mononitrate molsidomine SIN 1 and substrates of the various isozymes of nitric oxide synthase.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more bradykinin agonists.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more soluble guanylate cyclase activators. An example of a suitable soluble guanylate cyclase activator is BAY 41 8543.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more neutral endopeptidase inhibitors. Examples of suitable neutral endopeptidase inhibitors include omapatrilat fasidotril mixanpril sampatrilat Z13752A 

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more endothelian antagonists. Examples of suitable endothelin antagonists include ambrisentan darusentan J 104132 SPP 301 TBC 3711 YM 62899 YM 91746 and BMS 193884.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors. Examples of suitable 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors include fluvastatin such as LESCOL atorvastatin such as LIPITOR lovastatin such as ALTOCOR or MEVACOR pravastatin such as PRAVACHOL rosuvastatin such as CRESTOR and simvastatin such as ZOCOR .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with niacin or one or more nicotinic acid derivatives. Examples of suitable niacin or nicotinic acid derivatives include NIACOR NIASPAN NICOLAR and SLO NIACIN .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more fibric acid derivatives. Examples of suitable fibric acid derivatives include clofibrate such as ATROMID S gemfibrozil such as LOPID and fenofibrate such as TRICOR .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more bile acid sequestants. Examples of suitable bile acid sequestants include colestipol such as COLESTID cholestyramine such as LOCHOLEST PREVALITE QUESTRAN and QUESTRAN LIGHT colesevelam such as WELCHOL .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more cholesterol absorption inhibitors. An example of a suitable cholesterol absorption inhibitor is ezetimibe such as ZETIA .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more cholesteryl ester transport protein inhibitors. An example of a suitable cholesteryl ester transport protein inhibitor is torcetrapib.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more apical sodium dependent bile acid cotransporter inhibitors. Examples of suitable apical sodium dependent bile acid cotransporter inhibitors include SD 5613 AZD7806 and 264W94.

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more alpha glucosidase inhibitors. Examples of suitable alpha glucosidase inhibitors include miglitol such as GLYSET and acarbose such as PRECOSE .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more biguanides. Examples of suitable biguanides include rosiglitazone such as AVANDAMET and metformin such as GLUCOPHAGE and GLUCOPHAGE XR .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more insulins. Examples of suitable insulins include HUMALOG HUMALOG 50 50 HUMALOG 75 25 HUMULIN 50 50 HUMALIN 75 25 HUMALIN L HUMALIN N HUMALIN R HUMALIN R U500 HUMALIN U ILETIN II LENTE ILETIN II NPH ILETIN II REGULAR LANTUS NOVOLIN 70 30 NOVILIN N NOVILIN R NOVOLOG VELOSULIN BR and EXUBERA .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more meglitnides. Examples of suitable meglitnides include repaglinide such as PRANDIN and nateglinide such as STARLIX .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more sulfonylureas. Examples of suitable sulfonylureas include glimepiride such as AMARYL glyburide such as DIABETA GLYNASE PRESTAB or MICRONASE and glipizide such as GLUCOTROL and GLUCOTROL XL .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more thiazolidinediones. Examples of suitable thiazolidinediones include pioglitazone such as ACTOS and rosiglitazone such as AVANDIA .

In another embodiment the Carboxypiperidine Compound may be co administered with one or more alpha 2 delta ligands. Examples of suitable alpha 2 delta ligands include gabapentin pregabalin such as LYRICA 1R 5R 6S 6 aminomethyl bicyclo 3.2.0 hept 6 yl acetic acid 3 1 aminomethyl cyclohexylmethyl 4H 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 one C 1 1H tetrazol 5 ylmethyl cycloheptyl methylamine 3S 4S 1 aminomethyl 3 4 dimethyl cyclopentyl acetic acid 1 3 5 3 amino methyl bicyclo 3.2.0 hept 3 yl acetic acid 3S 5R 3 aminomethyl 5 methyl octanoic acid 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl heptanoic acid 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl nonanoic acid and 3S 5R 3 amino 5 methyl octanoic acid 2S 4S 4 3 Chlorophenoxy praline and 2S 4S 4 3 Fluorobenzyl praline.

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a container for the first dosage form. In another embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a second dosage form comprising a second therapeutic agent.

In another embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a second dosage form comprising an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.

In another embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a second dosage form comprising an angiotensin II receptor antagonist.

In another embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a second dosage form comprising an aldosterone receptor antagonist.

In another embodiment the kit comprises a first dosage form comprising the Carboxypiperidine Compound and a second dosage form comprising a nitric oxide donor.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound may be prepared using the methods illustrated in the synthetic schemes and the experimental procedures described below. The general synthetic schemes are presented for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting. The starting materials used to prepare the Carboxypiperidine Compound are commercially available or may prepared by routine methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the COMPENDIUM OF ORGANIC SYNTHETIC METHODS Vol. I VI published by Wiley Interscience .

A 1 L flask was charged with 3 ethyl 4 nitropyrazole 5 carboxamide prepared as described in EP 1176142 at page 18 15.0 g 81 mmol triphenylphosphine 25.6 g 97.8 mmol and tetrahydrofuran 120 mL . The resulting mixture was cooled by placing the flask in a 0 C. bath and 2 ethoxyethanol 9.5 ml 98 mmol was added to the flask. A solution of di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 22.5 g 97.8 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 90 mL was then added to the flask over a period of 2.5 hours. The mixture was stirred with cooling for an additional hour and then warmed to room temperature and stirred for one additional hour. The mixture was again cooled to 0 C. treated with 6M hydrochloric acid 40 ml and heated to 40 C. for one hour. The mixture was partially concentrated and extracted between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous layer was back extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with water washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and then concentrated. The resulting viscous oil was treated with 2 propanol and this mixture was then concentrated. The resulting material was treated with 2 propanol and heated. Upon cooling the resulting crystals were filtered rinsed with cold 2 propanol and dried to afford 16.5 g of the title compound.

1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 4 nitro 1H pyrazole 5 carboxamide from step 1 15.0 g 58 mmol 5 Platinum on carbon 0.75 g and isopropyl acetate 150 mL were combined and the mixture was stirred under 80 psi of hydrogen for about 50 hours. The mixture was then filtered through celite the celite was rinsed with acetonitrile and the filtrate was concentrated. The material eventually crystallized to give 13.7 g as a hydrate of the title compound.

A mixture of carbonyldiimidazole 12.3 g 76.1 mmol in acetonitrile 123 mL was warmed to 50 C. The 4 amino 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazole 5 carboxamide prepared in step 3 13.2 g 58 mmol was added to the mixture over a period of one hour and the temperature of the mixture was increased to 75 C. during the addition. The mixture was then cooled and stirred overnight. The mixture was cooled in an ice bath and filtered. The filter cake was rinsed with water and dried to provide 12.8 g of the title compound.

A mixture of 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione from step 3 25.2 g 100 mmol was treated with PhPOCl 195 g 1000 mmol and heated under N2 with stirring at 135 C. for 20 h. The mixture was cooled and then heated at 140 C. for an additional 20 h. The mixture was cooled and slowly added to an ice 600 g water 200 mL mixture. This was stirred for 3 h and the resulting solid was collected by filtration and rinsed with water 2 100 mL . The solid was suspended in ethyl acetate 300 mL . Water 200 mL was added and the pH adjusted to 1 2. Then 10 NaHCO 125 mL was added resulting in pH 7 and the layers were separated. The organic layer was successively washed with water 400 mL and saturated sodium chloride solution 150 mL . The organic solution was then dried and concentrated to provide 23 g of the title compound.

A mixture of 2 amino 4 picoline 4.32 g 40 mmol and 5 7 dichloro 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine from step 4 5.78 g 20 mmol was treated with THF 25 mL and cooled to 0 C. The mixture was stirred and treated with 1 M LiN TMS in THF 40 mL 40 mmol at a rate such that the temperature was kept below 5 C. The mixture was stirred for 30 min and was then treated with 10 citric acid solution until pH 6 7 was achieved. The mixture was partially concentrated under reduced pressure. The mixture was then stirred at 5 C. for 1 h. The resulting solid was collected by suction filtration and washed with water 40 mL . The solid was dried in a vacuum oven at a temperature less than 60 C. to afford 7.0 g of the title compound.

A mixture of N 5 chloro 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 7 yl 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamine from step 5 5.42 g 166 mmol isonipecotic acid 85.9 g 665 mmol cesium carbonate 162 g 498 mmol and DMSO 55 mL was heated with stirring at 125 C. After 20 h the mixture was cooled to 20 C. and water 165 mL was added. The mixture was stirred for 15 min and was then treated with ethyl acetate 55 mL . The layers were separated and the aqueous was treated with another portion of ethyl acetate 55 mL . The layers were separated again and the aqueous layer was taken to pH 5 using 6 M HCl. After stirring for 1 hour the resulting solid was filtered washed with water 20 mL and dried in vacuuo to give 5.5 g of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.10 t 3 H 1.30 t 3 H 1.49 1.60 m 2 H 1.84 1.95 m 2 H 2.32 2.36 m 3 H 2.52 2.57 m 1 H 2.78 q 2 H 2.99 3.08 m 2 H 3.52 q 2 H 3.78 t 2 H 4.45 4.53 m 2 H 4.56 4.64 m 2 H 6.91 d 1 H 8.05 s 1 H 8.18 d 1 H 9.63 s 1 H 12.18 s 1 H . LCMS m z 454.

Alternatively a mixture of N 5 chloro 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidin 7 yl 4 methylpyridin 2 ylamine from step 5 can be combined with isonipecotic acid between 1 to 10 equivalents and a base and heated between 100 125 C. in a solvent until the reaction is complete. Suitable bases include cesium carbonate sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate. Suitable solvents include DMSO and N N dimethylformamide. Upon cooling water can be added and the basic solution extracted between 1 to 3 times with an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate. The remaining basic layer is acidified to pH 5 with HCl. The mixture is stirred for approximately 1 hour. The solid is filtered off washed with water and dried in vaccuo to provide the title compound.

A mixture of 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 4 nitro 1H pyrazole 5 carboxamide from step 1 5.70 g 22 mmol and palladium hydroxide 1.0 g in ethanol 110 mL was treated with ammonium formate 7.01 g 111 mmol in four unequal portions at about 10 minute intervals. The resulting mixture was heated under reflux for two hours and then cooled. The mixture was filtered through celite and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexane as the eluent to provide 2.45 g of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.17 t 3 H 1.21 1.32 m 3 H 2.60 q 2 H 3.53 q 2 H 3.79 3.95 m 2 H 4.38 4.52 m 2 H . MS ESI m z 227.

A mixture of 4 amino 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazole 5 carboxamide from step 2 2.44 g 10.8 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 40 mL was treated with carbonyldiimidazole 1.92 g 11.9 mmol and heated at 80 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated in vacuuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexane as the eluent to provide 1.04 g of the title compound. MS ESI m z 253.

A mixture of the 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione prepared in step 3 7.2 g and phosphorus oxychloride 200 mL with one drop of N N dimethylformamide was heated at reflux overnight. The mixture was cooled and the phosphorus oxychloride was evaporated under reduced pressure. Ice was added to the resulting residue and then the mixture was extracted with chloroform. The organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to provide 2.09 g of 5 7 dichloro 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine as an oil which solidified upon standing. LCMS m z 289.

The 5 7 dichloro 1 2 ethoxyethyl 3 ethyl 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine prepared in step 4 1 mmol 2 amino 4 picoline 2 mmol N N diisopropylethylamine 3 mmol and N methylpyrrolidone 1 mL were added to each of two reaction vessels. Each vessel was irradiated in a CEM Discover microwave for 15 minutes at 150 C. Isonipecotic acid 3 mmol was added to each reaction vessel and the resulting mixture irradiated for 15 minutes at 180 C. The contents of the two reaction vessels were combined. Water and ethyl acetate was added to the mixture and the mixture was shaken. Hydrochloric acid 1M was added to the mixture and the mixture was shaken again. The layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with water hydrochloric acid 1M was added and the layers were separated. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated. The pH of the aqueous layer was raised to about six by adding saturated sodium carbonate and the aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered added to the above organic residue and evaporated. The solution was purified by RP HPLC on a Varian Dynamax C 18 column 250 41.4 mm with a gradient of 10 95 acetonitrile water hydrochloric acid over 15 minutes in two batches. Fractions were combined and evaporated to afford 0.26 g of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.10 t 3 H 1.30 t 3 H 1.49 1.60 m 2 H 1.84 1.95 m 2 H 2.32 2.36 m 3 H 2.52 2.57 m 1 H 2.78 q 2 H 2.99 3.08 m 2 H 3.52 q 2 H 3.78 t 2 H 4.45 4.53 m 2 H 4.56 4.64 m 2 H 6.91 d 1 H 8.05 s 1 H 8.18 d 1 H 9.63 s 1 H 12.18 s 1 H . LCMS m z 454.

An in vitro assay can be used to evaluate the inhibition of PDE5 enzyme activity by a test compound. As described more specifically below this assay measures the PDE5 ICvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound required to inhibit by 50 the PDE5 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of cGMP to GMP relative to the activity of uninhibited controls .

The PDE5 enzyme for use in the assay can be obtained from human platelets by appropriate modification of the method of Thompson W J et al. Biochemistry 18 23 5228 5237 1979 as described by Ballard S A et al. J. Urology 159 6 2164 2171 1998. The PDE5 enzyme isolated from human platelets can be used to catalyze the hydrolysis of H cGMP Amersham Biosciences to 5 nucleotide H GMP. The H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads Amersham Biosciences and is detected by scintillation counting. More specifically the effect of the test compound at different concentrations can be evaluated in the assay by contacting the compound with a fixed amount of PDE5 enzyme in the presence of substrate cGMP or cAMP in a 3 1 ratio unlabelled to H labeled . Scintillation counting can be used as described above to determine relative PDE5 enzyme activity. The inhibition of PDE5 enzyme activity is then calculated relative to total PDE5 enzyme activity of uninhibited controls.

Stocks of standard and test compounds are prepared at 5 mM in 100 DMSO. The compound is serially diluted in a dilution plate using a 10 point log dilution format. 2 l of the compound dilution is added in duplicate to the wells of the assay plate. 2 l of 100 DMSO are added to designated control wells. 25 l of Buffer A are added to all wells. 25 l of Buffer B are added to the negative control wells. 25 l of enzyme are added to the remaining wells. 50 l of substrate are added to each well. Plates are sealed and incubated for 60 minutes on a plate shaker at 30 C. 50 plof SPA beads are added to stop the reaction. The plates are again sealed and shaken for 15 minutes to allow the beads to bind the GMP product. The beads are allowed to settle for 30 minutes and then read on a NXT TopCount scintillation counter. Data are analyzed with a curve fitting application for plate based screening. Percent inhibition in this assay is calculated as follows Inhibition mean maximum compound value mean maximum mean minimum 100.

The ICvalue is determined from sigmoid dose response curves of enzyme activity versus compound concentration.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound was tested in accordance with Method 1. The corresponding PDE5 ICvalues measured are reported in Table A.

Compounds previously disclosed in examples from WO2004096810 were tested in accordance with Method 1. The corresponding PDE5 ICvalues measured are reported in Table B.

The PDE5 ICof a test compound also can be measured in an alternative in vitro assay that varies from Method 1 as described below 

Stocks of standard and test compound are prepared at 2 mM in 100 DMSO. The test compound is serially diluted in a dilution plate using a 10 point log dilution format such that the starting concentration in the assay is 2 M for an initial ICscreen confirmatory ICs are done using a 10 point log dilution. 27 l of Buffer A are added to the wells of the assay plates. From the dilution plate 3 l of diluted compound is delivered in duplicate or 3 l of 100 DMSO for positive and negative controls are added. 30 l of enzyme are added. For the negative control wells Buffer B is substituted in place of the enzyme. 30 l of labeled substrate are added to all wells.

After incubating for 60 minutes at room temperature the reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 l of the yttrium silicate beads. These beads are dense and require constant agitation while being added to the plate. The plates are sealed and shaken on a plate shaker for fifteen minutes to allow the beads to bind the GMP product.

After allowing the beads to settle for 30 minutes plates are read on a NXT TopCount scintillation counter and the data are analyzed as follows. Percent inhibition values are calculated using the means of the 0 and 100 controls on each plate. The estimates of the 4 parameters of the logistic sigmoid dose response model are then calculated using the well level percent inhibition value for the compound. The formula for the four parameter logistic model may be expressed as Y a d 1 X c b d where Y is the response X is the concentration a is the lower asymptote minimum response d is the upper asymptote maximum response c is the model IC in the same units as X and b is the slope as described in De Lean A. P. J. Munson and D. Rodbard Simultaneous analysis of families of sigmoidal curves application to bioassay radioligand assay and physiological dose response curves. Am. J. Physiol. 235 2 E97 E102 1978 . These estimates are used to calculate the concentration that corresponds to 50 inhibition.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound was tested in accordance with Method 1a. The corresponding PDE5 ICvalues measured are reported in Table C.

Compounds previously disclosed in examples from WO2004096810 were tested in accordance with Method la. The corresponding PDE5 ICvalues measured are reported in Table D.

The inhibition of PDE6 enzyme activity by a test compound can be measured in accordance with the in vitro assay of Method 1 but instead using semi purified PDE6 enzyme isolated from human bovine or canine retina in place of PDE5 enzyme. This assay measures the PDE6 ICvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound required to inhibit by 50 the PDE6 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of H cGMP to the 5 nucleotide H GMP relative to the activity of uninhibited controls . 3H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads and is detected by scintillation counting.

Lift the retina with care and locate the optic nerve. Cut through the optic nerve and transfer the retina to a small dish containing a few ml of homogenisation buffer. Gently float the retina out on the surface of the buffer and remove any obvious pigmented material from the iris. Place the retina in a second dish with clean buffer to remove last traces of pigment and then transfer to a 50 ml Corning Costar centrifuge tube Sigma and keep on ice.

The inhibition of PDE6 enzyme activity by a test compound also can be measured in accordance with the in vitro assay of Method 1A but instead using semi purified PDE6 enzyme isolated from human bovine or canine retina in place of PDE5 enzyme. This assay measures the PDE6 ICvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound required to inhibit by 50 the PDE6 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of H cGMP to the 5 nucleotide H GMP relative to the activity of uninhibited controls . 3H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads and is detected by scintillation counting.

The inhibition of PDE11 enzyme activity by a test compound can be measured in accordance with the in vitro assay of Method 1 but instead using PDE11 enzyme expressed in Sf9 insect cells in place of PDE5 enzyme. This assay measures the PDE11 ICvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound required to inhibit by 50 the PDE11 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of H cGMP to the 5 nucleotide H GMP relative to the activity of uninhibited controls . 3H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads and is detected by scintillation counting.

The inhibition of PDE11 enzyme activity by a test compound also can be measured in accordance with the in vitro assay of Method 1A but instead using PDE11 enzyme expressed in Sf9 insect cells in place of PDE5 enzyme. This assay measures the PDE11 ICvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound required to inhibit by 50 the PDE11 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of H cGMP to the 5 nucleotide H GMP relative to the activity of uninhibited controls . 3H GMP binds to yttrium silicate SPA beads and is detected by scintillation counting.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound was tested in accordance with Method 2 Method 2A Method 3 and Method 3A. The corresponding PDE6 and PDE11 ICvalues measured are reported in Table E.

Compounds previously disclosed in examples from WO2004096810 were tested in accordance with Method 2 Method 2A Method 3 and Method 3A. The corresponding PDE6 and PDE11 ICvalues measured are reported in Table F.

Additional assays that can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of a test compound include Method 4 Method 4A Method 5 and Method 6 described below 

An ex vivo assay can be used to measure the direct relaxation of a rat aortic ring exposed to a test compound. As more specifically described below a test compound that inhibits PDE5 activity elicits a relaxation of the aortic ring by enhancing the cGMP signal i.e. by inhibiting PDE5 enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis of cGMP to GMP evoked when the aortic ring is exposed to a stable exogenous nitric oxide donor such as diethyltriamine NONOate diazen 1 ium 1 2 diolate also known as DETA NO . The assay measures the ECvalue for the test compound i.e. the concentration of the test compound which produces 50 of the maximum possible effective response for the test compound .

Male Sprague Dawley rats 250 350 g are asphyxiated using COgas and their thoracic aortas carefully excised and placed in Krebs buffer. The aortas are then carefully dissected free of connective tissue and divided into 8 sections each 3 4 mm in length.

Aortic rings are suspended between parallel stainless steel wires in a water jacketed 37 C. 15 mL tissue bath under a resting tension of 1 gram. Tension is measured using isometric tension transducers and recorded using Ponemah tissue platform system. Each preparation is allowed to equilibrate for at least 60 minutes prior to compound testing. During this time the tissues are also incubated with 200 uM NG monomethyl L arginine L NMMA and the incubation media changed every 15 to 20 minutes L NMMA is added after each wash to maintain the final concentration at 200 uM in each tissue bath .

Following the equilibration period baseline tensions are recorded for each tissue. The vasoconstrictor response to phenylepherine 1 uM is assessed and when the response to phenylepherine reaches a maximum vascular reactivity is subsequently assessed by a challenge of acetylcholine 1 uM . Following another washout period a second baseline value is recorded after adding the vasoconstrictor noradrenaline 25 nM to each bath and incubating the tissues for a time period about 15 minutes sufficient for the tissues to achieve a stable tone. An exogenous nitric oxide drive is supplied using the stable nitric oxide donor DETA NO. The concentration of DETA NO is titrated cumulatively in half log increments to achieve approximately 5 to 15 relaxation of the noradrenaline evoked preconstriction. Cumulative concentration response curves are constructed in a single ring typically using 5 doses ring and allowing 15 minutes between each addition.

Method 4 can be modified to provide an alternative protocol for measuring the direct relaxation of rat aortic rings exposed to a test compound. This alternative method varies from Method 4 as described below 

For the alternative method the endothelium is first removed by gently rubbing the lumen of the vessel together between the fingers prior to preparing the rings denuded rings . The resting tension is set at 2 grams and the vasoconstrictor response to a maximal concentration of phenylepherine 1 M is assessed followed after a washout period by two further exposures to 300 nM of pheylephrine. The concentration response relationship to noradrenaline is constructed in each tissue over concentration range 0.1 to 300 nM. After another washout period the tissues are constricted with an ECconcentration of noradrenaline for compound testing.

The effect of a test compound on systemic arterial blood pressure can be evaluated in a conscious pre cannulated spontaneously hypertensive rat SHR model. This assay is conducted using an automated blood sampler ABS system. The Culex ABS system Bioanalytical System Inc. West Lafayette Ind. comprises a laptop computer four control units and metabolic cages. This ABS system allows for the collection of multiple blood samples from a single rat without causing undue stress to the animal. In addition the ABS system allows for the collection of urine samples that can be potentially used for biomarker identifications. Through this approach efficacy and standard pharmacokinetic studies are conducted in the conscious unrestrained SHR rats simultaneously to define the relationship between plasma free drug concentration or potential biomarker s and pharmacological effect reduction of mean arterial blood pressure .

SHR rats at 12 to 16 weeks of age weighing about 300 g undergo surgerical cannulation of both jugular veins and the right carotid artery. After surgical recovery animals are placed in the Culex cages and tethered to a movement responsive arm with a sensor that controls cage movement when the animal moves to prevent the catheters from being twisted. Connections are made between the right jugular catheter and the Culex sterile tubing set for blood sampling and the left jugular catheter for compound administration and the catheter in the right carotid artery is connected to a pressure transducer for monitoring blood pressure. To keep the patency of the catheters the right jugular cannula is maintained by the tend function of the Culex that flushes the catheter with 20 L heparin saline 10 units mL every 12 minutes or between sampling events and the left jugular cannula is filled with heparin saline 20 units mL . The patency of the right carotid cannula is maintained by slow infusion of heparin saline either directly into the extend tubing when blood pressure is not recorded or through the pressure transducer during the blood pressure monitoring. Animals are allowed to acclimate for at least two hours before compound evaluation. The test compound may be administered intravenously or by oral gavage. Blood sampling protocols sampling time and volume are programmed using the Culex software. The total amount of blood withdrawn from each animal will not exceed 750 pU24 hrs and 10 mUkg within two weeks. Heart rate blood pressure and drug concentration are monitored. Systemic arterial blood pressure and heart rate are recorded by PONEMAH Gould Instrument System Valley View Ohio a pressure transducer through a data acquisition system for recording blood pressure and heart rate for 6 to 24 hours based on experimental protocol. Mean arterial blood pressure primary endpoint is analyzed for assessing the efficacy of the compound.

Blood samples are analyzed for measuring plasma drug concentration using the LC MS MS method described below and for evaluating potential biomarkers.

Sample Preparation Plasma samples 50 L unknown control or blank are mixed with 10 L acetonitrile water or a standard solution of the test compound and 150 L of internal standard solution 100 ng mL of the test compound in acetonitrile . The mixture is centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 5 min and 125 L of the supernatant transferred to a 96 well plate. The solvent is evaporated under a stream of nitrogen and the residue is reconstituted with 80 L acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous formic acid 20 80 v v .

A 20 L volume of each prepared sample is injected onto a Phenomenex Synergi 4 m MAX RP 2.0 75 mm column and eluted at 0.4 mL min using gradient elution from 0.1 aqueous formic acid mobile phase A to acetonitrile mobile phase B . The gradient program consists of initial application of 90 mobile phase A followed by a linear gradient to 75 mobile phase B from 0.2 to 1.15 min after injection and held at 75 mobile phase B until 2.0 min. The mobile phase was linearly changed back to 90 mobile phase A from 2.00 to 2.10 minutes and the next injection took place at 3.00 min. Detection was performed by mass spectrometry using positive ion electrospray ESI with multiple reaction monitoring of the transitions m z 454.00 MH the test compound m z 408.00 m z 466.24 MH the test compound 409.33. The ion spray voltagea is set at 5000. A calibration curve is constructed by using peak area ratios of the analyte relative to the internal standard. Subject concentrations are determined by inverse prediction from their peak area ratios against the calibration curve.

Method 6 Implantation of Radio Transmitters and Subsequent Blood Pressure Screening by Telemetry in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats

The effect of a test compound on systemic arterial blood pressure can be evaluated in a spontaneously hypertensive rat SHR model using telemetry. SHR Rats are anesthetized with isoflurane gas via an isoflurane anesthesia machine that is calibrated to deliver isoflurane over a range of percentages as oxygen passes through the machine s inner chambers. The animals are placed in an induction chamber and administered isoflurane at 4 5 to reach a surgical plane of anesthesia. They are then maintained at 1 2 during the surgical procedure via a nose cone with isoflurane delivered via a smaller isoflurane anesthesia device on the surgical table.

Following administration of anesthesia the rats are implanted with transmitters using aseptic procedures with commercially available sterile radio telemetry units Data Sciences International Roseville Minn. 55113 1136 . Prior to surgery the surgical field is shaved scrubbed with Dial brand antimicrobial solution containing 4 chlorhexidine gluconate and 4 isopropyl alcohol followed by an application of iodine 10 spray solution. A 2.5 to 3.0 cm laparotomy is preformed and the radio telemetry units implanted into the abdomen with the catheter tip inserted into the abdominal aorta. Baby Weitlaner retractors are used to retain soft tissue. A 1 cm section of the abdominal aorta is partially dissected and that section cross clamped briefly punctured with a 21 gauge needle and the transmitter catheter tip introduced into the vessel and secured by a single 4.0 silk suture anchored to the adjacent psoas muscle. The transmitter body is then inserted into the abdominal cavity and simultaneously secured to the abdominal muscle wall while closing with running 4.0 silk suture. The skin layer is closed with subdermal continuous 4.0 absorbable suture. A subcutaneous s.c. administration of marcaine followed by a topical application of iodine is administered into and around the suture line respectively upon closing. All rats receive a postoperative injection of buprenorphine 0.05 mg kg s.c. before regaining consciousness. A typical dose volume for a 0.300 kg rat will be 0.050 ml. The rats must be fully recovered from their operative anesthesia before the administration of buprenorphine. They then receive the same dose once daily for 2 consecutive days unless the animal demonstrates that it is in compromising postoperative pain.

Following surgery the rats are returned to their cages and housed individually on solid bottom caging with paper bedding. A period of no less than 7 days is allowed for recovery before experimental procedures are initiated. It has been observed that the rats are typically hypertensive for several days following surgery and return to normotensive levels by approximately the 7day post surgery. They are fed standard rat chow and water ad libitum throughout the experimental time line.

Test compounds are administered intragastrically i.g. via gavage using of a stainless steel 2 inch 18 gauge gavage needle with a balled end. For single daily dosing the target volume is 3.33 ml kg i.g. The dose volume for the test compound is approximately 1 mV rat. The vehicles in which the test compound is administered is methylcellulose 0.5 Tween 80 0.1 in 50 mM citrate buffer pH 5.0.

Blood pressure data will be obtained using Data Sciences International s data acquisition program Version 3.0 . Blood pressure samples are recorded at 1.5 3 minute intervals for a 5 second duration 24 hours per day for the entire study. This data is processed by Data Science s data analysis software into averages of a desired time inervals. All other data reduction is performed in Microsoft Excel spreadsheets.

An in vitro micronucleus assay can be used to determine the mutagenic potential of a test compound. This assay detects chromosome abnormalities resulting from exposure to a test compound by measuring the formation of small membrane bound DNA fragments such as micronuclei in the cytoplasm of interphase cells.

The assay is conducted using Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells under different test conditions in the absence and presence of metabolic activation. Concordance in outcomes between this screening assay and in vitro cytogenetics is around 85 . Direct S9 testing is conducted using 24 hour or 3 hour continuous treatments whereas testing with metabolic activation S9 involves a 3 hour treatment. Clastogenicity is indicated by an increase in numbers of micronucleated cells in the first interphase after exposure in cytokinesis blocked binucleated cells . The results are compared to the level of cytotoxicity measured by the proportion of binucleated cells a test compound produces. To demonstrate validity of the test negative vehicle treated and positive a known responder controls are required to respond within established historical ranges.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound was tested in accordance with Method 7 and yielded an equivocal result.

Compounds previously disclosed in examples from WO2004096810 that were tested in accordance with Method 7. The corresponding micronucleus assay results are reported in Table G.

Additional assays that can be used to evaluate the toxicity of a test compound e.g. where the micronucleus assay yields an equivocal result include Method 8 Method 9 and Method 10 described below 

An in vitro structural chromosome aberration assay can be used to evaluate a test compound for its ability to induce structural and numerical chromosome aberrations in the presence and absence of mammalian metabolic activation in human peripheral lymphocytes.

Concentration calculations are based on the corresponding moiety factor of 1.000. The test compound is dissolved and diluted in DMSO which will serve as the vehicle control at a volume equivalent to that used to deliver the test compound 1 final concentration .

Heparinized human peripheral venous blood from a healthy male volunteer are added to culture medium followed by addition of phytohemagglutinin M Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. to stimulate the cellular division of lymphocytes. The primary cultures are incubated for at least 46 hours prior to treatment with the test compound.

The highest test concentration selected for analysis should meet 1 of the following criteria 1 produces approximately a 50 reduction of the mitotic index compared to the vehicle controls 2 shows evidence of incomplete solubility or 3 is equivalent to the maximum concentration of 5000 g mL or 10 mM whichever is lower . When possible 100 acceptable diploid metaphase cells from each culture are evaluated for chromosome damage. An exception to this is an apparent increase in the frequency of abnormal cells during data collection i.e. 10 aberrant cells are tallied in the first 50 acceptable cells in which case further analysis is discontinued. Metaphase cells selected for analysis must be intact i.e. have 46 2 chromosomes and have a minimum of overlapping chromosomes. In addition the chromosomes should appear elongated such that the individual arms and centromeric regions can be readily identified. Each metaphase cell is classified as normal or abnormal with the type s and number of abnormalities present per cell recorded. For abnormal cells the stage X and Y vernier co ordinates of the slide are recorded. Structural chromosome aberrations are classified as chromatid break Ct brk chromatid fragments Ct Frg chromatid damage including exchanges rings dicentrics and translocations R chromosome breaks CsBrk chromosome fragments Cs Frg and multiple breaks M . In addition cells with pulverized chromosomes PV are collected in the total aberration tally. Cells that contained gaps are recorded but not included in the total aberration tally. Numerical chromosome aberrations are determined for each treatment condition and the concurrent vehicle controls by evaluating the number of polyploid and endoreduplicated cells. The polyploidy indices are obtained by scoring when possible 1000 metaphase cells culture while tabulating the number of metaphase cells that are polyploid or endoreduplicated.

A Fisher s Exact 1 tailed test on the total number of aberrant cells from each treatment group compared to the total aberrant cells from the negative controls are used as the statistical analysis.A p value 0.05 is considered to be statistically significant. An assay is considered valid if the following criteria are met 

The toxicity of a test compound can be evaluated in a rat model. This study determines the potential toxicity of and systemic exposure to test compounds when administered by oral gavage once daily for 7 consecutive days to 6 to 8 week old male Charles River SD IGS rats weighing between 175 g and 200 g. This study is conducted using the Xybion Path Tox System Xybion Medical Systems Corporation Cedar Knolls N.J. .

The test compound is dosed orally once for 7 days by gavage at a volume of 10 mUkg of body weight. The test compound is administered to 3 groups of rats n 5 getting doses of 30 mg kg day 100 mg kg day and 500 mg kg day respectively. A control group n 5 receives vehicle 0.5 Methylcellulose w v and 0.1 Polysorbate 80 v v in 50 mM phosphate buffer . The oral route is used because it is the intended route of exposure in humans. The appropriate amount of test compound is suspended in 0.5 methylcellulose w v and 0.1 polysorbate 80 v v in 50 mM citrate buffer. The dosing suspension pH is maintained between 3 and 9.

Every animal is serially bled at 1 3 8 and 24 hours post dose on Day 1. Urine is collected approximately 24 hours for metabolic analysis. Survival and moribundity observations are conducted once daily during the pre treatment period. Clinical signs are observed daily 1 3 hours post dose. Animals are euthanized via exsanguination after 7 days. Animals found dead are refrigerated and necropsied at the earliest possible time within working hours . Terminal body weights blood samples and organ weights are not taken from animals found dead. Moribund unscheduled scheduled animals that are sacrificed are taken immediately to necropsy and body weights blood samples and all clinical clinical pathology samples except for urine samples are taken.

Various tissues adrenal femur bone brain cecum colon duodenum epididymis heart ileum jejunum kidney liver pancreas biceps femoris skeletal muscle spleen stomach testis thymus thyroid lumbar spinal cord and mesenteric lymph node will be weighed flash freezed stained and fixed. After macroscopic examination tissues collected with gross abnormalities are retained in formalin. All tissues collected with gross abnormalities are processed and examined microscopically by the pathologist. Tissues are trimmed embedded sectioned and stained with hem atoxylin and eosin and examined microscopically by the pathologist at the pathologist s discretion. Bone marrow smears are prepared and stained with Wright s stain. To elucidate the nature of an individual animal s tissue change additional tissue collection sectioning staining and microscopic examination is conducted as requested by the pathologist.

Clinical observations body weights gross necropsy observations and histopathologic findings are directly entered into the Xybion Path Tax System.

A mutagenicity test also known as the Ames test can be used to determine the mutagenic potential of a test compound. This assay measures the mutation rate of bacteria that are exposed to a test compound. See for example Ames B. N. Durston W. E. Yamasaki E. and Lee F. D. 1973 Carcinogens are mutagens a simple test system combining liver homogenates for activation and bacteria for detection. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 70 2281 2285 . Some carcinogens become activated when they are enzymatically transformed to an electrophilic species capable of covalently binding to DNA. In the Ames assay S9 9000 g supernatant fractions are prepared from the livers of rats pretreated with phenobarbital PB 5 6 benzoflavone BF or Aroclor 1254 to induce such drug metabolizing enzyme activity.

The BioLum Ames assay is a higher throughput screening version of the standard bacterial Ames gene mutation assay. To demonstrate validity of the test negative vehicle treated and positive a known responder controls are required to respond within established historical ranges.

An in vivo model can be used to evaluate the single dose pharmacokinetic properties and absolute oral bioavailability of a test compound. As described more specifically below a test compound is administered to Sprague Dawley SD rats either intravenously or orally in a crossover study design and the resulting pharmacokinetic properties and oral bioavailability are measured.

Male rats are administered a 2.0 mg kg dose orally n 2 by gavage as a suspension 0.5 methylcellulose 0.1 Tween 80 in distilled water . After a 72 hour wash out periond the same rats were administered 2.0 mg kg dose bolus intravenously n 2 as a solution 70 PEG 400 20 0.05 M Citrate Buffer pH 3 10 Ethanol . Serial blood samples for plasma are collected from each rat over a 24 hour post dose for each route. Plasma concentrations of test compound are determined using a LC MS MS method with a lower limit of quantitation LLOQ of 1.2 for 534 ng mL. Pharmacokinetic parameters of a test compound are determined from the plasma concentration time data using non compartmental methods.

Watson Version 6.4.0.04 is used to calculate mean test compound concentrations corresponding standard deviations SD and percent coefficient of variation CV and to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters derived by noncompartmental methods and associated statistics mean SD CV if applicable. Since n 2 no SD or CV calculated . Concentrations below the limit of quantitation BLQ are reported as zero 0 and are used in the evaluation of mean concentrations and the estimation of AUC. The peak plasma concentration C and the time to reach peak concentration tmax are recorded directly from individual plasma concentration time profiles. The terminal log linear phase of the plasma concentration time curve is identified by linear regression of data points. The terminal half life t is calculated as ln 2 divided by absolute value of the slope of the terminal log linear phase. The area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero to time of the last quantifiable concentration t AUC is determined using the linear trapezoidal method. The area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero to infinity AUC is determined as AUCplus the extrapolated area. The extrapolated area is determined by dividing the last observed plasma concentration by the slope of the terminal log linear phase. Systemic plasma clearance CL is calculated as dose AUCwhile the volume of distribution at steady state V is calculated as CL MRT where MRT mean residence time is defined as AUMC AUC. The absolute PO bioavailability F is calculated as a ratio of the dose normalized AUCof individual animal after PO administration to the dose normalized AUCof individual animal after IV administration given the crossover study design. The peak plasma concentration C the time to reach peak concentration t the terminal half life t the area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero to infinity AUC the volume of distribution at steady state V the systemic plasma clearance CL and the absolute PO bioavailability F are shown in Table C.

The Carboxypiperidine Compound was tested in accordance with Method 11 and the results are reported in Table H. Compounds previously disclosed in examples from WO2004096810 were tested in accordance with Method 11. Results for these compounds are also are reported in Table H.

A study was conducted to assess the effect of repeated oral dosing of the Carboxypiperidine Compound on blood pressure lowering and whether co administration of the Carboxypiperidine Compound and the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril could result in further blood pressure lowering. The study consisted of treating spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR telemetered as described in Method F with the Carboxypiperidine Compound 1 mg kg once daily oral and enalapril 0.007 in drinking water alone and in combination for 7 days n 12 group . The Carboxypiperidine Compound reduced blood pressure from a pre dose baseline value in comparison to a vehicle treated group by 11 1 mmHg on day 1. The reduction in blood pressure was sustained for the 7 day period remaining 9 1 mmHg below the pre dose baseline on day 7.

Enalapril also reduced blood pressure from a pre dose baseline value in comparison to a vehicle treated group with a maximal reduction of 22 2 mmHg on day 7. The combination of the Carboxypiperidine Compound plus enalapril reduced blood pressure more than blood pressure was reduced by each agent alone on all days.

Changes in the urinary cGMP mechanistic biomarker were assessed over the 24 hour period on day 9. cGMP was elevated in a 0 24 hour urine collection in both the Carboxypiperidine Compound and the Carboxypiperidine Compound enalapril combination groups in comparison to the vehicle treated group n 12 group .

All documents mentioned in this application are expressly incorporated by reference as if fully set forth at length. When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

