---

title: Mapping business questions to source system data elements
abstract: Various embodiments of the invention can be used to organize and prioritize data to optimize the ability to answer business questions and address business needs. A data mapping system may be used to map value driver data elements to business questions to assess which data sets or sources of data are more important than others when assessing the business questions. This can assist in the process of identifying the most useful and accurate data for assessing a business question.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694541&OS=08694541&RS=08694541
owner: The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
number: 08694541
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101001
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to acquiring and applying data necessary to address business questions requirements and other related issues. More particularly in certain embodiments of the invention data elements may be mapped to various kinds of business questions to assist in the processing of answering the business questions.

Firms companies financial institutions and other corporate entities expend significant financial resources to understand the questions issues and requirements that impact the business environment in which they operate.

Calculating a return on investment for various business activities such as employee training can be a speculative exercise under the best of circumstances. For example trying to understand the business issue of why employee training costs are at a certain level of expense or how to improve the effectiveness of training can be daunting tasks. The data sets necessary to perform these analyses can be difficult or prohibitively costly to obtain and the collected data may be inaccurate or incomplete. Also even if such data are available in a digestible format the data may not reflect the correct or most useful kind of indicators necessary to measure and assess the economic value of human resource activities such as employee training.

In view of the foregoing issues enhanced systems processes tools techniques and strategies are needed for optimally correlating business requirements or questions with data sets that can be used to properly assess the business questions.

Embodiments of the present invention provide enhanced processes methods tools strategies and techniques for more effectively and efficiently managing the data needed to assess business questions requirements and other issues. Such business questions may involve a wide range of issues facing a business including human resource requirements such as training and recruiting for example.

The inventor has recognized that business requirements such as human resource outcomes need to align with other aspects of the business. For example business questions such as how recruiting affects sales and how training affects sales are important to understand. In addition how the company knows that employees have the skills necessary for a task like sales and which skills are more important than others in the sales force are other important considerations. For example are there different skills for providing customer service and are there different skills for offering mortgage products As described below various embodiments of the present invention may provide a hierarchical framework for analyzing such business questions or requirements.

Information technology specialists may not always prioritize or evaluate data through the lens of business value and embodiments of the present invention can provide tools to assist in that process of focusing on business priorities. For example prioritizing data and its impact on business questions can be important when a business leader asks whether an employee for a key role in the company should be hired internally or externally. Various embodiments of the invention can be used to organize and prioritize data to optimize the ability to answer business questions and address business needs. In various embodiments the present invention may map value driver data elements to business questions to assess which data sets or sources of data are more important than others. This can assist in the process of identifying data elements that will be most useful for assessing different business questions.

In various embodiments of the invention strategies tools and techniques are provided for associating or mapping business questions or other business requirements with data elements that provide insight or answers to the business questions. With regard to hierarchical data structures can be implemented within a data mapping system structured and programmed in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The data mapping system may be a computer system that includes a processor one or more data storage media and one or more computer program modules A C that perform various functions within the system . For example a data hierarchy module A may allow a variety of users to modify or implement various data hierarchies as described below . A data element module B may be programmed to retrieve or present data elements obtained from one or more source systems operatively associated with the mapping system . The source systems may be external or internal computer systems employed by an organization such as a financial institution for example or another firm company or corporate entity. One or more other modules C programmed with instructions to cause the processor to execute various tasks may also be included within the mapping system . The data storage media may be used to store data hierarchies data elements or output results obtained from the analysis of a business requirement for example. The data storage media may include one more Access databases for example or another suitable database structure or software.

With reference to an example of a data hierarchy is schematically illustrated. The data hierarchy may include a first data level in which a business question A or requirement of a firm company or other institution can be received. Within the data hierarchy a second data level can be connected to the first data level . The second data level may be associated with a data factor or data component that at least partially impacts an answer or other resolution to the business requirement specified in the first data level . It can be appreciated that there may be multiple other data levels included within the data hierarchy such as other data levels positioned in the data hierarchy subsequent to the second data level for example. In various embodiments an action data node can be included within a final data level connected to a preceding data level in the data hierarchy .

In the example shown the final data level is connected to another data level positioned between the second data level and the final data level . In various embodiments the action data node includes one or more data elements associated with a data factor included within the final data level . In various embodiments the data elements may be considered value driver data elements that provide an answer or other insights into the business requirement identified in the first data level . In certain embodiments one or more values for the data elements may be retrieved from a data storage device associated with one or more source systems for example such as with the processor of the mapping system . It can be seen that various embodiments of the invention permit a business requirement to be mapped to various types of data elements that are instructive with regard to assessment of the business requirement.

With reference to described below an example of a mapping database is illustrated that can be structured and programmed in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In the following examples an institution may be interested in addressing business questions such as understanding recruiting effectiveness or increasing the effectiveness of an employee trainer. For example factors to consider in addressing trainer effectiveness could include assessing trainee data trainer data course content and analysis trainer profile and whether the trainer is internal or external to the institution. Embodiments of the invention recognize that there may be different levels of business performance in the employee training area as a function of different factors. It can be seen that embodiments of the data hierarchy may also provide a roadmap to the most correct or optimum data elements associated with answering a business question. Embodiments of the invention can be used to assist with assessing such optimization issues. For example in the context of training the training team and human resources personnel can be presented with data that support aligning an external trainer versus an internal trainer with more seasoned professionals e.g. who are trying to do new sales or new product invention . Likewise the data elements may support the proposition that employing an external trainer for new employees e.g. customer service personnel will not be as effective as an internal trainer.

With regard to an example of a data hierarchy is illustrated that can be employed by various embodiments of the data mapping system of the present invention. For example at ID a business question called Improve Recruiting Effectiveness has been entered into a first data level i.e. Level 1 . At a second data level i.e. Level 2 subsequent to and connected to the first data level it has been recognized that a factor of Sourcing impacts the business question of Improve Recruiting Effectiveness . Furthermore at a third data level i.e. Level 3 it has been recognized that a data factor of Internal Hire Opportunities impacts the Sourcing factor of the preceding data level and ultimately is connected to the business question included in the first data level . At a final data level a data factor of Transfers is included within the action data node of the data hierarchy. Multiple data elements may be associated with the Transfers data factor that ultimately assist with addressing the business question of Improve Recruiting Effectiveness included in the first data level . It can be seen that further data levels such as data level i.e. Level 5 may also be included within the data hierarchy. This can provide a preview on what data is necessary to answer the business question as well as provide key input to data requirements for information technology teams or other technical teams for example.

With reference to an example of the data hierarchy is illustrated for the business question of Increase Effectiveness of Training and Development included at a first data level . As shown at a final data level including an External data factor various data elements are included at the action data node of the data hierarchy. Each data element can be associated with a source system such as a computer system or data storage location from which the data element has been collected or received. A history field may provide an indication of how the data element has evolved over time and how it has been designated as a value driver data element for example. A derived field indicator may provide an indication of whether the data element has been derived from a data model a regression analysis for example or whether it has been applied from a source document e.g. a resume . The screen display of illustrates a tool that can be used to edit or modify the various data levels of a data hierarchy structured in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

It can be appreciated that comparing the example shown in in view of the example shown in reveals another useful aspect of certain embodiments of the invention. Each example takes a different path to address the Increase Effectiveness of Training and Development business question. It may be useful to compare output results obtained from application of each data hierarchy to identify which hierarchy and or which data elements offered the best insight into the answer to the business question. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can be employed to facilitate comparisons of the results of different data hierarchies to identify optimum data elements and to apportion resources appropriately when acquiring those optimum data elements.

Those skilled in the art can appreciate that embodiments of the present invention can provide a tool for answering business questions while identifying the best or most correct data to address the questions. This can be especially useful when deciding how to allocate resources necessary to retrieve and process the desired data elements. For example certain data sets that have greater predictive power can be ranked or prioritized over other data sets that have less capability to address business questions. Also business considerations such as return on investment risk management and many others can be employed in connection with the process of prioritizing the data elements and how to collect data.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures user interface layouts or screen displays described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused discussions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Various embodiments may be employed in a Lotus Notes environment for example. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer systems data storage media or modules described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components or computer architecture. For example the data mapping system or the data hierarchy structure may employ such components or architecture. Also it is contemplated that various users of the data mapping system may interact or communicate with the system in a variety of ways. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

