---

title: Placing filler cells in device design based on designation of sensitive feature in standard cell
abstract: An instantiation of a standard cell is placed at a location of a device design. The standard cell includes a designation identifying a sensitive feature of the standard cell. An instantiation of a filler cell is placed at a selective location of the device design based on the designation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08239799&OS=08239799&RS=08239799
owner: Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 08239799
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100107
---
The present disclosure relates generally to data processing devices and more particularly to the design of data processing devices.

Modern integrated circuit data processing devices can include large numbers of transistors. Consequently design engineers typically make use of design automation tools and associated techniques to increase their design productivity. For example an integrated circuit data processing device can be implemented using logic components known as standard cells which the designer selects from a predefined standard cell library. Automated standard cell placement and signal routing tools can be used to assemble a virtual representation of the physical integrated circuit data processing device by instantiating and interconnecting symbolic representations of the standard cell circuitry at a computer aided design CAD system. The virtual representation of the device can be designed and evaluated using the CAD system and can then be used to manufacture the integrated circuit data processing device.

As disclosed herein placement of standard cells at a data processing device is determined based on a designation that can be associated with a symbolic representation of a standard cell. The designation identifies a location at the standard cell of a feature that can be affected by another feature in proximity to the standard cell. For example the designation can identify the location of a transistor of a standard cell having a performance attribute that can be adversely affected by the placement of an adjacent standard cell. In an embodiment filler cells can be placed adjacent to the standard cell based on the location of the standard cell s designation to reduce or prevent the effects of adjacent transistors or other feature on the standard cell. In another embodiment a filler cell can be placed adjacent to the standard cell based on a location of the standard cell s designation to reduce or prevent the effects of an adjacent transistor or other feature when the standard cell including the designation is included in a logic path that is identified as a critical timing path.

A feature whose operation is subject to being affected by the presence of an adjacent feature can be referred to as a sensitive feature. A feature whose presence affects a sensitive feature can be referred to as an aggressor feature. An aggressor feature can affect an attribute of a sensitive feature at an adjacent standard cell and thereby affect the operation of the adjacent standard cell. For example an aggressor feature can affect the timing the sub threshold leakage or another attribute of an adjacent standard cell. A sensitive feature can include an active device such as a transistor. Thus an aggressor feature located in proximity to a transistor identified as a sensitive feature can affect the operation of the transistor. An aggressor feature can be classified as an active aggressor feature or a passive aggressor feature. An example of a passive aggressor feature is a shallow trench isolation STI region that can exert a form of material stress on device channel areas in the vicinity to the STI region. An example of an active aggressor feature is a conductor at an adjacent standard cell capable of coupling excessive levels of signal noise to a sensitive feature. The present disclosure provides techniques for improving the performance of an integrated circuit data processing device by placing a filler cell adjacent to a standard cell that includes a sensitive feature wherein the filler cell does not include an aggressor feature relative to the sensitive feature. The filler cell may or may not include any functional devices.

In one embodiment application modules and are CAD software modules that can each be executed as described herein to perform an associated design function. Characterization module is operable to evaluate a standard cell of a standard cell library to determine if the standard cell includes a sensitive feature. For example characterization module can simulate the effects that an adjacent aggressor feature could have on the timing characteristics of the standard cell. LEF module is operable to annotate a symbolic representation of a standard cell that has been determined to include a sensitive feature with one or more designations that identify the location of each sensitive feature within the layout of the standard cell being evaluated. These designations are referred to as LEF designations. Timing module is operable to analyze the timing characteristics of logic paths included at a device design where a logic path typically includes multiple standard cells. The timing module can be used to determine if and by what margin each logic path satisfies a desired operating frequency goal. Placement module is operable to determine the placement physical location of each standard cell at an integrated circuit. The placement of standard cells is based on the presence and location of LEF designations at the standard cells being placed. For example placement module can place a filler cell adjacent to a standard cell having a LEF designation to assure that a standard cell having an aggressor feature is not located in a close enough proximity to the location of the LEF designation of the standard cell to affect an attribute of the sensitive feature of the standard cell to a significant degree. The various modules will be discussed in detail below.

A standard cell library includes a plurality of predefined standard cells that can include logic devices and analog devices that can be used in a device design to implement an integrated circuit data processing device. A standard cell typically includes multiple models and views viewpoints that are provided to represent various aspects of the standard cell. For example a standard cell can include a functional model that documents the logic operation performed by the standard cell a timing model that provides signal propagation information for the standard cell a circuit netlist that describes the transistor level connectivity of the standard cell and physical views such as a LEF view that describes physical attributes of the standard cell such as the location of physical interface terminals. A device design stored at design file is defined by instantiations that reference standard cells from the standard cell library. For example a counter device can be implemented using one or more instantiations of a specific flip flop and combinatorial logic gates included at a standard cell library.

Design file represents one or more databases used for storing a representation of a device design such as a data processing device and its associated attributes. Design file is stored at memory and can receive design entry information from design engineers and additional design properties and parameters from associated databases. Design file can include an application programming interface API to permit the CAD application modules to access and manipulate device design attribute. A device design at design file can represent a device using one or more models and views. For example the device design can include a register transfer level RTL model that provides a functional description of the device a gate level representation of the device and a transistor level representation of the device. Design file can include additional device design attributes such as any information that a design engineer and the CAD application modules need to develop and model the device. When the design process is complete the information stored at design file can be used for production of the data processing device. For example design file can include a representation of a data processing device design and the device design can include information relating to physical photo mask features that is provided to an integrated circuit manufacturing facility.

Design system includes application modules that are configured to manipulate device design information. An application module can be a software program configured to perform a particular portion of the methods disclosed herein. Each of the application modules including modules and can manipulate device design information included at design file to transform the representation of the device in a desired way.

Characterization module is operable to analyze the operation of a standard cell. In one implementation characterization module can analyze the operation of a standard cell based on a transistor level netlist model of the standard cell to simulate the effect that an adjacent aggressor feature would have on the timing behavior of the standard cell. For example characterization module can perform a plurality of simulations for a standard cell one simulation for each time an electrical characteristic of the standard cell is manipulated in a manner representing the possible effect of an aggressor cell to identify sensitive features at the standard cell. For example characterization module can simulate operation of a standard cell after manipulating a speed characteristic of a transistor of the standard cell to determine the effect of the manipulation. A feature can be marked as a sensitive feature when a particular manipulation affects the overall performance of the standard cell by a more than a desired amount. In another implementation characterization module can analyze the operation of a standard cell based on a model of the standard cell that includes attributes associated with the physical layout of the standard cell. For example the capacitance of conductors included at the standard cell and the effects of mutual capacitance between features of the standard cell can be determined using a parametric extraction design tool not shown at . Thus characterization module can simulate the effect aggressor features such as features associated with another standard cell that can potentially be located in substantially close proximity to the standard cell being characterized. In either implementation characterization module can use transistor level circuit modeling procedures to determine a set up time of an input at the standard cell a rate at which an output of the standard cell transitions based on a set of output loads and other operational characteristics of the standard cell. Furthermore characterization module can determine if the effect that an aggressor feature has on a sensitive feature at the standard cell results in a significant affect on the behavior of the standard cell. For example a variation in a characteristic of a device at a standard cell may or may not have a significant affect on the operation of the standard cell as a whole. Results of the characterization procedure can be stored at standard cell library at memory .

Characterization module can determine the operating characteristics of each standard cell at standard cell library based on a contextual assumption as to the manner in which the standard cell will be placed at an integrated circuit. Generally each standard cell is typically characterized as if it were placed in a single context such as a worst case context despite the fact that the actual placement context of each instantiation of the standard cell at the integrated circuit can vary considerably. Therefore the behavior of a standard cell can be characterized assuming a worst case context that may rarely be experienced which results in the need for excess design margin in most timing paths and a corresponding reduction in the computational performance of the device. Alternatively the present disclosure provides techniques to prevent a standard cell from being placed in a particularly adverse context thereby permitting the standard cell operation to be characterized using less adverse contextual assumption. For example the standard cell can be characterized in a context that includes a filler cell will always be placed adjacent to a sensitive feature at the standard cell.

LEF module is operable to annotate a LEF view of each standard cell with one or more designations that identify the location of sensitive features within a standard cell as determined by characterization module . A LEF view of a standard cell can include only particular physical information that is required by physical layout oriented application modules such as placement module . The LEF view of a standard cell can be better understood with reference to below.

Timing module is operable to determine the timing characteristics of a device design including the timing behavior of each synchronous logic path included at the device design. The timing behavior of a logic path includes timing slack wherein a positive timing slack value indicates that the timing performance of a logic path exceeds the performance required by the frequency of an associated clock signal and a negative slack value indicates that the timing performance of the logic path fails to meet the performance required by the frequency the associated clock. The timing information determined by timing module can be used to further guide placement module in determining whether filler cells are to be placed adjacent to a standard cell containing a sensitive feature. For example placement module need not place a filler cell adjacent to a standard cell having a sensitive feature if the logic patch that includes the standard cell has sufficient positive slack such that the timing slack remains positive despite the adverse effect of an aggressor feature adjacent to the standard cell. Conversely if a logic path that includes a standard cell having a sensitive feature has limited or insufficient positive slack placement module can place filler cells adjacent to the standard cell thereby ensuring a less adverse context for each standard cell of the timing path.

Placement module is operable to determine placement of each standard cell of a data processing device design. Placement of a standard cell can be based on a designation that can be included at a corresponding LEF view of each standard cell. Placement module can place a filler cell adjacent to the standard cell based solely on the presence and on the location of a designation at the standard cell having a sensitive feature. Alternatively placement module can place a filler cell adjacent to a standard cell having a designation only when that standard cell is associated with a logic path that does not have a sufficient positive timing slack. The operation of each application module can be better understood with reference to which are described below.

Standard cell includes three p channel field effect transistor FET devices including transistors and and three n channel FET devices including transistors and . Transistor has a source connected to a voltage reference node labeled VDD a gate connected to an input node labeled IN and a drain connected to a node labeled A. Transistor has a drain connected to node A a gate connected to node IN and a source connected to a voltage reference node labeled VSS. Transistor has a source connected to voltage reference node VDD a gate connected to node A and a source connected to a node labeled B. Transistor has a source connected to voltage reference node VDD a gate connected to an input node labeled IN and a source connected to an output node labeled OUT. Transistor has a drain connected to node OUT a gate connected to node IN and a source connected to a node labeled B. Transistor has a drain connected to node B a gate connected to node A and a source connected to voltage reference node VSS. While field effect transistors such as metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs are illustrated at another transistor technology such as junction FET or bipolar can be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

During operation of design system characterization module can receive a transistor level netlist of a standard cell such as standard cell and analyze the operation of the standard cell. For example characterization module can determine the rate at which transistors switch for a given input and thus determine the delay and a transition rate at which a signal at output node OUT occurs in response to a signal transition at input nodes IN and IN. Furthermore characterization module can identify whether the standard cell includes one or more sensitive features that when affected by an aggressor feature would adversely effect the overall operation of the standard cell. In an embodiment characterization module can identify the presence of sensitive features at the standard cell based on a physical layout view information associated with of the standard cell. For example characterization module can determine that conductors that run parallel to and near a perimeter of the standard cell are more susceptible to cross coupling from an adjacent standard cell than interconnects further from the perimeter of the standard. For the purpose of illustration it is assumed that characterization module has determined that transistor and transistor are sensitive features and that changes to the switching characteristics of these devices due to a proximate aggressor features adversely affects the rate at which a signal propagates from an input node such as IN to output node OUT.

As previously discussed layout view is one of a plurality of design models and views used to represent a data processing device and maintained at design file . Layout view includes information describing the location of each device at the integrated circuit such as the location of the sensitive features associated with transistor and transistor . Having identified each sensitive feature at a standard cell using characterization module and having determined the location of each sensitive feature using a corresponding layout view of each standard cell such as layout view a designation can be provided to a symbolic representation of the standard cell that includes a sensitive feature such as to a LEF view associated with each standard cell.

LEF module is an application module of design system that is configured to annotate the LEF view of each standard cell that contains a sensitive feature with a sensitive feature icon designation corresponding to each sensitive feature. LEF module can specify that each sensitive feature icon be at the edge of the LEF view of a standard and at a location that is adjacent to a corresponding sensitive feature the location determined by a layout view of the standard cell such as layout view of standard cell . For example icon is provided at LEF in close proximity to transistor and icon is provided in close proximity to transistor . Placement module can use the location of sensitive feature icons at a standard cell to constrain placement of other standard cells adjacent to that standard cells. For example placement module can place a filler cell adjacent to the location of a sensitive feature icon at a standard cell and in so doing prevent another standard cell that contains an aggressor feature from being placed adjacent to the sensitive feature such as transistors and at that standard cell.

A sensitive feature designator can be provided at a location other than the edge of the LEF view of a standard cell. For example the location of a sensitive feature icon can correspond to the center of the sensitive feature or the icon can be positioned at another suitable location that allows a placement application module to constrain placement of other standard cells in close proximity to the corresponding sensitive feature. Furthermore a sensitive feature designation can include another polygon shape or may include a single coordinate location at the standard cell LEF view. The annotated LEF information is stored at memory after it is annotated by LEF module . In an embodiment the symbolic representation of a standard cell can include a data file such as a text file. LEF module can identify the location of a sensitive feature at the standard cell and represent the location at the data file accordingly. Placement module can reference the symbolic representation associated with each standard cell at standard cell library .

Standard cells are typically organized in a plurality of rows at an integrated circuit data processing device design wherein the height of each standard cell is typically the same as or an integer multiple of the height of the majority of other cells included at the standard cell library. The width of each standard cell can vary depending on the number and size of transistor devices included at the standard cell. Placement module can determine the relative placement of standard cells in part based on the connectivity of each standard cell to other standard cells. Furthermore in an embodiment placement module is configured to place a filler cell adjacent to a standard cell having a sensitive feature designation. In particular filler cells can be placed at selective locations immediately adjacent to the sensitive feature designation at the standard cell and are not placed at other locations adjacent to the standard cell that do not have a corresponding sensitive feature designation.

For example the standard cell corresponding to LEF symbol includes two sensitive features indicated by designation and designation . Accordingly placement module places a filler cell represented by LEF symbol adjacent to designation and places a filler cell represented by LEF symbol adjacent to designation . Thus placement module is prevented from placing another standard that may contain an aggressor feature adjacent to designations and of LEF symbol . In an embodiment filler cells of varying sizes can be provided at standard cell library and a filler cell of a suitable size can be selected based on the size or the location of the sensitive feature icon at the LEF view of the standard cell. A filler cell can be another functional standard cell used during operation of the device design that does not include an aggressor feature. A filler cell can be a functional standard cell that is not connected to other standard cells to implement a function of the device design. In still another embodiment a filler cell may represent a non functional area at the integrated circuit that is free of any functional devices physical features or that includes only non aggressor features such as may be specified by lithographic feature density guidelines.

Placement module can also determine the relative placement of standard cells based on timing information provided by timing module . For example placement module can place standard cells that are included at a logic path having performance critical timing behavior in close proximity to each other. In an embodiment placement module can place a filler cell adjacent to a sensitive feature designation at a standard cell only when the logic path that includes that standard cell fails to satisfy a device timing goals with a predetermined margin. For example placement module can be configured to place a filler cell adjacent to a sensitive feature designation only when the path containing the standard cell has a positive slack less than a predefined and programmable number of picoseconds or whose slack is less than a predefined percentage of a governing clock signal period. Thus a filler cell may only be required if the possible presence of an aggressor feature close to a standard cell can cause the timing slack of a logic path that includes the standard cell to become negative or fail to provide insufficient design margin. Note that a standard cell may be included in more than one encompassing logic path and the timing slack of each path should be considered when determining if a filler cell is needed.

The flow proceeds from block to decision block where it is determined whether another standard cell included at the integrated circuit data processing device design remains to be placed. If all standard cells included at the device design have been placed the flow is complete. If however another standard cell remains to be placed the flow returns to block where that cell is placed at the device design. Returning to decision block if it is determined that that the standard cell placed at the device design does not include a sensitive feature designation no filler cell is required to be placed adjacent to that standard cell and the flow proceeds to decision block where it can be determined whether another standard cell remains to be placed.

The flow proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the standard cell is included in a critical path. For example timing module can designate that a logic path is a critical path if the timing slack associated with the path is insufficient e.g. does not exceed a predetermined positive amount. If the standard cell is included at a critical path the flow proceeds to block where the placement of a filler cell is assigned adjacent to each respective sensitive feature designation included at the standard cell. If the standard cell is not included at a critical path the flow proceeds to block where the placement of standard cells adjacent to the standard cell is not restricted. The flow proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether another standard cell included at the integrated circuit data processing device design remains to be placed. If all standard cells included at the device design have been placed the flow is complete. If however another standard cell remains to be placed the flow returns to block where that cell is placed at the device design.

The flow proceeds to block where a designation identifying the presence and location of a sensitive feature is added to a symbolic representation such as a LEF view of the standard cell. For example LEF module can provide a designation icon at the LEF view of the standard cell to identify the presence and the location of a sensitive feature at the standard cell. If however the affect of the aggressor was not determined to be significant no designation need be applied. The flow proceeds to block where the operation of the standard cell is characterized based on an assumption that the standard cell will be placed in a context that does not include an aggressor feature. Accordingly subsequent placement of an instantiation of the standard cell can include one or more filler cells placed adjacent to the standard cell so that no aggressor feature can significantly affect the operation of the standard cell. The flow proceeds to block where it is determined if another standard cell remains to be analyzed to determine the presence of a sensitive feature. If another standard cell remains to be characterized the flow returns to block where another standard cell is received for characterization else the flow is complete.

Input output I O adapter is further connected to and controls disk drives printer removable storage devices as well as other standard and proprietary I O devices. User interface adapter can be considered to be a specialized I O adapter. Adapter is connected to a mouse and a keyboard . In addition user interface adapter may be connected to other devices capable of providing various types of user control such as touch screen devices. Communications interface adapter is connected to a bridge such as is associated with a local or a wide area network and a modem . System bus can be connected to various communication devices to access external information. Multimedia controller will generally include a video graphics controller capable of displaying images upon the monitor as well as providing audio to external components not illustrated .

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the disclosure is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

Note that not all of the activities or elements described above in the general description are required that a portion of a specific activity or device may not be required and that one or more further activities may be performed or elements included in addition to those described. Still further the order in which activities are listed are not necessarily the order in which they are performed.

Also the concepts have been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any feature s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature of any or all the claims.

