---

title: Scheduling location update reports of access terminals to an access network within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed to scheduling location update reports of access terminals to an access network within a wireless communications system. The access network acquires a defined location region within a wireless communications system, and determines a location of a given access terminal within the wireless communications system. The access network selects one of a plurality of location update rules for the given access terminal based on a relationship between the defined location region and the determined location, each of the plurality of location update rules specifying different conditions for prompting location update reports from the given access terminal to the access network. The access network informs the given access terminal of the selected location update rule, and the given access terminal sends one or more location update reports to the access network in accordance with the selected location update rule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08391885&OS=08391885&RS=08391885
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08391885
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100316
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 163 276 entitled SCHEDULING LOCATION UPDATE REPORTS OF ACCESS TERMINALS TO AN ACCESS NETWORK WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Mar. 25 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to scheduling location update reports of access terminals to an access network within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments are directed to scheduling location update reports of access terminals to an access network within a wireless communications system. The access network acquires a defined location region within a wireless communications system and determines a location of a given access terminal within the wireless communications system. The access network selects one of a plurality of location update rules for the given access terminal based on a relationship between the defined location region and the determined location each of the plurality of location update rules specifying different conditions for prompting location update reports from the given access terminal to the access network. The access network informs the given access terminal of the selected location update rule and the given access terminal sends one or more location update reports to the access network in accordance with the selected location update rule.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the Background section multicast messaging may be performed in a number of ways. In order to better understand embodiments of the present invention a conventional multicast messaging process will be described with respect to respectively. Then a multicast messaging process wherein a set of prospective sectors which are likely to include one or more multicast members is established before multicast session initiation will be described according to embodiments of the present invention.

After receiving the forwarded multicast message the RAN waits for a next available control channel capsule in . The control channel referred to herein is a downlink control channel which is assigned a different frequency coding and or bandwidth than the broadcast channel BCH . Generally less bandwidth is allocated to the control channel which is conventionally intended to include control messaging only while more bandwidth is allocated to the broadcast channel BCH which is conventionally intended to include data.

Referring to each control channel cycle includes a total of 256 slots. Each control channel cycle includes a synchronous control channel capsule SC an asynchronous control channel capsule AC and a number of sub synchronous control channels SSCs . One SC is regularly or periodically transmitted at a given timeslot for each control channel cycle having a period of 256 slots whereas the AC is transmitted at random or at non synchronous timeslots within the control channel cycle. The SC is first transmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 256 Offset and then retransmitted at a timeslot corresponding to T mod 4 Offset where T denotes a system time and an Offset denotes a time value delayed from a fixed time which are included in the control channel header. Each SC may include a plurality of control channel MAC layer packets whereas each AC includes only one control channel MAC layer packet. As each MPT BS periodically transmits one or more control channel MAC layer packets interference e.g. inter cell interference may occur if each MPT BS transmits at the same time. Accordingly a different offset is applied to the SC for each MPT BS to avoid collisions. The MPT BS may transmit as many as three SSC capsules within one control channel period or 256 slot cycle. Each SSC typically transmits only one control channel MAC layer packet. Assuming an offset value of 2 the SSCs are transmitted at time slots and . Control channel capsules e.g. SCs ACs SSCs etc. are generally well known in the art within BCMCS systems and as such a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

Returning back to in the RAN may wait for either a synchronous control channel capsule SC e.g. timeslot in a next control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 or alternatively a sub synchronous control channel capsule SSC e.g. one of timeslots of the control channel cycle assuming an offset of 2 where the periodic BOM message is scheduled. For example one particular control channel capsule within each control channel cycle may be reserved for a particular BOM since other applications may be attempting to access the control channel and other messages may be scheduled a delay of multiple cycles may be incurred.

In after waiting for the next available SC or SSC the RAN transmits a broadcast overhead message BOM over the air interface to one or more multicast group members e.g. ATs A B C over a large number of sectors of the wireless communication system because the locations of the multicast group members for the multicast session are not precisely known at the RAN . The BOM is a forward link control message defined by EV DO standards. The BOM is used to notify each multicast group member of the BCMCS flows which are currently being carried in a sector. The BOM also provides Interlaced Multiplexed Pair IM Pair information which is information regarding the forward link physical layer timeslots that should be decoded to receive the desired packet flows and information on the number of physical layer slots per broadcast physical layer packet and physical layer rate used to transmit the flow. In the RAN waits a predetermined number of slots e.g. 8 to 16 slots for the BOM to be decoded at the target ATs. After the delay the RAN waits for the BCH slot designated by the decoded BOM . This creates another delay which may be further exacerbated based on the traffic on the broadcast channel BCH . In the RAN transmits the announce message to each multicast group member or target AT which it is serving over the broadcast channel BCH on the designated BCH slot in all possible sectors. Next in each of ATs A B and C that wish to monitor the multicast session may send to the RAN a BCMCSFlowRegistration message as defined by 1x EV DO standards. As will be appreciated the registration requests transmitted in are optional because the individual users of ATs A B and or C may not wish to actually join the multicast session in which case the registration requests would not be transmitted.

As described above with respect to conventional BCMCS multicast messaging typically requires each target AT or multicast group member to decode a broadcast overhead message BOM before a multicast message is transmitted over a broadcast channel BCH to the respective members of the multicast group. This creates delays both for the scheduling of the BOM delays for the decoding and potential subsequent delays for the scheduling the announce message. Also the BOMs and announce messages are transmitted in all possible sectors within the wireless communication system . It will be appreciated however that multicast group members are not necessarily present within each sector. Thus a certain number of transmissions are wasted each time a multicast session is initiated.

Embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described wherein access terminals pre register with the RAN for future multicast sessions. Thereafter the access terminals periodically update their location and or their group membership information such that upon initiation of a given multicast session the RAN has at least some knowledge regarding where the multicast group members for the given multicast session are located. Thus the RAN may reduce the number of transmissions required to establish and or maintain the given multicast session.

In an example the GMN message may be included within a standard BCMCSFlowRegistration message. The BCMCSFlowRegistration message is well known in the art and is defined within 1x EV DO standards. Typically an AT sends a BCMCSFlowRegistration message after receiving a BOM with a register set to prompt a BCMCSFlowRegistration message e.g. a register for dynamic broadcast RFDB field or register for paging RFP field equal to 1 or when the AT enters a new sector and determines no BOMs are transmitted or that any transmitted BOMs do not advertise a multicast session for which the AT is interested. The BCMCSFlowRegistration message includes a list of BCMCSFlowIDs that an AT wishes to monitor. The BCMCSFlowIDs can be either dynamically assigned e.g. by a BCMCS Controller not shown or can be pre configured. If the BCMCSFlowIDs are dynamically assigned by the BCMCS Controller the AT can acquire the BCMCSFlowIDs via a BCMCS flow discovery process before sending the BCMCSFlowRegistration message. On the other hand in another embodiment of the present invention a certain block of BCMCSFlowIDs may be pre configured to be reserved irrespective of whether a multicast session is actually active. In this example each reserved BCMCSFlowID may be mapped to a respective IP Group ID i.e. a multicast IP address and port number pair . In an example the mapping of the reserved BCMCSFlowIDs is pre configured at each multicast group member and at the RAN and or BSN as discussed in greater detail within U.S. application Ser. No. 12 235 450 entitled GENERATING MULTICAST FLOW IDENTIFIERS filed Sep. 22 2008 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Accordingly in this example the BCMCSFlowIDs included within the GMN message of may correspond to one or more of the reserved BCMCSFlowIDs.

In an alternative example the GMN message may be included within a proprietary or non standard message such as for example in a StorageBLOBNotification message on the uplink. In this example the GMN message may include a list of BCMCSFlowIDs. Alternatively the GMN message may include a list of multicast IP addresses and port numbers for the multicast sessions being requested.

While and of are directed to AT power up in an alternative embodiment a supplemental GMN message may be sent to the RAN each time the timer associated with the periodic GMN transmissions expires or the given AT hands off to a new subnet etc.

The RAN receives the GMN message and populates a group member list in . Each group member list entry includes i a list of ATs having sent GMN messages to the RAN AT List Field ii the associated multicast groups for each AT within the group member list Multicast Group Field e.g. stored as a BCMCS flow ID entry of a BCMCSFlowID is reported in stored as a multicast IP address and port number pair if a proprietary message is reported in etc. iii a last known location for each AT Location Field e.g. indicating a sector identification a base station identification etc. and iv a time stamp indicating a time at which the last known location of the AT was reported Time Stamp Field . In an example while not illustrated explicitly in the process of the location e.g. serving sector geographic coordinates etc. of the AT can be ascertained based on a base station or subnet that receives the GMN message from the GMN message itself or from information sent along with the GMN message. An example of a group member list entry is provided below as Table 1 

Thus as shown in the example of Table 1 the given AT is labeled as AT 1 and the given AT is a member of multicast groups T Flow U Flow and V Flow. The last known location of the given AT is within Sector Y of the wireless communication system and the last known location was reported at 7 06 PM Eastern Standard Time EST .

In another example the group member list entries may be grouped based on the multicast group field as provided below as Table 2 

Thus as shown in the example of Table 2 ATs 1 through 4 are registered for multicast group T Flow. The location field and time stamp field have not been included within Table 2 for convenience of illustration as these fields are specific to each of ATs 1 through 4.

It will be appreciated that the group member list entries provided above have been given for example purposes only and other embodiments of the present invention may configure the group member list entry in any well known fashion. For example the Location Field may alternatively store a base station identifier and not a sector identifier. In another example the Location Field may store an identifier identifying a plurality of sectors such as a location area LA identifier where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN or a multicast area MA identifier where each MA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area identified by the RAN solely for a multicasting purpose.

In after updating the group member list based on the GMN message in the RAN determines whether to dynamically set a location update rule or protocol for the AT. The location update rule corresponds to the manner in which the AT schedules the transmission of RouteUpdate messages to the RAN . A RouteUpdate message updates Location Field and Time Stamp Field see above for a particular AT. Generally if the RAN wishes to keep closer track of the locations of multicast group members for a particular multicast group the RAN may set a relatively aggressive location update rule in . Otherwise if the RAN wishes to reduce reverse link traffic the RAN may set a relatively conservative location update rule in . In another alternative example the RAN may set no location update rule and may rely upon a default or manually entered location update rule at the given AT. Examples of location update rules are provided below.

In the given AT establishes the location update rule. For example if the RAN determines not to dynamically set the location update rule in a default location update rule may be established in . Alternatively if the RAN determines to dynamically set the location update rule in the dynamically set location update rule is activated in . In another alternative example the user of the given AT may manually select and enter a custom location update rule.

In an example the location update rule may be a distance based registration DBR protocol such that the given AT sends a RouteUpdate message after traversing a given distance e.g. based on which sector s the given AT has traversed etc. . The given distance may be based on which base stations the given AT has been handed off to which base stations the given AT has been monitoring while in an idle state etc. In another example the location update rule may be to transmit a RouteUpdate message each time the given AT enters a new location area LA where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN .

In another example the location update rule may correspond to any of a number of possible of location update strategies. For example the location update rule may be timer based wherein the given AT maintains a timer with a predetermined or custom period and transmits a RouteUpdate message once for each timer period. In this example lower timer periods corresponds to a more aggressive location update rule for maintaining more up to date location entries for the group member list. However lower timer periods are also associated with higher levels of traffic on the reverse link.

After setting the location update rule in the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls etc. . In the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a RouteUpdate message based on the location update rule established in . If the location update rule requires a RouteUpdate message the RouteUpdate message is sent to the RAN in . In the RAN updates the group member list parameters based on the RouteUpdate message. For example the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT based on the RouteUpdate message. Otherwise if the location update rule indicates that a RouteUpdate message need not be sent the process advances to .

In the given AT determines whether to update its group membership information with a supplemental GMN message. For example if the given AT wishes to join a new multicast group the given AT may determine to send a supplemental GMN message i.e. including the BCMCSFlowID and or multicast IP address and port number pair for the new multicast group . In another example if the given AT wishes to cancel its membership to a multicast group that it has already registered for the given AT may determine to send a supplemental GMN message i.e. omitting the BCMCSFlowID and or multicast IP address and port number pair for the canceled multicast group . Each supplemental GMN message supersedes any previously send GMN message. If the given AT determines not to update its group membership information the process returns to and the given AT resumes normal operation. Otherwise if the given AT determines to update its group membership information the given AT sends the supplemental GMN message in .

Examples of configurations of the supplemental GMN message will now be described in greater detail. In an example the supplemental GMN message may correspond to a BCMCSFlowRegistration message.

Conventionally BCMCSFlowRegistration messages include a listing of BCMCSFlowIDs to which a given AT is presently requesting to register and does not necessarily include a regurgitation or re listing of BCMCSFlowIDs to which the given AT has already monitoring. However according to an embodiment of the present invention the ATs and RAN are configured to interpret omitted BCMCSFlowIDs within a supplemental GMN message as an implicit request to de register the given AT from the multicast group associated with the omitted BCMCS flow.

Accordingly in an example in assume that the given AT determines to de register from one multicast group initially registered for in re sends the same BCMCSFlowRegistration message initially sent in except that the BCMCSFlowID for the multicast group for de registration which was included in the BCMCSFlowRegistration message of is omitted from the new registration message. Further examples of de registration messages are provided below.

In the RAN updates the group member list parameters based on the supplemental GMN message. If the supplemental GMN message requests different multicast groups than the previously sent GMN message the Multicast Group Field which maintains a list of multicast groups to which the given AT belongs is updated to add the multicast groups listed in the supplemental GMN message. Alternatively the Multicast Group Field is updated to remove multicast groups based on the supplemental GMN message if group removal is indicated within the GMN message. As will be appreciated this may necessitate removing previously listed multicast groups adding new multicast groups and or both adding and removing certain multicast groups from the associated multicast group field for the given AT. Further the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT sending the supplemental GMN message.

For example in assume the RAN receives the GMN message or BCMCSFlowRegistration message having an omitted BCMCS flow i.e. the de registration message . The RAN interprets the BCMCSFlowRegistration received at as a request from the given AT to withdraw from the multicast group associated with the BCMCSFlowID and accordingly removes or de registers the given AT from that multicast group.

In a first example assume that the given AT is currently a member of multicast groups with BCMCSFlowIDs of FLOW  FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  e.g. based on an initial GMN message or BCMCSFlowRegistration message sent in and that the given AT has determines in to register for FLOW . In this example the supplemental GMN message sent in may be configured as follows 

Thus as shown above in Example Supplemental GMN Message the supplemental GMN message sent in includes i each multicast group to which the given AT is currently registered i.e. FLOW  FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  and ii each multicast group that the given AT has not yet registered for and which the given AT wishes to register to i.e. FLOW  . The RAN receives the supplemental GMN message in and the RAN i maintains the given AT s registration to BCMCS flows FLOW  FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  and ii registers the given AT to BCMCS flow FLOW .

In a second example assume that the given AT is currently a member of multicast groups with BCMCSFlowIDs of FLOW  FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  e.g. based on an initial GMN message or BCMCSFlowRegistration message sent in and that the given AT has determines in to de register from multicast groups associated with flows FLOW  and FLOW . In this example the supplemental GMN message sent in may be configured as follows 

Thus as shown above in Example Supplemental GMN Message the supplemental GMN message sent in i includes each multicast group to which the given AT is currently registered and is interested in maintaining registration i.e. FLOW  and FLOW  and ii omits each multicast group that the given AT is no longer interested in i.e. FLOW  and FLOW  . The RAN receives the supplemental GMN message in and the RAN i maintains the given AT s registration to BCMCS flows FLOW  and FLOW  and ii de registers the given AT from BCMCS flows FLOW  and FLOW .

In a third example assume that the given AT is currently a member of multicast groups with BCMCSFlowIDs of FLOW  FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  e.g. based on an initial GMN message or BCMCSFlowRegistration message sent in and that the given AT has determines in to de register from multicast groups associated with flows FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  and to register to FLOW . In this example the supplemental GMN message sent in may be configured as follows 

Thus as shown above in Example Supplemental GMN Message the supplemental GMN message sent in i includes each multicast group to which the given AT is currently registered and is interested in maintaining registration i.e. FLOW  and each multicast group to which the given AT is not yet registered for and is requesting registration i.e. FLOW  and ii omits each multicast group that the given AT is no longer interested in i.e. FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  . The RAN receives the supplemental GMN message in and the RAN i maintains the given AT s registration to BCMCS flow FLOW  ii de registers the given AT from BCMCS flows FLOW  FLOW  and FLOW  and iii registers the given AT to BCMCS flow FLOW .

In yet another example if the supplemental GMN message includes no listed multicast groups the supplemental GMN message is interpreted as a request to drop or cancel the given AT from the group member list entirely. This type of GMN message can be referred to as a NULL GMN message. Accordingly if the supplemental GMN message includes no multicast groups in the RAN removes each of the AT List Field the Multicast Group Field the Location Field and the Time Stamp Field for the given AT in . In another example the NULL GMN message can contain a special multicast group ID or a BCMCSFlowID that is reserved for implying deregistration from all groups. In another example the NULL GMN message can be a separate proprietary message and not merely an empty GMN message or BCMCSFlowRegistration message.

As will be appreciated in view of the above description of at any given time the group member list includes information regarding where multicast group members are potentially located before an active multicast session for the multicast group is actually initiated e.g. potentially because the group member list may not necessarily be perfectly accurate .

Further while not illustrated in explicitly the RAN may periodically update the group member list on its own initiative i.e. not in response to RouteUpdate messages and or GMN messages received from one or more ATs . For example if a Location Field for a particular AT becomes stale or exceeds an age threshold the RAN may interpret the stale Location Field as not being up to date and may remove the associated AT from the group member list entirely.

Referring to in the application server issues a request to initiate a multicast flow for a given multicast group. For purposes of example assume the multicast flow corresponds to T Flow as in the Multicast Group Field for each of ATs A through G as in Table 3 above . For example the multicast flow T Flow generated in of may be responsive to a given access terminal s request to speak to the given multicast group not shown . After the application server decides to accept the AT s request the server can generate a multicast flow announcement message to be sent to the group members via IP multicasting. The application server forwards the multicast flow to the BSN in and the BSN forwards the BCMCS flow over the BCA10 connection to the RAN which is responsible for transmitting the multicast messages of the BCMCS flow to the multicast group members via the air interface in one or more sectors in .

In of the RAN determines an initial set of target sectors for an initial cluster . As used herein a target sector is any sector within a wireless communication system having or potentially having at least one multicast group member. As used herein a cluster corresponds to a set of sectors e.g. one or more sectors upon which the BCH carries the BCMCS flow for a particular multicast group. As will be described below in greater detail the cluster includes target sectors for a particular multicast group or BCMCS flow and may include supporting sectors associated with the target sectors as well.

Still referring to of the RAN determines the initial set of target sectors based on the group member list maintained at the RAN e.g. see Table 3 . Accordingly in the example of Table 3 the initial set of target sectors may correspond to sectors T through T. More generally the initial set of target sectors may correspond to all sectors that satisfy a certain proximity metric with respect to any of sectors T through T e.g. because the last known location for an AT maintained at the RAN within a group member list entry is not necessarily correct but is likely to be proximate to the AT s actual current location if the time stamp field is relatively recent .

Next in of the RAN determines an initial set of supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow T Flow. In an example the initial set of supporting sectors may be based on the initial set of target sectors. For example the supporting sectors may correspond to any sector adjacent to one or more target sectors which itself is not a target sector. In another example a supporting sector may correspond to a sector in a given proximity e.g. a distance proximity a signal strength proximity etc. to a target sector without actually being adjacent to the target sector. Alternatively the RAN may decide not to include supporting sectors in the cluster e.g. depending on the BCH transmission format and or whether soft combining is likely to be required by ATs for proper decoding .

In of the RAN determines an initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow. The initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow includes any sector within the wireless system which is neither a target sector as determined in of nor a supporting sector as determined in of .

In of the RAN executes target sector and supporting sector processes at the respective target and supporting sectors. Generally each target sector and each supporting sector carries the BCMCS flow on a downlink broadcast channel BCH and as such the RAN forwards the multicast message to base stations serving target sectors T through T and the supporting sectors. However in order to reduce excessive AT feedback supporting sectors transmit BOMs configured to prompt AT feedback e.g. with RFDB 1 or RFP 1 at each BOM period e.g. to prompt feedback from an AT wandering into a supporting sector whereas target sectors send BOMs to prompt AT feedback less frequently and more frequently send BOMs to suppress AT feedback e.g. with RFDB 0 or RFP 0 e.g. to discourage AT registration when the target sector already carries the BCMCS flow . Non supporting sectors do not carry the BCMCS flow T Flow and the RAN need not forward multicast messages for T Flow to non supporting sectors. A more detailed discussion of target sector behavior supporting sector behavior and non supporting sector behavior may be found within U.S. application Ser. No. 12 212 505 entitled MULTICAST COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Sep. 17 2008 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Next in of the RAN updates the sector assignments of the cluster e.g. adds new target supporting sectors removes target supporting sectors etc. . Again a more detailed description of the sector assignment updates is provided within the above referenced co pending application. Also while not explicitly shown in it will be appreciated that during the active multicast session the RAN continues to maintain update the group member list based on GMN messages and RouteUpdate messages received from multicast group members.

In an example the group member list may be used to provide scheduling instructions from the RAN to multicast group members that instruct the multicast group members with regard to how to respond to interactive multicast messages such as announce messages where an interactive multicast message is a multicast message that requests or requires feedback from one or more multicast group members. For example if a large number of multicast group members are expected to be present within a particular sector and an announce message for a multicast session is sent within the sector a relatively large number of multicast group members may attempt to access the reverse link channel at the same time to respond to the announce message and register for the multicast session. However with information present within the group member list the RAN can schedule a response sequence for the access terminals to respond to the announce message via an access channel message ACM . For example the RAN may send the ACM along with the announce message with the ACM designating a prioritized response order that reserves feedback slots for a number of access terminals based on the group member list. For example the access terminal with the most recent update to its Location Field e.g. updated via a GMN message a RouteUpdate message etc. at the group member list maintained by the RAN may be granted the first response slot by the ACM the AT having the next most recent updated Location Field may be granted the second response slot by the ACM and so on. ACMs and scheduling of interactive multicast message feedback on the reverse link are discussed in more detail within U.S. application Ser. No. 12 212 390 entitled RESPONDING TO AN INTERACTIVE MULTICAST MESSAGE WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM filed Sep. 17 2008 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As discussed above the frequency in which the given AT updates its location message can be based upon its location update rule which can either be conveyed to the AT via the RAN or can be set by the AT itself e.g. see and of . For example the location update rule can be configured to include higher or lower DBR distance thresholds e.g. a lower or higher RouteUpdateRadius value longer or shorter fixed periods between location updates etc. based on tracking requirements of the RAN . In an example if the RAN wishes to track multicast group members belonging to a multicast group with a high degree of precision e.g. to reduce the number of sectors in which an announce message is sent when a call to the multicast group is requested the RAN may convey to one or more ATs belonging to a given multicast group a location update rule requiring the multicast group members to update their respective locations relatively aggressively e.g. after traversing shorter distances such as at each handoff to a new sector or after a shorter period of time if the location updates are timer based such as every 1 minute instead of every 10 minutes etc. . Alternatively the AT can set its own location update rule to a relatively aggressive level based on one or more criteria.

As discussed above the RAN may track the locations of multicast group members so that an ACM can be generated with instructions regarding how to respond to an interactive multicast message e.g. an announce message to avoid congestion on the reverse link access channel in response to the interactive multicast message. ACMs provide instructions with regard to how ATs are to respond to interactive multicast messages and can include APersistence values based on a given number N of ATs belonging to the multicast group expected to be within certain sectors. It will also be appreciated that if multicast group members in large multicast groups are configured to update their locations in a relatively aggressive manner so that the RAN can track their respective locations for this reason i.e. to track a relatively up to date value of N in different sectors the traffic associated with the location updates e.g. Route Update messages can also cause congestion on the reverse link access channel in the wireless communications system .

Accordingly embodiments of the invention which will be described in more detail below are directed to using aggressive location update rules in a selective manner as opposed to simply instructing each multicast group member to update its location in a relatively aggressive or frequent manner throughout the entirety of the wireless communication system . For example a given location region e.g. a subnet a group of sectors multiple subnets a geographic area or range etc. can be defined such that a first location update rule is in effect for multicast group members e.g. of a particular multicast group of all multicast groups etc. within or in proximity to the defined location region and a second location update rule is in effect for multicast group members that are not within or in proximity to the defined location region. For example if the defined location region corresponds to a fixed multicasting cluster which is a group of sectors to which a multicast session is restricted then the RAN s location tracking of multicast group members may be more important in proximity to the defined location region than tracking locations of multicast group members not in proximity to the defined location region and their respective location update rules can be set accordingly. Examples of these embodiments will now be provided with respect to .

Accordingly in A of the RAN defines a given location region for each multicast group to be used to establish location update rules for one or more ATs within the communication system . In an example the given location region defined in A of may correspond to the defined location region for service restriction e.g. a fixed multicasting region . Accordingly the defined location region can correspond to a geographic region or area defined by strict longitude and latitude coordinates a service region or area such as a single sector a group of sectors one or more subnets where each subnet is served by a different RNC etc. Accordingly the defined location region can correspond to a physical area a service area and or a combination thereof in embodiments of the invention. Further while the defined location region is generally described as a contiguous space e.g. a group of adjacent sectors a boxed in geographic region etc. it will be appreciated that the defined location region need not be defined contiguously. For example disparate or non adjacent sectors can form the defined location region even where sectors outside of the defined location region are between the inside sectors. Further it is also possible that multiple location regions can be defined in A such that as will be described in more detail below each defined location region can be associated with its own location update rule as well as being associated with another location update rule or rules reserved for geographic or service areas that do not belong to any defined location region.

In a further example the defining of the location region of A can correspond to acquiring at the RAN the defined location region from the application server . In an alternative example the defined location region of A can be acquired from a network operator at the RAN .

At some point after the defined location region or regions is defined in A assume that a given AT powers on A. After the given AT powers up the given AT sends a Group Membership Notification GMN message to the RAN in A e.g. after locating a pilot signal sent by one or more base stations within the RAN and or performing any other initial power up procedures . The GMN message includes a list of the multicast groups to which the given AT is a current or prospective multicast group member. Along with the GMN message while not shown explicitly within an indication of the given AT s location is also sent to the RAN . The given AT s location can be conveyed based on an identification of a base station serving the given AT in an example. In another example the given AT can determine its location via any well known position determination methodology e.g. GPS and can convey its determined position to the RAN e.g. within the GMN message in a supplemental Route Update message etc. . In respectively it will be appreciated that A may correspond to and A may correspond to . Further while the initial conveyance of the given AT s location is illustrated in as corresponding to or sent along with a GMN message in another embodiment of the invention the GMN message need not be sent so long as the given AT sends an indication of its location to the RAN .

After receiving the GMN message from the given AT the RAN determines the location of the given AT A. As will be appreciated the given AT s location can be determined from information sent within or along with the GMN message itself or based on a current serving base station of the given AT which is known to the RAN . After determining the given AT s location in A the RAN populates or updates a group member list A to include or update an entry corresponding to the given AT as discussed above in detail with respect to of . For example the Location Field of the new or updated group member list entry may correspond to the given AT s location as determined in A. While an explicit location determination step was not illustrated in it will be appreciated that the Location Field updated in of could also be conveyed as described above in A of .

In A the RAN selects a first or initial location update rule for the given AT based upon the given AT s location as determined in A and the defined location region from A. In an example other criteria can be considered in the location update rule selection of A. For example if the defined location region is specific to a particular multicast group the selection of A can be further based on whether the GMN message from A expressed an interest in that multicast group. In a further example time based criteria can be considered and or current system performance statistics e.g. if interference in the system overall is low select a more aggressive location update rule etc. . Thus the location update rule can be determined dynamically based on current system conditions in at least one embodiment. Alternatively the RAN can select between two or more pre defined location update rules and can indicate the selection in a downlink message to the given AT. In another example a hybrid approach that uses both pre defined location update rules and dynamic criteria can be established. For example a pre defined location update rule can be selected and then offset or scaled via a scaling factor that is also selected. Thus a least aggressive pre defined location update rule can be selected for a multicast group member within the defined location region and the selected rule can then be adjusted based on criteria such as whether R ACH interference is above a threshold etc. Thus if the selected pre defined location update rule sets RouteUpdateRadius to a given level denoted as R a scaling factor may change the given level to 1.5 Ror 0.5 R.

For convenience of explanation an example will now be provided with respect to which illustrates a progression of the given AT in a portion of the wireless communication system . Accordingly assume that upon power up in A the given AT is positioned at position 1 within Subnet A of the system . Further assume that the defined location region from A corresponds to Subnet A. Accordingly because the RAN knows that the given AT is within Subnet A and that Subnet A corresponds to the defined location region the RAN selects a location update rule corresponding to the defined location region as the first location update rule in A. In an example the first location update rule can be set to a relatively aggressive level if the defined location region corresponds to a region to which multicasting e.g. for the given AT s interested multicast group s or for an entire type of multicast service is restricted such that the RAN can track multicast group members more precisely within Subnet A then multicast group members that are not within the multicasting region i.e. outside of Subnet A . In an alternative example the reverse can be assumed such that Subnet B corresponds to the defined location region and a less aggressive location update rule e.g. to reduce reverse link access channel traffic is selected in A for the given AT so long as the given AT remains in Subnet A.

After selecting the first location update rule in A the RAN conveys or negotiates the first location update rule with the given AT A. The given AT receives the first location update rule and sets its location update rule to the first location update rule A such that the given AT will send location updates in accordance with the first location update rule until a new location update rule is sent to the given AT.

After setting the location update rule in A the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls etc. A. In A the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a RouteUpdate message based on the first location update rule established in A. If the first location update rule indicates that a RouteUpdate message need not be sent the process returns to A. For example if the given AT has not moved a threshold distance or a threshold amount of time since a previous location update has not elapsed e.g. where the thresholds are based on the first location update rule the given AT determines not to update its location in A. In an alternative example it will be appreciated that if the given AT maintains an active traffic channel such that the RAN is already aware of its serving sector s the given AT need not update its location if location at the service level is sufficient to satisfy the given AT s current location update rule. Otherwise if the first location update rule requires a RouteUpdate message the RouteUpdate message is sent to the RAN in A. In A the RAN determines the given AT s location based on the RouteUpdate message and the RAN also updates the group member list parameters based on the RouteUpdate message A. For example in A the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT based on the RouteUpdate message.

Referring to in B the RAN determines whether to update or replace the first location update rule for the given AT. For example in B if the given AT s relationship to the defined location region from A has not changed e.g. the given AT has either remained inside or outside of the defined location region then the process returns to A of and no location update rule is sent to replace the first location update rule. In another example referring to assume that the first location update rule was sent to the given AT when the given AT was determined by the RAN to be at position 1 and the given AT has now reported its location to be at position 2. In other words the given AT has moved from Subnet A to Subnet B. In this example if it is further assumed that the defined location region corresponds to Subnet A and does not include Subnet B then the RAN determines to update the given AT s location update rule in B.

Accordingly if the RAN determines to update or replace the first location update rule in B the RAN selects a second location update rule for the given AT based upon the given AT s location as determined in A e.g. the last known location of the given AT and the defined location region from A. In an example other criteria can be considered in the location update rule selection of B as described above with respect to A. For example if multicast service is restricted to Subnet A in and the given AT has moved from position 1 within Subnet A to position 2 within Subnet B the selected second location update rule can be set to a less aggressive setting than the first location update rule so that the given AT reports its location less frequently thereby reducing traffic on the reverse link access channel which carries the RouteUpdate messages.

In an alternative example instead of a RouteUpdate message that updates the given AT s location in A assume that in A the given AT sends e.g. in place of or in addition to the RouteUpdate message a supplemental GMN message includes a modified list of the multicast groups to which the given AT is a current or prospective multicast group member such that the RAN updates the given AT s membership associations in the group member list in A. In this case the determination and selection of B and B respectively can be based at least in part on the membership changes of the given AT as conveyed by the supplemental GMN message. For example if the given AT de registers from a group via the supplemental GMN message of A to which the given AT previously registered to via the GMN message from A and the first location update rule is set to the more aggressive setting because the given AT is within a region supporting multicast service the second location update rule can be selected as a less aggressive setting irrespective of whether the given AT remains within the region supporting multicast service. In other words because the given AT is no longer within the multicast group the given AT will not send location updates frequently or aggressively even if the given AT is within a region that supported multicast service for the previously registered multicast group.

After selecting the second location update rule in B the RAN conveys or negotiates the second location update rule with the given AT B. The given AT receives the second location update rule and sets its location update rule to the second location update rule B such that the given AT will send location updates in accordance with the second location update rule until a new location update rule is sent to the given AT.

After setting the location update rule in B the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls etc. B. In B the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a RouteUpdate message based on the second location update rule established in B. If the second location update rule indicates that a RouteUpdate message need not be sent the process returns to B. Otherwise if the second location update rule requires a RouteUpdate message the RouteUpdate message is sent to the RAN in B. In B the RAN determines the given AT s location based on the RouteUpdate message and the RAN also updates the group member list parameters based on the RouteUpdate message B. For example in B the RAN updates the Location Field and Time Stamp Field of the group member list for the given AT based on the RouteUpdate message.

While not shown in explicitly after B the process can return to B and the RAN can again evaluate whether to replace or update the second location update rule for the given AT e.g. if the given AT moves back to Subnet A etc. . If the RAN determines not to update the second location update rule for the given AT the process returns to B and the given AT resumes normal operation. Otherwise the process advances again to B and another location update rule is selected and so on.

In a further example while the defined location region is illustrated in as being established at the RAN it will be appreciated that in other embodiments of the invention this location region can be defined by a network operator at the application server and then transferred to the RAN . In this example the application server e.g. a multicast or PTT server can convey defined location regions and their associated location update rules to the RAN on a per service basis e.g. for all types of service supported by the application server for particular types of service supported by the application server such as group communication sessions via IP unicast protocols multicast protocols etc. a per group basis e.g. such that the defined location region and its associated location update rules affects all multicast groups only certain multicast groups etc. or a per user basis e.g. such that the defined location region and its associated location update rules are user specific and is not necessarily in effect all multicast group members .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

