---

title: Bio-photonic feedback control software and database
abstract: A process, apparatus, and method for computerized detection, tracking, and feedback control of nutritional supplements in an animal, including humans relies on Raman scattering effects on skin or other tissues to determine the content of carotenoids or other nutrients as evidenced in that skin. Serum levels of nutrients may vary dramatically with time, but skin tissues may average such nutrition over time. Skin and other tissues may be scanned with light to produce accurate measurements of carotenoids or other nutrients accumulated in the skin based on the Raman scattering affect of those nutrients in the skin. A score can be derived from a properly calibrated bio-photonic scanner to reflect an averaged effective uptake of the detected nutrient (e.g. such as the carotenoid example). This feedback control is thus much more immediate than any anecdotal, long-term, report of general well being, which would vary so much between individuals as to be nearly impossible to ascertain on an individual level, and difficult, invasive, and expensive to determine individually in a conventional clinical procedure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117044&OS=08117044&RS=08117044
owner: NSE Products, Inc.
number: 08117044
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101202
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 782 733 filed Feb. 19 2004 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 448 996 entitled SEAMLESS GLOBAL COMPENSATION SYSTEM filed Feb. 20 2003 the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

This invention relates to digital computers and photonic scanners and more particularly to unique apparatus and methods for timely computerized detection tracking and feedback control of the biological uptake of targeted nutrients.

The world of electronics and optical measurement systems is broad varied and has a long colorful history. Systems for detection of optics by virtue of radar signatures infrared signatures and other spectral signatures have been used for decades. Accordingly methods of detection and signal processing are plentiful.

In ancient times nutrition and the art or science of the use of various herbs and naturally occurring compositions has been useful to the human race. In modern times nutrition has received much public exposure as a science. The public is educated through schools advertising publications government programs and the like in order to improve nutritional habits. The field of pharmaceuticals typically perceived to be either synthetic or processed drugs and medicaments has blended with nutritional sciences and the art or science of herbal treatments and remedies. Nutriceuticals are products that fall in the area of nutritional and herbal materials that may provide additional remedial benefits.

Multi level marketing has been a method of direct sale of products for many years. Multi level marketing is built upon incentive programs whereby rewards are allocated to individuals and entities for the sale of product and the management of organizations. Typically all proceeds derived from product sales are distributed according to an organizational genealogy relating various sales persons or dealers to managers and directors responsible for recruiting training motivating supplying and so forth the front line dealers. Compensation systems are themselves an art form of sorts. Moreover management systems in organizations of all types have developed into various art forms sciences and the like depending on one s view point and approach.

In the area of optics and detectors U.S. Pat. No. 6 205 354 B1 issued Mar. 20 2001 to Gellerman et. al. is directed to a method and apparatus for non evasive measurement of carotenoids and related chemical substances and biological tissue. This patent is incorporated herein by reference. The method and apparatus of Gellerman et al. provide a non invasive rapid accurate and safe determination of carotenoid levels which in turn can provide diagnostic information regarding risk of disease or markers for conditions such as carotenoids or other antioxidant compounds. The method and apparatus utilize the technic of Resonance Raman Spectroscopy to measure the levels of carotenoids and similar substances in tissue.

In this technique laser light is directed upon an area of tissue of interest. A small fraction of the scattered light is scattered inelastically producing the carotenoid Raman signal which is at a different frequency than the incident laser light. The Raman signal is collected filtered and measured. The resulting Raman signal can be analyzed such that the background fluorescent signal is subtracted and the results displayed and compared with known calibration standards.

Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 5 873 831 issued Feb. 23 1999 to Bernstein et. al. is directed to a method and system for measurement of macular carotenoid levels. This system method and apparatus provide for the determination of macular carotenoid levels. The invention measures the levels of macular carotenoid pigments as well as other retinal materials. Monochromatic laser light is projected onto a retina preferably in the macular area. A very sensitive detection system then takes the light scattered on the retina. Raman scattered light is selected and routed to a detection system where the results are calibrated into actual standards for the particular retinal material being tested.

In the nutritional supplement area much has been stated in technical academic trade and consumer literature regarding antioxidants. Carotenoids are considered to be an antioxidant. Many herbs foods and processed compositions thereof provide antioxidants including carotenoids.

In the area of multi level marketing U.S. Pat. No. 6 421 648 B1 issued Jul. 16 2002 to Gagnon et. al. is directed to a data processing system for the management of a differential continuous compensation claim. This patent identifies a data processing system provided for monitoring and recording information flow and data and making calculations necessary for maintaining a differential continuous compensation plan identified therein.

Likewise U.S. Pat. No. 6 415 265 B1 issued Jul. 2 2002 to Shell et. al. along with its sibling U.S. Pat. No. 6 408 281 B1 and parent U.S. Pat. No. 6 134 533 are directed to a multi level marketing computer network server to integrate collection of a payment via the network and automatically distribute product with the calculation of commissions via the network.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 734 838 issued Mar. 31 1998 to Robinson et. al. is directed to a database computing architecture for managing an incentive award program and checking float of funds at the time of purchase. U.S. Pat. No. 5 537 314 issued Jul. 16 1996 to Kanter is directed to a referral recognition system for an incentive award system. U.S. Pat. No. 5 202 826 issued Apr. 13 1993 to McCarthy is directed to a centralized consumer cash accumulation system for multiple merchants wherein credit value may be based upon predetermined incentives associated with a transaction such as coupons rebates discounts credit rate or a combination thereof.

Individuals often consult a doctor. The medical world is often reputed to be directed toward management by exception. That is medical professionals are typically consulted for and typically respond to either acute or chronic symptoms of imbalance trauma stress or ill condition. The nutritional science community is directed toward proper nutrition and maintenance of good health. Often a non medical health or nutrition inventory is simply not considered or done. It may be useful to a healthy individual to determine a status of antioxidants or carotenoid concentrations in the body.

Accordingly it would be an advance in the art to provide a system for timely non medical diagnostic measurements of antioxidants such as carotenoid content as represented by the carotenoid content in skin. It would be a further advance in the art to couple this evaluation process with availability of nutritional supplements recognized for their antioxidant content such as carotenoids.

It would be yet a further advance in the art to combine such a system with a marketing management and incentive system to compensate those who perform such inventories on healthy subjects and those who market nutritional supplements associated with or directed to increasing amounts of targeted nutritional constituents e.g. antioxidants carotenoids minerals etc. while managing the data relating the technological devices the operators the subjects the consumers and the marketing organizations.

Accordingly a method and apparatus in accordance with the present invention provide an integration of a technological device in accordance with the work of Gellerman et al. applied to a process of inventory scanning of individuals for particular content of selected nutritional elements in the skin. One such nutritional element is the class of substances characterized as antioxidants and more particularly a class of substances classified as carotenoids.

In certain embodiments a system and method in accordance with the invention may provide computer code for communication between various computer systems. The system may include a laser illumination device and appropriate detection system each including sufficient controller capacity for execution of their functions and connected to other computational capacity to process the signals of the detector. Accordingly such a system make take data remove error compensate for background noise and ultimately fit the data to a curve or histogram providing an intensity value corresponding to a range of optical or other frequencies.

A computation system may be programmed to provide controls for the laser scanner and detection system along with software to control the prompting and instruction of an operator thus minimizing the skill level required of an operator. That is much instrumentation is created strictly for the use of those highly skilled in the science to which it pertains. Moreover much instrumentation is sufficiently complex with only rudimentary controls thus requiring a high level of skill and knowledge of both the science and the hardware in order to conduct operations. In a method and apparatus in accordance with the invention a user interface programmed into a computer connected to a laser scanner may provide for simplified operation by a non professional and non technical operator.

Accordingly the scanner takes data provided to the master or host computer and processes that data to determine the intensity of a Raman Scattering response of the skin of a subject as a result of laser illumination in a particular spectral band. The computer thus processes the data and provides a display to a user or operator regarding the content of the skin of a subject. For example the carotenoid level may be identified directly or identified in a relative sense as a score that may be compared with previous and subsequent scanning results.

The master computer may log data and upload it to a centrally based computer operated by an owner or affiliated company or other entity. For example over a direct link or a world wide web link the master computer may upload data regarding one or more scanning sessions to the central computer. Thus many subjects over long periods of time may be tracked and recorded in a database.

Meanwhile a system of method in accordance with the invention may provide for computer programs comprising executables and operational data for tracking and allocating compensation transfers between licensors of technology operators of scanning devices used for taking inventory sellers of nutritional supplements and management organizations and individuals responsible for distributing nutritional supplements and motivating or training sales forces.

The central computing facility may track subjects operators sellers of nutritional supplements organizational entities and individuals managing training and distributing to supplement dealers in order to allocate commissions for tasks performed thereby. Likewise where technology such as a scanning device may be leased or licensed royalties payable to owners of intellectual property may be calculated by a central computing facility. Likewise systems may be programmed to allocate financial distributions to all entities involved. They may provide data for computers to actually apply credits or print checks compensating individual entities having an association with the scanning process the sales process the manufacturing process the distribution process and so forth associated with a cycle of scanning and delivering supplements.

In one embodiment a system and method in accordance with the invention may provide a scanner conducting multiple dozens of scans over some period of time. For example in one embodiment thirty scans of a subject may occur in approximately twenty seconds. Many data points may be collected. In one embodiment 2 048 data points are collected with each scan for reading. Thus thirty scans in approximately twenty seconds each with 2 048 data points may represent various pixels on a detector. That is a detector may detect a light intensity for each of multiple frequencies received. In one embodiment a charge coupled device provides multiple pixels each identified with a specific frequency and each capable of integrating an intensity during a particular scan. Thus the intensity of photons in a pixel identify the intensity at the subject frequency corresponding to the pixel.

Relying on Raman Scattering a frequency shift occurs between the input signal illuminating the skin of a subject consumer resulting in an output back to a detector at a different end characteristic frequency. The curve fit of the overall detection spectrum can be processed to identify the intensity over the frequency range corresponding to carotenoid content of the user. In certain embodiments noise may be calibrated out by comparing illuminations of neutral opaque materials and materials of known carotenoid content as well as unilluminated backgrounds in order to adjust the device field.

In certain embodiments the scanner self controls itself at some level of hardware. Typically the hardware level is quite low and the computational requirement is minimal for the self control of a laser illumination source and a detector such as a charged coupled device CCD . A scanner containing a laser illumination source and a detector with the basic level of controls may connect to additional computation facility in another digital computer such as a laptop personal digital assistant desktop computer or the like. In the main computer or master computer to which the detector may connect a dynamic link library may contain the processing applications required in order to take process log and manage data. Meanwhile other applications may connect through API application programming interfaces in order to access library routines objects or other executables.

Processing may include averaging multiple scan intensities conducting dark scans to measure environmental noise calibrating the reading of neutral background and a pre determined level of detectable carotenoids in a calibration sample compensating for temperature or other environmental factors and the like.

The master computer may also include a user interface to provide prompting of a user operator in scanning a subject. Likewise user interface may provide for prompts in database intake templates to obtain subject data demographic information environmental information or any other data that may be useful either to the scanner or to the organization that may ultimately interact with the subject in marketing and tracking delivery of nutritional supplements. The user interface may provide a variety of processes for security authorization and other controls in order to ensure proper and authorized usage reporting and other compliance.

In one embodiment a scanner may be operated by an operator who provides to a subject consumer visitor customer etc. a result representing a score corresponding to antioxidant content such as carotenoid content in the skin of the subject. A consumer may pay to have a scan conducted. That is individuals have their blood pressure checked at clinics stores and various other locations. Similarly a consumer may go to a nutrition supplement store and have a carotenoid scan conducted.

In some embodiments of an apparatus and method in accordance with the invention a purveyor of nutritional supplements may provide a certificate such as a gift certificate to a consumer or prospective customer which certificate may be redeemed with any one of members of a network of people who operate scanners. Accordingly the certificate once redeemed results in a certificate number or other identification corresponding to the operator and scanning machine that conducted the scan. Likewise the certificate may have already been identified with the purveyor of nutritional supplements. By conducting intake questioning of the subject the scanning operator can also link to the scan and certify the identification of the subject.

Subsequently if and when a subject determines to purchase nutritional supplement products a database system provided with the identification and information corresponding to the scanner the operator the certificate and the subject may link a seller of product. Accordingly a database system may contain enough information for processing of compensation systems for all parties and devices involved in the scanning motivation and delivery corresponding to the traditional supplements purchased by a customer.

Accordingly each consumer customer may be tracked and further motivated by subsequent delivery of certificates valid for subsequent scanning in order to monitor skin carotenoid content in accordance with on going ingestion of nutritional supplements directed thereto.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of systems and methods in accordance with the present invention as represented in is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of certain examples of presently contemplated embodiments in accordance with the invention. The presently described embodiments will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules executables systems servers and the like in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example modules may be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module. For example a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices.

Modules may also be implemented in hardware as electronic circuits comprising custom VLSI circuitry off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

Referring to an apparatus may implement the invention on one or more nodes client computer containing a processor CPU . All components may exist in a single node or may exist in multiple nodes remote from one another. The CPU may be operably connected to a memory device . A memory device may include one or more devices such as a hard drive or other non volatile storage device a read only memory ROM and a random access and usually volatile memory RAM or operational memory .

The apparatus may include an input device for receiving inputs from a user or from another device. Similarly an output device may be provided within the node or accessible within the apparatus . A network card interface card or port may be provided for connecting to outside devices such as the network .

Internally a bus or plurality of buses may operably interconnect the processor memory devices input devices output devices network card and port . The bus may be thought of as a data carrier. As such the bus may be embodied in numerous configurations. Wire fiber optic line wireless electromagnetic communications by visible light infrared and radio frequencies may likewise be implemented as appropriate for the bus and the network .

Input devices may include one or more physical embodiments. For example a keyboard may be used for interaction with the user as may a mouse or stylus pad . A touch screen a telephone or simply a telecommunications line may be used for communication with other devices with a user or the like. Similarly a scanner may be used to receive graphical inputs which may or may not be translated to other formats. The hard drive or other memory device may be used as an input device whether resident within the node or some other node e.g. etc. on the network or from another network .

Output devices may likewise include one or more physical hardware units. For example in general the port may be used to accept inputs into and send outputs from the node . Nevertheless a monitor may provide outputs to a user for feedback during a process or for assisting two way communication between the processor and a user. A printer a hard drive or other device may be used for outputting information as output devices .

In general a network to which a node connects may in turn be connected through a router to another network . In general two nodes may be on a network adjoining networks or may be separated by multiple routers and multiple networks as individual nodes on an internetwork. The individual nodes e.g. may have various communication capabilities.

In certain embodiments a minimum of logical capability may be available in any node . Note that any of the individual nodes may be referred to as may all together as a node or a node . Each may contain a processor with more or less of the other components .

A network may include one or more servers . Servers may be used to manage store communicate transfer access update and the like any practical number of files databases or the like for other nodes on a network . Typically a server may be accessed by all nodes on a network . Nevertheless other special functions including communications applications directory services and the like may be implemented by an individual server or multiple servers .

In general a node may need to communicate over a network with a server a router or nodes . Similarly a node may need to communicate over another network in an internetwork connection with some remote node . Likewise individual components may need to communicate data with one another. A communication link may exist in general between any pair of devices.

Referring to in one embodiment a system or a seamless global compensation system may include various elements of hardware and software in order to implement integration of marketing tracking of management structures tracking and execution of compensation consumer testing and motivation allocation and tracking of royalty payments and delivery of nutritional supplements. In one embodiment a system may include hardware and software suitable to connect to the Internet . For example an Internet service provider may connect through an Internet service provider ISP interface to the system . Alternatively or in addition a telecommunications interface may connect to a conventional telecommunications network . In either event or both the system provides for communication with a network of customers operators dealers managers suppliers and so forth.

In certain embodiments the system may rely on a database system . The database system may be configured to operate in any of a host of modes. For example object oriented databases may embed both executables and attributes operational data into a single object associated with a particular function purpose entity or the like. Similarly relational databases may operate by virtue of tables populated and managed by independent executables or database engines. Other applicable logical constructs may be used instead.

Regardless of whether a database engine is independent from database records or embedded such that the database engine and database records are implemented with individual objects as executables and attributes respectively is not determinative. The database system needs to provide the functionality of a database engine capable of moving data in and out of database records and providing for searching indexing and so forth of the database records by whatever technological mechanism provides suitable functionality. Thus the specific architecture of the database system may be selected in order to provide desired functionality in view of available technology and the costs of creation and maintenance.

In certain embodiments a server may be programmed in software hardware or both to handle uploaded data files received from operators operating in accordance with the invention. For example data files to be received for processing or for inclusion directly into the database may be uploaded from the Internet or from a telecommunications network from other users customers dealers operators etc. into the server .

Software updates may be needed for interacting with the system or for software for operating a scanner see scanner for example . A server may provide software updates to be downloaded to those in need such as customers operators especially dealers or the like for whom software may be available. Typically software updates may be provided by the server to operators in order to provide the most recent operating characteristics for the scanner .

In certain presently contemplated embodiments an authorization server may manage and provide authorizations to operators in order to properly conduct scans using the scanner . That is for example the intellectual property associated with the scanner is the subject of various patents licenses ownership and the like. Accordingly several mechanisms may be implemented in order to obtain financial returns on the efficacious use of a scanner . For example if royalties are to be provided on the basis of use of a scanner then the authorization server may allocate track and otherwise control use in order that royalties may be based upon use.

On the other hand if machines are sold then royalties may be paid based on the sale price of a scanner . Thus an authorization server may be tasked with responsibilities for allocating authorization on an ongoing or on a specific incident basis. Depending on the architecture selected the servers may all be connected to the database system . In an alternative embodiment the data files server may be connected to the database system and may communicate with the authorization server in order to properly perform the controlling functions thereof. Similarly the software update server may stand independently or may be connected to other modules or elements of the system in order to integrate the providing tracking and accounting for various services.

In certain embodiments a certificate distribution system may be configured in one of many ways. For example the system may actually be another server . In alternative embodiments the system may be a standalone hardware system. In certain embodiments the certificate distribution system may simply be embodied in certain executables that coordinate with or are incorporated within the authorization server . In other embodiments a certain security process may be embodied to control a certificate distribution system as a part of the database itself.

In one presently contemplated embodiment the certificate distribution system may be embodied in the server or processor that connects to the server in order that the server may then interact with an operator to provide all of the necessary information and collect all of the appropriate data with respect to the operator.

Similarly the server may connect to the authorization server with the authorization server providing the gate keeping function and serving to an operator with the necessary authorization in exchange for the files to be uploaded to the server . Thus a variety of connection and control schemes may be implemented in order to effect each of the functions of serving updated software to an operator uploading files from an operator or more properly from the computer thereof serving authorizations to an operator and the computer of an operator and distributing certificates for redemption by subjects who provide them to an operator in return for the scanning service.

In one presently contemplated environment the server may be regarded as the web server and may receive information provide authorizations and forward to the database from the server the files uploaded to the server by the computer and operator. Nevertheless regardless of the particular hardware and software that controls or executes the particular function the database may operate in accordance with an enterprise resource planning system . The planning system may incorporate the software data or both that allocates manages tracks and accounts for the resources of the enterprise served by the system .

For example lease payments on hardware commissions for sales economic distributions to licensors owning property that is licensed authorization of operation of scanners within regions geographical areas market segments and the like and so forth may all be considered resources. Likewise financial streams are also resources. Accordingly the enterprise resource planning system may contain or create the plan formula or the control also for the allocation of resources in a system. Accordingly the system may provide to the database system periodic updates of the plan incorporated therein.

Similarly a royalty module may be provided as an executable system of objects a server or the like that provides for royalty controls and data with respect to licensed technology. For example patented scanners may derive royalties in accordance with the royalty schedule provided by contained in stored by created by enforced by or delivered by the royalty module .

Similarly a commission system may contain create store generate allocate control deliver or enforce a schedule of commissions bonuses and other financial or other remunerations to entities involved in the enterprise. For example operators in redeeming certificates may obtain rights to financial compensation. Similarly sales of product result in compensation to the sales people managers recruiters and others who may be involved in the marketing enterprise. Thus the enterprise resource planning system the royalty module and the commission system provide the functionality to allocate financial and other resources among the entities that may be involved in the enterprise. Similarly the authorization server the certificate distribution system as well as the uploaded data files server and the software updates handle the information data resources flowing into and out of the system .

In certain embodiments a dealer portal may include a volumes and genealogy module . The volumes and genealogy module is responsible for publishing for the benefit of dealers marketing products as well as others who may have a need and right to know the allocations of the volumes of sales however represented. Likewise the genealogy portion of the volumes and genealogy module provides the information regarding the relationships between networks of dealers operators and the like.

Accordingly the genealogy of a multi level marketing organization may be published for review of those who have responsibility or relationships with the organization and individuals. Similarly the sales volumes of an individual dealer or individual manager and the portion of the network for which any individual or organization may have responsibility may be made available in order that current useful appropriate information be made available for management and accounting purposes. In certain embodiments the dealer portal may be embodied in a web server as software hardware or both within the system . In certain embodiments the entire system may be hosted on a single computer wherein each module or element is simply a programmed functionality such as a software application.

The consumer portal may likewise publish web pages e.g. for consumers. That is the consumer portal may allow a consumer to track purchases scanning data from various inventories executed by a scanner product information dealer contact information and so forth. A consumer portal may be available to all consumers in general specific consumers having authorization or a combination thereof as allocated by software security rights and so forth.

In certain embodiments a modem server may provide a bank of modems for access by computers connecting through a telecommunications network . Accordingly a modem server may be operable within the system through the telecommunication or wide area network interface .

Referring to one embodiment of the system may include a user interface host connecting over a telecommunications network to a telecommunications interface . In some embodiments the interface may be referred to as a wide area network WAN interface . Accordingly the user interface may be a computer such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA or other processor. In certain presently contemplated embodiments the user interface may be a portable digital computer dedicated to the control and operation of the scanner .

The scanner may be configured in accordance with the technology in U.S. Pat. No. 6 205 354 to Gellerman et. al. incorporated herein by reference. The scanner directs a radiation beam in a suitable spectrum onto a subject . A subject may be for example the skin of a hand or arm of a prospective consumer. Due to Raman Scattering a shifted wavelength of light is returned from the input spectrum as a beam . The beam is accordingly detected by the scanner and the data from the detector is processed accordingly as discussed herein below.

In the illustrated embodiment of a user interface host connects by a telecommunication interface directly to the system . Thus in this embodiment the information provided by the scanner to the host is received by the system over a direct line rather than over a less secure Internet .

Meanwhile a consumer computer may connect to the Internet in order to access from the system the consumer portal . For example the system may engage through an Internet service provider to publish web pages over a consumer portal on the Internet . These web pages may be accessed by a consumer through the consumer s computer .

Similarly a dealer computer in possession of a dealer in nutritional supplements for example can connect to the Internet in order to access a dealer portal . The dealer portal may provide to the dealer computer the volumes and genealogy programs or the volumes of genealogy data to which the dealer is entitled. Similarly in the web pages that the dealer should see may be published over the Internet as part of the dealer portal accessible to the dealer computer .

In the illustrated embodiment of the system may be configured with any connection scheme described with respect to . Nevertheless for the sake of illustration the illustration of shows the database as a centerpiece of the system receiving and exchanging information with the enterprise resource planning system and the royalty system . Similarly the database exchanges information with the commission system and the consumer portal . Intervening applications or connections may be implemented as appropriate.

In the illustrated embodiment the dealer portal may have access to the commission system in order to publish to authorized dealers the information for which those dealers are authorized. Some methods of security may be implemented in a typical system in order to provide secure access by only those entitled to receive it.

Similarly the authorization server may be connected over a line to the telecommunication interface . Similarly the uploaded data server may be connected over a line to the telecommunication interface . Thus in the illustrated embodiment representing one option the authorization server is connected to exchange information with the certificate distribution server as well as with the uploaded data files server .

In this illustrated embodiment the authorization server connects to the database and the certificate distribution server and the uploaded data server do not. Nevertheless depending on the allocation of responsibilities between the database engine and the authorization server as well as the other servers a suitable connection scheme and management scheme may be used to optimize the flow of data the processing thereof and the serving of appropriate information.

In the illustrated embodiment the modem server is directly connected by the line C to the telecommunication interface . In some embodiments a modem server may operate as a telecommunication interface providing a bank of modems. Calls through multiple lines offer access to a variety of user interface hosts computers .

Referring to in an alternative embodiment the system may connect strictly through the Internet . That is consumer computers and dealer computers may access the Internet in order to obtain access to the respective portals of the system . In yet another alternative embodiment the consumer computer and the dealer computer may either one or both be connected through the telecommunication interface to the system . However with the ubiquitous presence of the Internet along with the ability to cache web pages locally certain efficiencies accrue to publication of web pages by the system over the Internet for the benefit of consumer computers and dealer computers .

In the illustrated embodiment of the user interface host connects to the system through the Internet . In this embodiment the system may still host physically the information of the dealer portal and the consumer portal within the physical hardware at a central location of a system . The user interface host thus connects to deliver data from the scanner to the system through the Internet . In general the user interface host may be a general purpose digital computer.

In other embodiments the user interface host may be a special purpose computer. It may be programmed specifically to do only the functions allocated to it and to be disabled from performing other functions. In this way the host may become a special purpose digital computer of limited capacity for purposes of security control license requirements or the like.

Referring to in yet another alternative embodiment the system may connect through a telecommunication interface to one or more user interface hosts supporting a scanner for scanning a subject . By the same token the user interface host may connect through the Internet and an ISP in order to access the system . Many consider the Internet absent appropriate measures to be less secure than a direct line . Thus in order obtain equivalent security connecting through the Internet may require additional software signatures and the like.

For simplicity many prefer the direct dial system through a dedicated telecommunications line to the telecommunication interface . Nevertheless connecting through the Internet as illustrated for the user interface host is nevertheless a tractable option. In the illustrated embodiment the consumer portal and the dealer portal may actually be connected to the Internet at a location different from the majority of the hardware software or both of the system . In this embodiment the dealer portal and consumer portal may actually be mere cache images published to local servers in order to minimize the cost complexity time and unreliability that may otherwise be encountered with global connections.

Thus the dealer portal and consumer portal may actually be caches of identical or caches of a portion of another portal actually physically located within the system . Again not illustrated here is the option wherein either the consumer computer the dealer computer or both connect through the telecommunication interface in order to access the embedded dealer portal or consumer portal of the system as illustrated in .

Referring to a process for implementing certificates may provide a mechanism for compensation to dealers operators of scanners and others involved in the enterprise of taking inventories of the constitution of the skin of subject potential consumers consumers etc. . The invention may provide motivation for the purchase of appropriate nutritional supplements. Sellers dealers of the supplements the managers of dealers the inventors of the scanner and the suppliers of the nutritional supplements and so forth may benefit by providing certifications. A certificate may be implemented in order to reallocate the cost of operating the scanner .

For example a subject may desire to have a scan conducted in order to determine the antioxidant or carotenoid content of one s skin. On the other hand a dealer may be motivated to pay for the cost of a scan in the hope of or out of the proceeds of a sale of nutritional supplements calculated to increase the antioxidant or carotenoid content of the subject s skin. Accordingly a certificate may be purchased by a dealer. Likewise certificates may be purchased by an operator of a scanner . Likewise certificates may be produced by a manufacturer supplier or other purveyor of nutritional supplements as a motivation of the marketing chain.

Accordingly a party having the resources and control or simply the authorization or contractual opportunity to pay an operator of a scanner may generate a certificate. According to any desired scheme whether for direct cash payment as a motivation for sales as a reward as a stimulant to re purchase as a reward for sales volumes as a part of compensation or otherwise one may distribute certificates to consumers dealers managers operators or the like.

In one embodiment a supplier of nutritional supplements may generate certificates. The generator supplier will compensate an operator of a scanner according to the number of those certificates that are redeemed by the operator and submitted back to the supplier. In another embodiment an operator may purchase certificates as a mechanism for distribution . The operator may sell them directly to subjects as a product in and of themselves.

Similarly a dealer may purchase certificates in order to seed the market knowing that some number of those certificates will result in scans that result in sales of nutritional supplements. Thus by any and all appropriate methods distribution of certificates ultimately results in redeeming those certificates.

When a certificate is redeemed a subject may provide certain subject data relating thereto. For example at the time of redemption the certificate number may be provided. The certificate number allows for linking together a subject and the scanner or operator thereof that takes the scan as well as the distribution that obtained the certificate originally. Similarly a subject may provide demographic data that can be useful in targeting marketing tracking trends and observing the ultimate influence of nutritional supplements on populations and individuals. Likewise identification data may be provided by a subject in order to positively identify a particular subject .

In certain embodiments providing subject data may be more or less intrusive. That is the least intrusive collection might be some minimum amount of identification data associated with a certificate number. In other embodiments long questionnaires with detailed data may be provided. In some embodiments part of the purpose of motivation provided by a certificate may be the motivation to provide the desired data. In other embodiments the motivation to be provided by the certificate may reside more with an interest in one s personal score related antioxidant e.g. carotenoid to content of the skin.

Thus at redemption a scanner operator may conduct a scan of a subject person . After appropriate processing of the information by the host computer an output or receipt of results by a user provides a number. The number or score corresponds to the subject s carotenoid content in the skin. The output may simply be a number to be compared with previous or subsequent scans of the same subject . In alternative embodiments the output may provide comparisons between a population at large a world population a comparative demographic population or the like. Accordingly the output may provide motivation to a subject to use nutritional supplements in order to effect the values of the output .

Ultimately over a long or short period of time the output may result in a motivation to place an order. Typically and as shown in brackets as an option placement may be that of a recurring order. That is a subject may purchase a single order of product or may purchase a subscription for continuing delivery of product on a particular schedule.

Accordingly upon placement of an order for a delivery or a subscription for delivery of a product the process may assign an identification to a user. Likewise the system or process may obtain input of information related to the subject . At this point more information may reasonably be required or expected as the level of commitment to the results of the output is exhibited.

In certain embodiments the assignment of an identification may include assignment of a user or consumer identification number. Similarly dealers operators and the like may also have identification numbers that permit the database to relate and track the activities of persons and organizations with respect to the operation of scanners and the distribution of products.

In response to placement of an order packaging of product consequently occurs typically with a periodicity appropriate thereto. For example a monthly shipment of product or a shipment keyed on a number of days may correspond to the quantity of a daily supply of product provided. As part of packaging or possibly as an independent activity inclusion of a certificate may occur periodically.

For example a certificate may be bundled in the packaging of a product shipment to a consumer subject . Likewise product may be packaged in one manner and the certificate inclusion may actually be conducted by another. Certificates may move by mail e mail facsimile or the like. Thus the periodicity of packaging of a shipment and the inclusion or the distribution of a certificate may be linked may be synchronous may be non synchronous but may actually be physically packaged together.

Upon shipment of a product to a customer records may be updated on a regular basis. Updating may include records associated with not only the purchaser but with the dealer involved the management structure associated with the dealer the originator of the certificate distributed the scanner operator involved and so forth.

If the placement of an order can be by subscription then the test determines whether or not the order is to be repeated. If so then after a delay period preparation of a communication or promotional material may occur. Ultimately on schedule processing of order information results in packaging of the next shipment. Again inclusion of an additional certificate may be on a corresponding schedule. For example in one embodiment every alternate shipment may receive inclusion of a certificate. Thus after two shipment cycles a subject may obtain a pre test in order to verify that the nutritional supplements have indeed resulted in a different score as an output of the scanning .

Optionally preparation of communications or promotional materials may be independent from a natural order. Thus processing of ordering information in certain embodiments may simply be processing of a proposed order in order to include it as a motivation to order. In any event as certificates are made available a return to redemption of the associated certificate may occur. The redemption need not be in strict synchronization with the cycle of packaging and shipping . That is an order might not be a recurring order. Similarly orders may have been cancelled. Likewise the return may be out of schedule even if the shipment or inclusion of a certificate is on schedule. Moreover a certificate may actually be given to a customer that does not have the need for a repeat of the scan on schedule. Thus in general the return may occur regularly as a result of motivation of an individual and the availability of certificates but may also take on a schedule of it s own according to the convenience of a subject .

Referring to a process for the development of a network of individuals in a multi level marketing organization may begin with the development of contacts who may be approached at some point. Accordingly a dealer or manager in a marketing organization may set appointments in advance or impromptu in order to conduct demonstrations . Demonstrations may occur in numerous areas. Likewise a single demonstration may include different types of information in a single demonstration .

For example in a method and apparatus in accordance with the invention a demonstration may include demonstration of an array of nutritional supplement products or the like. Likewise a demonstration may involve presentation of information related to the manufacturer the marketing organization the compensation system or the like. Similarly a demonstration may include a demonstration of a scanner along with the compensation system whereby an operator may operate a scanner as a service. The service may be a standalone service or may be provided in conjunction with sales of product.

Thus as a result of a demonstration various opportunities may be provided to attendees or participants in the demonstration . For example a test determines whether or not the demonstration results in the sign up of a customer. If so then a dealer may facilitate the order. Since a method and apparatus in accordance with the invention may be embodied in various ways facilitating an order may involve assisting a customer to navigate the Internet filling out an order form logging on to a direct dial connection or other mechanism for placing an order. Accordingly a dealer may facilitate the placement of an order by any suitable mechanism implemented over the Internet by a direct dial connection on paper by telephone or the like.

If the demonstration results in signing a dealer then the test results in a dealer facilitating enrollment on the new dealer. That is a customer or consumer may be enrolled by facilitating enrollment of that customer as a dealer by any of the mechanisms available. For example paper e mail Internet browser access direct dial access or the like or some combination thereof may be used for enrollment. Accordingly one conducting a demonstration may use any and all available methods as appropriate to facilitate the enrollment of a new dealer.

If the demonstration results in signing up an operator the test results in facilitating enrollment of an operator. Facilitating may involve a number of steps including obtaining access to a scanner in order to conduct scans. Similarly with some degree of training some degree of commitment contracting or the like may be appropriate. Accordingly over a direct line connection the Internet through paper or the like an individual demonstration may facilitate enrollment of an operator.

Consequently participation within a program as a customer as a dealer as an operator or any combination thereof is contemplated. In any event suppliers can provide product sales materials information and devices in order to participate as a customer dealer operator or combination thereof.

Referring to a method and apparatus in accordance with the invention may include a service core . In order to operate the system entities data may be maintained by the database . Entities data may include information regarding dealers operators customers licensors manufacturers suppliers and others. Accordingly identification information locations contact information as well as other business information and financial information may prove useful or necessary to complete the data .

Relationship data may be some of the most important. That is dealers customers operators and the like often times operate together or have various relationships that result in business connections financial connections or the like. Accordingly relationship data may include genealogy multi level marketing relationship lines etc. for example rank e.g. based on organizational size depth production volume etc. of an individual or entity on which compensation for example may be based. Licensure including licensors and licensees contracts and other information may be included in relationship data . The relationship data is particularly important for communication and for compensation.

Sales data may include dates of events such as presentations sales scans and the like. Likewise the data may include product identification volume amounts of particular products a normalized volume amount that relates more to dollar volume and cumulative data over various periods of interest in sales or other activity. Similarly sales data may include scanner identification customer identification certificate numbers dealer identification and other information that may assist in relating sales to entities and relationships .

Likewise volume data may be thought of as any and all information that may be useful in determining sales performance of individuals and entities. Since relationship data includes genealogy relationships between dealers in the organization the volume data associated with each of those individuals may depend on those relationships. For example the commission for a sale directly to a consumer dealer may be a higher typically than a commission paid to that same dealer on the same sale.

Nevertheless as volumes increase within a particular dealer or manager s organization the rates of compensation for volumes may increase as an incentive. Thus the volume data may be dated that operates as intermediate information from sales data to identify key information that may be required for compensation schemes and schedules. Volume data may be the inputs outputs or both for compensation equations. The volume data may be raw data or may be intermediate data incorporating both sales data and relationship data or may be a combination thereof.

Inasmuch as marketing is becoming a global enterprise currency data may be important. For example in the service call currency data will be needed in order to provide compensation between individuals or other entities who have relationships defined by the relationship data that span different countries. For example Asia has several currencies. Similarly Europe has had various currencies although it is now trying to standardize on the Euro.

Nevertheless it is not uncommon for individuals to have contacts across national boundaries and language boundaries due to the availability of travel and the communication of language. Thus Latin American countries may have relationships spanning one or more countries. Similarly dealers or others within the United States may have relationships with Europeans Asians Africans Latin Americans and so forth. Thus the currency data and the service call provides for manipulation of compensation schemes in order to account for credits of payments in proper currencies.

The data may be maintained in the database . Nevertheless presentation systems are typically required in order to provide presentation graphics data formatting thereof and the like. Accordingly a presentation engine may be programmed to provide presentation data to any visitor to a consumer portal or a dealer portal . Similarly any individual access to the system for any reason and by any mechanism may need to have presentation of information.

Likewise the user interface host requires a presentation engine in order to interact with an operator. The presentation data may be thought of as including formatting and content . Typically content is often the subject of database storage. In other embodiments formatting information may also be included in the database . The sophistication of the database records may be increased or decreased according to exactly how much presentation data and which types e.g. formats vs. content will be included therein.

Likewise processing systems are important for handling information transfer. For example a database engine often contains very sophisticated programming in a number of different library or other executable programs in order to intake output and manage database records . Some of the requirements presently contemplated for a processing system may include a processing engine that is programmed to process information. Some of the information to be processed may include financial information and report information .

For example financial information may include raw data partially processed data personal data and the like for any individual consumer dealer organizational person entity or the like. Similarly report information may include information regarding sales volumes current multi level marketing network affiliations and individuals and the like. Thus the processing engine s operating on financial information report information or other information that should be presented to management consumers dealers licensors or the like may be managed by various processing engines . Similarly the financial information or report information may be raw data or finished data and thus may be the same as database records or processed further for output as content by presentation engines .

Typically Internet systems available widely benefit from a security system . Executables or algorithms implementing security may operate in accordance with data such as passwords rights classifications or classes of entities and individuals classes of information and the like. Thus a security system may execute algorithms in order to verify obtain or operate in accordance with data on which a security system depends.

Referring to a process for managing compensation may include recording data corresponding to various entities. That is whenever any dealer is enrolled a customer places an order for product or a subscription for product or when an operator is enrolled data may be recorded in order to identify manage support and compensate that entity.

Likewise recording relationship data may be conducted before or after the recording of entity data. Nevertheless since entities are typically known first and relationships develop thereafter relationship data may be recorded simultaneously or subsequent to the recording of entity data .

Input of currency data may include initial input as well as updates of currency data . Inputs including subsequent updates of sales data may be input as necessary and appropriate. Determining volumes of sales by dealers and entities is a processing operation to calculate sales volumes that will determine compensation based on an individual entity as identified in the entity data other related entities relationship data relating the entities together and the sales data giving rise to the sales and subsequent compensation. Accordingly determining the volume data sets the stage for allocating financial distributions. Financial distributions may include payments to dealers allocations to operators allocations to licensors payments to manufacturers payments to suppliers and so forth. Similarly credits may be made to customers as a result of purchase volumes in some compensation systems. Similarly all other distributions may similarly be allocated based on the available volumes .

Likewise in certain embodiments certain accounts may be credited rather than making payments immediately. For example allocating may be thought of as the process of determining financial transfers in accordance with the determination of the determination of the volumes associated with various entities . At some point accounts must be credited in accordance with the allocations .

Therefore ultimately statements may be generated . Statements may be generated on some periodic schedule such as monthly. Accordingly the total credits and the currency conversion may be selected as of the date of crediting or the date of the generation of the statement. Any suitable and equitable process that can be managed in view of currency fluctuations may be implemented in the timing and conversion of crediting totaling the credits and conversion of currencies.

Ultimately distribution of payments is hoped for by all of those laboring in the enterprise. Accordingly distribution may be by electronic paper or cash mechanisms as well as others. For example sometimes distribution may be taken in product rather than cash. Thus one may inventory credits in product rather than taking pay outs in cash. For example product given away as a promotional item thus does not show up except as an inventory flow. In a largely electronic system distributing of payments may actually occur by wire transfers between accounts. Online banking is being promoted by financial institutions to reduce paper and to reduce the labor associated with processing paper. Accordingly distribution may be partially or entirely by financial credits to electronic accounts by financial institutions.

Referring to a user interface host or simply a host may operate in conjunction with a scanner as a system for taking a survey or inventory of the hand arm or other part of the skin of a subject . The subject is typically a prospective consumer. The details of operation of the scanner are disclosed by Gellerman U.S. Pat. No. 6 205 354 . A simplified schematic will suffice here. In general a master processor may be thought of as the CPU or processor within a host computer . Typically the master processor needs to accomplish several functions.

For example a management module may be programmed to execute on a processor in order to manage the entire process. For example a presentation may be programmed to run on the processor of the host . Similarly a processing system may be programmed into the processor to handle various information. In the case of the host financial information is of less consequence and may be irrelevant.

That is primarily technical information is processed from the scanner and information available to a user is presented. Accordingly a management module may manage the order of presentation information may include the control in order to process both the information received from the scanner and the input and output information to a user operator . Thus in one embodiment the management module is responsible for any of the functionality and allocation of resources of the processor .

Meanwhile a user interface module provides the presentation graphics the information the prompts and the intake and outflow of information required to step through the sequence of events in which the host and scanner operate together. Similarly a detector module may be allocated any or all of the processing of information coming from the scanner as well as processing the information to be provided to the user interface module as output.

The architecture of the master processor as shown is in a very gross format. Numerous details are discussed later with respect to . Nevertheless as a general proposition the detector module is responsible for data processing of information coming from the scanner . The user interface module is responsible for information presented to and retrieved from an operator. The management module may control the operation of the processor including control of the sequence of events conducted by the scanner . Thus the management module may be programmed to provide management of the interface between the user the host and the scanner .

A user interface may include any input and output systems reasonably required or helpful for an operator to interact with the host . For example keyboards a mouse data input and output devices drives screens printers and the like may all be used in suitable arrangement as input output or both devices for interacting with an operator.

In general a scanner includes a laser source which may be provided by any suitable means. For example lasers may be large or small. Light emitting diodes can produce laser light. A laser source may have some degree of control embedded in it or connected with it by way of a controller or controller . Nevertheless typically a laser source may have some degree of local low level physical control embodied in a controller directly associated or embedded therewith. Other hardware in the scanner or the host may provide additional instructions at a higher level to control the controller .

Eventually the laser source is controlled by signals received through a port connecting the host to the scanner . The module may handle inputs outputs or both of the controller . Meanwhile the laser source projects a beam to a director . The director may or may not be necessary in various embodiments. In several embodiments a splitter mirror may operate as a director in order to pass the beam through to become a beam impinging on a subject .

As a result of the beam striking the subject a re radiated or scattering beam e.g. according to Raman scattering principles returns as a beam redirected by the director . The director directs the beam to become a beam impinging on a director . Many intervening pathways splitters directors filters polarizing elements and the like may be implemented to meet the optical requirements of the beams any derivatives thereof or contributions thereto. Again the Gellerman patent provides additional details of various embodiments for implementing a scanner .

Ultimately a beam impinges on a detector providing a representation or signal output corresponding to intensities and frequencies of energy contained in the beam . As with the controller on the laser source the detector typically will have some low level hardware controller connected thereto in order to facilitate communication with other hardware within the scanner the host or both.

The detector provides a signal that may pass through a pre processor . That is depending on the sophistication desired to be programmed into hardware firmware or software within the scanner proper a pre processor may execute analysis of the information that is output as raw electrical signals from the detector . Typically a pre processor may include functions such as sampling smoothing filtering and the like. Information from a pre processor is ultimately passed to the host and specifically to the detector module . The detector module is responsible for processing data originating with the detector . Again the schematic of the system of is for logical and gross representation of the functionality. Many separate components in multitudinous arrangements can be used to implement the functional requirements of the system in order to provide a reading. That reading or output may be characterized as a body defense score BDS corresponding to the carotenoid content in the subject .

In general the device of Gellerman is directed toward detection of carotenoids in the skin. Nevertheless other systems may scan different parts of subjects including other tissues and the like. Thus although one embodiment of an apparatus and method in accordance with the invention would include a licensure of the Gellerman technology for implementation in the system as the scanner other technologies may also be applied in other embodiments.

Referring to a process may control the scanner and host from a business perspective. For example as discussed hereinabove the system may assert control over authorization received in order to facilitate operation of the host and scanner . In certain embodiments the host may be a dedicated computer. That is it may be programmed with only a sufficient operating system and software to operate the scanner and to interface with the operator and with the system . The host may have limited software by way of a connection to the Internet or a telecommunication interface .

After receiving authorization an operator may operate the scanner . The scanner in the process of generating information to pass through the port to the host may receive subsequent programming control and the like. Meanwhile the host will log all data in an appropriate order. That is depending on the pre processor raw data may be logged. Processed data may also be logged.

Similarly data may be logged from user information subject information and so forth. Ultimately in the process of operating a scanner and processing the information provided thereby the host will output results of value to the subject. The results may be described graphically in text symbols and the like. In one embodiment the output may occur by way of a graph.

In an alternative embodiment that may be used in associated with such a graph or independently or instead of a graph a number called a body defense score BDS may be output for a subject potential customer customer to use for comparison with subsequent and previous BDS outputs received. In certain embodiments a BDS of an individual may be compared to a BDS of a particular population in general a world population or a comparison standard of some particular type.

Data and machinery are most reliable and best for comparison when used under virtually identical circumstances with a minimum of changes in operating variables. That is in general a BDS output for an individual is best compared with a subsequent or previous BDS output from the same machine rather than changing times persons machines conditions all at once and the like. Typical engineering principles recommend minimizing the number of altered conditions. Nevertheless as data is collected and processed more comparisons and more meaningful comparisons may be made. However as a motivation for a subject to participate in purchasing and ingesting nutritional supplements a subject need only receive an output of a BDS number corresponding to relative amounts of carotenoids detected in the tissues e.g. skin of the user . Lest false negative correlations or data result however machines should be reliably and repeatably operable and so calibrated.

A reset step may involve simply setting up the host to run a scan for another individual or may involve shutting off the machine between multiple days or other periods of operation. A test may determine whether or not a user operator desires to upload data that has been logged during a previous particular time period or session. Sessions may be timed numbered or the like. That is a session may be defined as a certain number of scans. Similarly a session may be defined as a period of time during which the host and scanner are programmed to operate.

Ultimately much or all data logged is logged with the intent to be uploaded. Accordingly if the machine or the operator determines to upload data to the file server the system may on its own or through the host check for the status of regarding authorization. If authorization is okay the test results in a return to operation . Since authorization has been received renewed or otherwise activated.

If on the other hand the check results in a revocation of authorization or detects that an authorization time or number has been exceeded then the test may result in an end to a session. The end may result in the end of all operation of the scanner host or both.

One purpose for continuing checks of authorization is that use is a proper licensing measurement for a patented invention. The scanner may be sold but also may be used with throughput as a licensing measurement metric . Accordingly authorization can be checked in order to verify that a machine is being operated within its licensing authority. If the test whether done manually mentally by virtue of programming within the host results in no upload then session authorization must still continue to be valid or operation ceases. If the session authorization is not valid then a test will typically permit only upload operations. That is if a user has not determined to reauthorize timely or a corresponding prompt has been denied then the test may result in only one option uploading since the authorization tests out as invalid in the test .

Similarly the check for the status regarding re authorization may include reporting back to the system in order to verify the authorization status whether new authorizations need to be granted and the like. Ultimately the process results in several valuable functions. Examples are logging data outputting results to a subject to provide motivation and progress reporting uploading data to the system from the host and testing for authorization provide control by the system of the remote operation of the scanner and host .

However implementation details may vary widely. Sequences of events may vary widely. Whether a single machine multiple machines a single software package multiple software packages a single machine instruction or a massive multi media package are involved the illustrated logical functionality of the system may accomplish the valuable functions with the desired minimum or maximum fanfare splash ease presentation graphics and so forth.

Referring to operation methods for the scanner may include powering up or turning on the scanner . Although certain calibrations occur during manufacture field calibration may be valuable with each test or each power up event or periodically over time. Ultimately field calibration may be required by an operator or calibration may simply be a hidden and automated process. In some embodiments the field calibration may be executed by an operator with test samples surrogate subjects for measuring the operation noise scale and the like of the scanner .

In other embodiments a scanner may have embedded within it certain test samples sequence of events and a means to illuminate and test calibrated samples in order to set calibration factors. Nevertheless by whatever means a field calibration may improve the accuracy and repeatability of readings over time through different environmental conditions across different subjects and so forth.

In general presentation of a subject may or may not involve presentation of a certificate shown in brackets as an optional step. That is a subject may walk into a nutritional supplement or other type store and request a scan to be done as a service at a price. Alternatively a certificate may be paid for by a party seeking to motivate a subject to obtain a scan and purchase products. The certificate may substitute as financial consideration. The certificate identification provides a traceable number or other symbol for identifying the obligations and payments associated with performing a scan.

The host provides prompts . The prompts may include various commands or images to direct the user subject or both. For example indications of starting locating a subject or moving a subject s hand or arm closer further laterally about in order to obtain a proper and reliable scan may be provided through prompts . Similarly an operator may be provided indications of steps waiting periods operations to be conducted keys to be struck and other actions to be taken during before after or in relation to the operation of the scanner. For example prompted operational sequences may include operation of the scanner as well as interaction with the SCG system or even the sequence of dialing up the home system in order to upload data.

Similarly browsers wizards menus steps through processes and the like may all be implemented with prompts in order to reduce the level of complexity and the degree of training required. In certain embodiments the problems may be largely graphical in order to transcend languages and provide universal information.

A fundamental purpose of the scanner is to scan a subject . Accordingly the scanner among other processes may illuminate the subject detect a response illumination re radiating or scattering back according to the Raman scattering theory from the subject to provide a detectable result. With delivery of data by the scanner into the host data may be recorded and the process may be repeated any specified number of times. That is any given scan of an individual subject may actually involve multiple scans. In one embodiment 30 scans may be taken over a period of less than 30 seconds in order to get a statistically significant sample of intensities at multiple frequencies across various pixels of a CCD charge coupled device or other detector .

Similarly the host will process the information in conjunction with the scanner . That is some pre processing may occur in a pre processor . Ultimately filtering may occur within the beams or in signals received from the detector . Similarly filtering may occur through applying software to data. Accordingly data may be adjusted or filtered or the like. Similarly data may be fit to a curve in order to provide a statistically reliable integration of the multiple laser scans accomplished within a single scan of a subject . That is multiple scans by a laser source and detector in conjunction with one another actually results in what would be termed a scan of an individual subject .

Accordingly once the data has been fitted then extraction of the target frequency data may be more useful. That is after filtering of noise and background and reducing data by a general curve or histogram of intensities across all frequencies a frequency of particular interest in detection of carotenoids may be isolated. Accordingly extraction of data in the target frequency most commonly associated with the Raman scattering or other scattering technique that might be used by a scanner may result in an ability to evaluate the intensity. Of most interest is the base and peak values for example of a particular portion of the charted intensity.

One objective is the correlation of the data to a score that is repeatable and meaningful to a subject . Accordingly the correlation process and output on the BDS score or other meaningful output to a user may be part of the processing of the significant data. Thus an output of a body defense score or other output metric may be done by a printed writing a displayed image on a screen a picture a graph or the like. If a new subject is to be scanned then a test may return the process to present subject for scanning. Otherwise the system may be shut down and end its operation.

Referring to a user interface host used to interface a scanner to the global compensation system may be implemented using a laptop notebook personal digital assistant such as a Palm Pilot or Ipaq a digital tablet or other dedicated computing device. In certain embodiments the user interface host is an independent computing device that is physically separate from the scanner . However in other contemplated embodiments the user interface host may be integrated with the scanner into a single device.

The user interface host may include various memory modules including volatile memory such a RAM or more permanent memory such as ROM or magnetic storage such as floppy disks or hard drives. Memory may contain executable and operational data effective to control and operate the scanner provide a graphical interface for an operator and communicate back to the seamless global compensation system .

For example in certain embodiments memory may include an operating system to perform basic system tasks operate a file system and provide an interface between applications and hardware components. The operating system may be a common operating system such as Windows or Linux or may be a dedicated operating system designed specifically to operate the scanner .

In certain embodiments memory may optionally include a browser . The browser may be used in web based systems to communicate with a central server or servers . The browser may also be used to directly communicate with a dealer portal a consumer portal or other Internet sites.

In accordance with the invention a scanner interface module may be provided in memory to interface with the scanner . For example a scanner interface module may include a graphical user interface for use by an operator. The graphical user interface may display data to the operator and may include forms or templates to receive inputs such as subject demographic information operating variables and the like.

An initialization module may be used to initialize the scanner before operation. For example an initialization module may read in parameter files and initialize key coefficients and variables used to operate the scanner . Some of these files may be created during a factory calibration process and copied to the user interface host upon mating a scanner thereto. Selected files may be used while operating the scanner . Since every scanner may have distinct characteristics and calibration specifications a serial number may assigned to each scanner . When a scanner is operated the serial number thereof may be compared to serial numbers stored in a configuration file to ensure that files correspond to the scanner connected. Moreover the initialization module may verify that a scanner is compatible with a version of software used in conjunction therewith.

The initialization module may also initialize one or several communication ports between the user interface host and the scanner . In addition coefficients and parameters may be read from the scanner s memory for analysis on the user interface host .

A status checking module may be used to retrieve various status from the scanner . For example a status checking module may retrieve the serial number or other identifying value of an attached scanner to verify that the scanner is the device originally initialized. Additionally the status checking module may check various status of the laser such as temperature or may verify that the scanner is sufficiently warmed up. Certain returned values may indicate that a scanner is connected and communicating with the user interface host . Other values may indicate that operation parameters are within prescribed limits thus ensuring that subsequent scans will return accurate and consistent data. The status checking module may be primarily dedicated to checking values of key indicators at any selected point in time.

A noise filtering module may be used to filter noise from data gathered by a scan. For example in certain embodiments a dark scan may be used to filter noise from subject scans. Raw data values collected during a dark scan may be subtracted from raw data values collected during a subject scan pixel by pixel thereby producing a dark corrected scan.

The noise filtering module may perform a dark scan in response to various conditions. For example a dark scan may be performed during a warm up period wherein consistent results from one dark scan followed by another may be used to indicate that a scanner is sufficiently warm and stable. A dark scan may also be performed whenever a scanner is recalibrated. Also a dark scan may be used if readings appear to be drifting with respect to previous readings. If drift is detected the results of a scan may be inaccurate. In such a case a normal scan may be repeated after performing a dark scan.

A reference measuring module may perform scans used in a calibration process. For example a reference scan may establish variable and coefficient values such that results e.g. scores provided to scanned customers are substantially equivalent to values that would have been produced at the factory. Various routines may be used to verify that the results are reasonably accurate when the new reference values variable and coefficient values are used. Other routines may verify that the scanner produces repeatable results that are reasonably constant from scan to scan. If the results are not reasonably constant the scanner may be considered unreliable. In such cases the scanner may be locked down such that further scans are prevented thereby requiring an operator to have the scanner repaired.

A calibration module may be provided to calculate modify and test important parameters used in the computation of a subject score. A subject score refers to an assessment or measurement of the health of some aspect of a subject customer . For example in accordance with the present invention a scanner may provide a score indicating the amount of carotenoids present in the skin of a subject . However the score need not refer to carotenoids but may refer to any measurement or assessment of the health of a patient.

Referring more particularly to scanning for carotenoids the scanner may compute a score such as a body defense score of a subject . In addition to raw data measured from the subject the score may be calculated using inputs generated by the factory calibration process the reference measurements and the noise filtering . Proper calibration is needed to ensure that a subject is provided with a valid score.

A verification module may be used to verify that a scanner is properly calibrated. For example a reference material such as a card or other material having a known concentration or level of carotenoids may be used to calibrate the scanner . The scanner may be calibrated with the reference material at the factory. When recalibrated the scanner may again measure the concentration in the reference material.

If the measurement is not reasonably close to the original factory reading the scanner may no longer be producing accurate and consistent results and the scanner may be disabled. This will prevent further scanning and encourage the operator to have the scanner repaired. Since this may be a relatively significant undertaking it may be desirable to attempt recalibration several times before concluding that the scanner is in need of repair.

A subject scanning module may be responsible for performing scans on subjects . For example the subject scanning module may enable a normal scan on the skin of a subject s hand in order to return a body defense score. The subject scanning module may also verify that the serial number from an attached scanner is the same as the scanner originally initialized to further ensure accuracy of the score. Various operating parameters such as temperature laser status and the like may be checked to verify that the scanner is ready to produce reliable data.

In certain embodiments the subject scanning module may perform a pre scan for a prescribed period such as 20 seconds to bleach the subject s skin. Next a data acquisition scan may be performed various times such as 3 times. A body defense score may be calculated after each scan. These scores may be averaged to produce a final body defense score. Only the final body defense score may be presented to a user or operator of the scanner . However each individual body defense score may be saved since these may provide valuable diagnostic information with respect to the functioning of the scanner .

Various steps may be performed for each individual scan. For example an operation may be performed to check for scan transmission errors. The scan may also be dark corrected using data calculated by the noise filtering module . If excessive luminescence is detected that is out of range of the scanner a scan may be aborted. If a scan is successful data obtained therefrom may be analyzed to calculate a body defense score. A test may be performed on data received from a scan to determine if there is a significant difference in any of the 3 body defense scores of a subject . If a significant difference is detected an error message may be generated notifying an operator of the excessive spread of values.

A diagnostic module may be provided to diagnose problems settings or status of the scanner . For example a diagnostic module may determine or set a communications rate or baud rate of the scanner . Various commands may be sent to the scanner to monitor the response thereof in order to ascertain that the scanner is operating correctly.

Other commands may be sent to retrieve the serial number of the scanner or to retrieve the version numbers of scanner firmware and hardware components. Yet other commands may retrieve the temperature set integration times set coefficients turn a laser on or off return a recently computed body defense score return raw data or return peak data computed from raw data.

An upload download module may function to upload subject data such as body defense scores or demographic data to a remote server such as to the uploaded data files server . The module may further coordinate the download from remote servers such as the software update server of newer versions of software to operate the scanner .

The scanner interface module may be further programmed to store data . Data may include raw data gathered by the scanner processed data such as body defense scores and the like and subject data such as demographic data corresponding to each subject .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its essence or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

