---

title: Hybrid dual band buoyant cable antenna element
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a buoyant cable antenna configured for both VLF/LF and HF signals. A 100 foot antenna element has a low-pass filter assembly positioned at the midpoint of the antenna element to block HF signals. The outboard tip of the antenna element is shorted. In this way, the antenna element appears as a 50 foot open circuit antenna element to HF signals and as a 100 foot shorted antenna element to VLF/LF signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08760355&OS=08760355&RS=08760355
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08760355
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100920
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to buoyant cable antennas. In particular the present invention is directed to a new form of hybrid dual band buoyant cable antenna element suitable for underwater vehicle communication capable of providing performance suitable for very low frequency VLF reception and high frequency HF transmission and reception in a single antenna element.

The buoyant cable antenna is one of several antennas currently in use for underwater vehicle communications. It consists of a positively buoyant insulated wire that floats on the ocean surface. It connects to the submerged underwater vehicle by means of a long length coaxial transmission line. It is used for communications primarily in the VLF through HF 10 kHz 30 MHz frequency range. Using existing systems VLF reception is best using a 100 ft antenna with a short circuit tip. However HF performance is sacrificed when using this antenna. Conversely HF performance is best achieved using a 50 ft antenna with an open circuited tip but this configuration compromises VLF performance.

Currently there is a need for a hybrid dual band buoyant cable antenna element suitable for underwater vehicle communication capable of providing performance for both VLF reception and HF transmission and reception in a single antenna element.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to provide communication for underwater vehicles through a buoyant cable antenna element.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide VLF reception and HF transmission and reception in a single buoyant cable antenna element.

The above objects are accomplished with the present invention through the use of a buoyant cable antenna configured for both VLF LF and HF signals. The antenna of the present invention is a 100 foot antenna element with a low pass filter assembly positioned at the midpoint of the antenna element to block HF signals. The outboard tip of the antenna element is shorted. In this way the antenna element functions as a 50 foot open circuit antenna element to HF signals and as a 100 foot shorted antenna element to VLF LF signals.

Referring to there is illustrated a prior art buoyant cable antenna consisting of a positively buoyant insulating jacket that surrounds an electrically conductive wire such that the insulated wire floats on the ocean s surface. Buoyant cable antennas have the ability to allow an underwater vehicle to engage in radio communication while the underwater vehicle is operating and submerged. Although it is in principle possible to use this antenna in the VHF band up to 300 MHz most of its usefulness comes in the VLF through HF bands from 10 kHz through 30 MHz.

AT VLF and LF 10 kHz 300 kHz any practical antenna will be electrically short that is much shorter than a wavelength. Current buoyant cable antenna systems use a 100 foot long antenna with a short circuit termination on the outboard tip . The short circuit termination allows radio frequency RF current to flow into the ocean off the outboard tip of the antenna and forms a return loop through the water back to the grounding point for the antenna . The grounding point on current buoyant cable antennas is the coupling between the antenna and the coaxial transmission line that connects it to the underwater vehicle . The return loop is made possible by the low frequency of operation. At low frequencies the skin depth in seawater is sufficiently deep enough to allow a modest return loop to be formed under the antenna as illustrated in . The presence of this return loop increases the gain of the antenna at VLF and LF. However it hurts the gain at HF due to the increased ohmic losses that are induced in the ocean.

Due to the increased ohmic losses that are induced in the ocean underwater vehicles seeking electronic communication at the HF band require a separate 50 foot buoyant cable antenna with an open circuited termination. The 50 foot HF antenna has a gain that is superior to the 100 ft short circuited antenna at high frequency but has a poor VLF performance because the open circuit termination prevents the formation of a return loop of current under the antenna such as the one depicted in .

Referring to there is illustrated the buoyant cable antenna element of the present invention similar in design to the prior art buoyant cable antenna element that functions by introducing a low pass filter assembly half way along the length L of the antenna element . In a preferred embodiment the antenna element length L is 100 feet. Antenna element has a short circuit termination at the outboard tip . The purpose of the low pass filter assembly is to block transmission and reception of signals in the HF band at the midpoint of the antenna. Blocking the transmission and reception of signals in the HF band confines the signals to the first half Lof the antenna element while allowing VLF and LF signals to pass through the length of the second half L to the outboard tip of the antenna element . In this way the antenna element functions like a 50 ft open circuited antenna at HF while also functioning as a 100 ft short circuited antenna at VLF and LF.

In a preferred embodiment the low pass filter assembly consists of a single high frequency shielded inductor electrically connected in series with the wire in the antenna element as illustrated in . Other embodiments of the low pass filter are a pi type or t type filter. The inductor should have an inductive reactance that is low at VLF allowing current to flow the entire length of the antenna element . At HF the inductive reactance is expected to be high compared to the impedance of the buoyant cable antenna and will block current flow restricting the current to the first half L which is the shorter section of the antenna element . Depending upon the specific embodiment the low pass filter assembly is placed inside a chassis and a housing to give it mechanical strength and to facilitate its series connection with the wire of antenna element .

The method of manufacturing the antenna element of the present invention requires the following steps. The antenna element is cut halfway along its length L and fitted with watertight connectors in order to then connect the low pass filter assembly into the antenna element in series. The filter assembly is placed inside a chassis and a housing to give it mechanical strength and to facilitate its series connection with the wire of antenna element and then is connected to the watertight connectors . The filter assembly is then encased in a watertight tube to protect it from seawater corrosion and to give it mechanical strength to withstand being towed through the water.

It is assumed that the HF section shall be the same 50 foot long section as the baseline prior art buoyant cable antenna system. To maintain the same VLF reception capability that is currently available from existing prior art buoyant cable antennas an overall antenna length L of 100 feet with a short circuit termination is considered but with a low pass filter connected in series placed half way along the length of the buoyant cable antenna to produce a 50 foot long HF section.

The characteristic impedance of existing buoyant cable antennas is approximately 180 j11 at the high end of the MF band low end of the HF band. The series inductor makes an approximate series single pole R L circuit with the second section Lof the buoyant cable antenna . The pole frequency of a series R L circuit can easily be shown to be 

To set the pole in the middle of the MF band at 600 kHz an inductor whose value is approximately 50 pH is needed. The HF gain of the hybrid antenna element of the present invention with a 50 pH inductor is very comparable to that of the prior art unloaded 50 foot long open circuited antenna. There is a slight loss in gain below 8 MHz caused by the introduction of the inductor . The inductor s reactance is shifting the resonance of the antenna slightly and introducing a small offset between the two gain curves.

At VLF LF the gains are nearly identical below 50 kHz though the antenna of the present invention does begin to exhibit a weaker gain compared with the 100 ft short circuited one as the frequency increases toward 300 kHz and the top of the band where the gain of the antenna is down by approximately 5 dB compared with the standard 100 ft long buoyant cable antenna . This is largely due to the choice of pole frequency 600 kHz is only one octave away from the top of the VLF LF band and this is not enough of a spacing to prevent the effect of the pole from being seen. This is a consequence of a simple single pole circuit assumed for testing purposes.

Shifting the pole upward reduces the peak drop in gain at VLF LF to 4 dB but increases the loss in gain at HF below 8 MHz. This is the tradeoff that exists with this approach. A compromise must be decided on between the HF performance below 8 MHz and VLF LF performance above 50 kHz.

The above analysis shows that the introduction of a series inductor into a buoyant cable antenna can allow a single antenna element to operate at both VLF and HF with comparable performance to existing prior art antenna elements. The use of a single pole network though does bring some compromise in the performance at the high end of the VLF LF band and again at the low end of the HF band. It is recommended that the gain at VLF be given a lower priority than the gain at HF. This is due to the fact that very often the buoyant cable antenna operating at VLF LF is operating in a region where the overall receive system is atmospherically noise limited. Under these circumstances a decrease in the antenna gain will have little to no impact on overall system signal to noise ratio and data rate received inboard.

The advantage of the present invention is that it allows an underwater vehicle to simultaneously communicate at VLF and at HF with VLF performance comparable to that of the existing 100 ft short circuit antenna and HF performance is comparable to the existing 50 ft open circuited antenna. This capability is provided in one single antenna and so eliminates the need to switch antenna elements in order to switch from VLF reception to HF communications or vice versa.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

