---

title: Detection of faint perturbations of interest using statistical models of image texture
abstract: A system for detecting faint perturbations of interest in an image is described. The system includes a memory comprising the image, and a processor. The processor is configured to estimate a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image, analyze a local region of the image, an image mean, and an image variance using a filter bank, thereby generating a plurality of response vectors, determine a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors, and make a classification decision of the local perturbation. The probability distribution is calculated, for each of the plurality of response vectors, based on a response of each of the plurality of response vectors to the estimated local mean and variance for each of the plurality of pixels. Methods and machine-readable media are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483433&OS=08483433&RS=08483433
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08483433
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100917
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 243 515 entitled DETECTION OF FAINT PERTURBATIONS OF INTEREST USING STATISTICAL MODELS OF IMAGE TEXTURE filed on Sep. 17 2009 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to image processing and in particular relates to the detection of objects of interest within images.

The detection of objects of interest is an important aspect of many areas such as defense systems where an object of interest could be an approaching missile. In many instances detecting an object of interest is made difficult because of a noisy background such as a background of clouds when attempting to detect the approaching missile. Systems such as computers are often tasked with the responsibility of detecting the objects of interest. When attempting to detect an object of interest these systems often suffer from the same difficulties suffered by the human eye namely an object of interest blending into the background.

For purposes of summarizing the invention certain aspects advantages and novel features of the invention have been described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a method for detecting faint perturbations of interest in an image is provided. The method includes estimating a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image and analyzing using a processor a local region of the image an image mean and an image variance using a filter bank thereby generating a plurality of response vectors. The method also includes determining a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors and making a classification decision of the local perturbation. The probability distribution is calculated for each of the plurality of response vectors based on a response of each of the plurality of response vectors to the estimated local mean and variance for each of the plurality of pixels.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a system for detecting faint perturbations of interest in an image is provided. The system includes a memory comprising the image and a processor. The processor is configured to estimate a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image analyze a local region of the image an image mean and an image variance using a filter bank thereby generating a plurality of response vectors determine a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors and make a classification decision of the local perturbation. The probability distribution is calculated for each of the plurality of response vectors based on a response of each of the plurality of response vectors to the estimated local mean and variance for each of the plurality of pixels.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a machine readable medium comprising machine readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for detecting faint perturbations of interest in an image is provided. The method includes estimating a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image and analyzing using a processor a local region of the image an image mean and an image variance using a filter bank thereby generating a plurality of response vectors. The method also includes determining a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors and making a classification decision of the local perturbation. The probability distribution is calculated for each of the plurality of response vectors based on a response of each of the plurality of response vectors to the estimated local mean and variance for each of the plurality of pixels.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description below and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a full understanding of the present invention. It will be obvious however to one ordinarily skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and techniques have not been shown in detail so as to not obscure the present invention.

The description of the invention is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various embodiments described herein. While the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the various figures and embodiments it should be understood that these are for illustration purposes only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

There may be many other ways to implement the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments. Thus many changes and modifications may be made to the invention by one having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

A reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various embodiments described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and intended to be encompassed by the invention. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the above description.

The first step of estimating a local mean and variance or local image noise for each of a plurality of pixels can be implemented according to various processes. For example in certain systems image noise may be well defined by physical processes. In this case local noise may be determined experimentally such as by determining expected local image noise experimentally. This will result in a mean value and variance value for each image coordinate.

In certain other systems it is desirable that image noise be estimated empirically at run time. In these systems the process of may be used which estimates image noise using population statistics. The process of begins in a loop of steps through where for each incoming image in step the image is added to a buffer of images of size N K in order to fill the buffer where N is the number of samples for estimating the image statistics greater than or equal to two and K is the number of samples for estimating the current probe image greater than or equal to one. If the buffer is not full in decision step the process continues to fill the buffer in end loop step by returning to beginning loop step . If however the buffer is full as decided in decision step the process proceeds to step in which the least recent image the N K image is replaced with the current image and the process then proceeds to optional step . In optional step the N K images are registered to the current image which can improve performance of the process . In certain embodiments possible registration algorithms include but are not limited to maximizing normalized cross correlation mutual information and Fourier techniques such as maximizing phase correlation. In step the mean pixel intensity for each pixel is estimated. Step may be completed in various ways for example depending on the image formation and noise model used for the process . One possible way is by calculating the sample mean for a pixel at location x y in the image using the following formula

Finally in step the pixel intensity variance for each pixel is estimated. Step may also be completed in various ways for example depending on the image formation and noise model used for the process . One possible way is by calculating the sample variance for a pixel at location x y in the image using the formula

Proceeding to step of the process of which continues from step of the process of or step of the process of an analysis of the local image image mean and image variance using a filter bank may occur according to the exemplary process of . In certain embodiments the current image or its estimate e.g. if K 0 in process above the estimated image mean and the estimated image variance can all be represented as a two dimensional function f x y .

With reference to the process of step represents a beginning loop step that repeats through step for each such two dimensional function that is each two dimensional function that represents either the current image the estimated image mean or the estimated image variance. In step the two dimensional function is analyzed using a filter bank. The filter bank contain B filters. The bfilter is specified in continuous form as exp square root over 1 where are polar coordinates x y a tan y x and qcan be any integer. In certain embodiments Rcan be any radial function except that for any two filters hand h if q q then the radial functions must be orthogonal according to the formula

In certain embodiments the filter should be discretized using a suitable sampling resolution to approximately retain the orthogonality and rotational invariance of the filter bank. Sampling of the filter produces a discrete form h x y . Exemplary filter sets that may be used from the filter bank include Zernike Polynomial Filters or filters according to the formula 1 For each filter the rotationally variant filter response is in certain embodiments obtained by convolution of the filter with the two dimensional function. For location x y in the function the operation is

The filter bank can also be computed in the Fourier domain. Thus in certain embodiments the rotationally variant filter response is alternatively obtained for each filter by use of the Fourier transform e.g. the fast Fourier transform . To compute the Fourier transform the first step of computing F u v FFTf x y and H u v FFTh x y is not required if the Fourier transform of the corresponding function is already defined known or can be otherwise expressed analytically. The second step of the computation is to compute the Fourier response R u v F u v H u v and the final step is to compute the filter response r x y IFFTR u v where FFT is the fast Fourier transform operator and IFFT is the inverse fast Fourier transform operator. FFT and IFFT are readily available through numerous numerical packages known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

After calculating the rotationally variant response the rotationally invariant response is optionally stored in a memory. The rotationally invariant response is the magnitude squared of the rotationally variant response i.e. the filter response . The process then proceeds to the next two dimensional function in end loop step by returning to beginning loop step . After analysis of all of the two dimensional functions by the B filters in the filter bank each pixel has a representation of B responses from each of the B filters comprising a B vector field across the ensemble of pixels in the two dimensional function. There is one set of B vector fields each of the current image or its estimate the image mean and the image variance. The process continues with step of which is detailed in .

Proceeding to the final step of the process of which continues from step of the process of a determination of a likelihood of a local perturbation and a classification decision are made according to the exemplary process of . The process includes a first step of obtaining a probability distribution and a second step of applying a likelihood based classifier. The process then ends thereby completing the process of .

The process of begins with beginning loop step which repeats steps to for each filter bank response. In step the probability distribution for the filter bank response is calculated based on a response of each of the plurality of response vectors to the estimated local mean and variance for each of the plurality of pixels. For example this calculation can be evaluated as

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with bus for processing information. The processor is configured to conduct the disclosed method. For example the processor is configured to estimate a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image analyze a local region of the image an image mean and an image variance using a filter bank thereby generating a plurality of response vectors determine a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors and make a classification decision of the local perturbation. By way of example the computer system may be implemented with one or more processors . Processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity that can perform calculations or other manipulations of information.

Computer system also includes a memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM a DVD or any other suitable storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . In certain embodiments the image identified in the disclosed process is stored in the memory . The instructions may be implemented according to any method well known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to computer languages such as data oriented languages e.g. SQL dBase system languages e.g. C Objective C C Assembly architectural languages e.g. Java and application languages e.g. PHP Ruby Perl Python . Instructions may also be implemented in computer languages such as array languages aspect oriented languages assembly languages authoring languages command line interface languages compiled languages concurrent languages curly bracket languages dataflow languages data structured languages declarative languages esoteric languages extension languages fourth generation languages functional languages interactive mode languages interpreted languages iterative languages list based languages little languages logic based languages machine languages macro languages metaprogramming languages multiparadigm languages numerical analysis non English based languages object oriented class based languages object oriented prototype based languages off side rule languages procedural languages reflective languages rule based languages scripting languages stack based languages synchronous languages syntax handling languages visual languages wirth languages and xml based languages. Memory may also be used for storing temporary variable or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system further includes a data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. Computer system may be coupled via communications module to various devices. The communications module can be any input output module. In certain embodiments not illustrated the communications module is configured to connect to a plurality of devices such as an input device and or a display device.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure the disclosed process can be implemented using a computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium such as data storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement various embodiments of the present disclosure. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium or media that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. For example one such medium or media includes machine readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for detecting faint perturbations of interest in an image comprising estimating a local mean and variance for each of a plurality of pixels in the image analyzing using a processor a local region of the image an image mean and an image variance using a filter bank thereby generating a plurality of response vectors determining a likelihood of a local perturbation in the image using a probability distribution based on the plurality of response vectors and making a classification decision of the local perturbation. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as data storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Common forms of machine readable media include for example floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

While certain aspects and embodiments of the invention have been described these have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms without departing from the spirit thereof. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the invention.

