---

title: Frameless video system
abstract: A frameless audio/video object (FAVO) that provides information to a user. In one embodiment, the FAVO is interactive, such as having hotspots for allowing a user to select more features or information. The information may be advertising. The user can select a desirable FAVO, such as a favorite celebrity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707179&OS=08707179&RS=08707179
owner: Avazap, Inc.
number: 08707179
owner_city: Venice
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 61 245 831 filed Sep. 25 2009 entitled Frameless Video System the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

New forms of online videos have recently emerged on the web frameless videos in which characters appear free from a rectangular border whether inside a web page or on top of the web page the latter form being known as overlay.

To date frameless videos have been predominantly limited to a web page within a web browser application and although these videos appear borderless they are still part of a bigger frame the web page window that is contained by the web browser application window. Existing frameless videos within a web page are often ads such as a car that moves across the page or a pop up. These can be frustrating to a computer user since they obscure the page the user is trying to read. Another common form of web page based frameless videos are web page host s that attempt to guide and enhance an end users experience within a given web page. Frameless video outside of a webpage and web browser applications also exist. For example virtuagirl.com provides downloadable video files of models for display on the operating system desktop outside of a browser or other application.

An example of an interactive advertising system where a user can select the types of ads is set forth in US Published Application No. 20090063283 System and Method for Consumer Selected Advertising and Branding in Interactive Media. US Published Application No. 20090144105 shows advertising associated with an avatar in a virtual world. US Published Application No. 20080120558 describes an avatar that can migrate from one virtual environment to another.

Stanford professors Byron Reeves and Clifford Nass in their compelling study The Media Equation How People Treat Computers Television and New Media like Real People and Places have highlighted that people automatically and subconsciously anthropomorphize their computer experience. Modern computers attempt to express complex actions and produce objects that are from the real world. The human brain wants to treat the computer as if it were a type of life form.

The present invention provides a frameless object that provides information to a user. In one embodiment the object is interactive whereby the object provides additional information to the user in response to user action. The additional information may be commercial information such as advertising or may be non commercial such as medical information.

In one embodiment the frameless object is a frameless video object or a frameless audio video object FAVO The system collects and transmits information about the user s interaction with the FAVO.

In one embodiment the FAVO can move outside of the display window border of a webpage web browser application or any other software application running on a given device. The FAVO may be synchronized with a corresponding FAVO on other devices such as a mobile phone so that the FAVO appears to move from device to device with the user. Multiple FAVOs may be provided with interaction between FAVOs. The user can select a desirable FAVO such as a favorite celebrity.

In one embodiment the FAVO provides advertising by displaying a product or logo providing a new type of product placement. Alternately the FAVO can link to advertising. User interaction with a FAVO can be tracked Client software tracks user viewing time and interaction with the FAVO and uploads the information to a system server.

In one embodiment one or more methods are used to encourage a user to download and use a FAVO. The FAVO can be a favorite celebrity or an attractive model. The FAVO can provide desired information about the celebrity using the video with or without audio of the celebrity herself. Alternatively the celebrity can provide information about other products or services. In another embodiment the browser can detect downloaded FAVO s and disable ads presented on web pages that otherwise would be provided to the user. This allows the user to not only see just ads of interest but to reduce the number of unwanted ads. The ads or products displayed with the FAVO could be linked to searches done by the user thus aiding the searcher in a product or service search.

Referring to in one embodiment the system comprises i a remote Data Storage Delivery and Monitoring System the DSDMS A and ii a Client Module A that enables the display of a Frameless Video or stream of Frameless Videos on the operating system display and or on the display of an application being run by the operating system. The Client Module also comprises software that monitors the device user s interaction with Frameless Video s and transmits data representing this interaction back to the remote DSDMS where the DSDMS stores and organizes this information making it available for report generation according to the desires of interested parties. Depending on the data received regarding a particular user s interaction with the Frameless Video s the DSDMS comprises software that can further customize new information that is transmitted back to that user s Client Module further enhancing the user s interaction with the Frameless Video s . This reiterative interaction between the Client Module and the DSDMS provides an ongoing unique Frameless Video experience for each device user.

FAVOs are high definition frameless videos that display objects or people as they appear and sound in the real world as a result they contribute to humanizing the computing experience. In addition the FAVOs have the ability to be played outside of the webpage web browser and or application window and are capable of floating on the top layer of the operating system and other application windows allowing them to co exist as companions to the end users along with other computer applications. Moreover the FAVOs are capable of accompanying the end users for hours days or longer including off line hence displaying multiple impressions to the end users.

The frameless floating and extended stay video technology is a new consumer information medium that is more effective and interactive than traditional online videos. In the advertisement market this present invention expands the capabilities of direct marketing with the flow of information now being two way direct from the advertiser to the consumer and then feedback directly back from the consumer to the advertiser.

Though the FAVO are still confined to the computer screen they are not bordered by the rectangular window that surrounds most forms of software. This provides the illusion that the FAVO resides within the computer itself. The device user has the option of having the FAVO display on top of any software application and the device user can completely control the opacity of the image to make the FAVO less intrusive. This fosters a long term engagement between the device user and the advertiser s successive marketing campaigns.

The present invention is directed to high definition frameless videos that are played independent from the display frames of other software applications. is an example of a FAVO golfer on right end corner.

The content of the software takes the shape of a windowless and organically shaped object generally built from HD filming and 3D development suites that floats on the operating system desktop display and optionally on top of the display of other software applications. In the celebrity in the bottom right corner is a dynamic moving and talking character that simulates real world life and humanizes the computing experience. With the ability to float on top of other applications the FAVO can accompany consumers throughout their daily computing activities. These objects can take any shape and run for any duration that a sponsor desires. Generally the FAVO appears as a moving picture video but the FAVO may be a static frameless image series of static frameless images. In this static form the FAVO end user interaction such as a mouse click may cause the FAVO to transform into video mode thereby bringing the static image to life .

The visually appealing and interactive nature of the FAVO encourages initial and continued acceptance of the FAVO by the consumers. FAVOs are visually appealing because i they are images of real people they admire or trust or are images of products that they desire ii they are connected to applications that provide information and utility that relates to admired or trusted people or products iii they are completely free iv new and customized content can be delivered to the FAVO to further stimulate the user and v the content delivery is non intrusive.

The FAVO take advantage of opportunities offered by the recent development of larger and more capable computer screens. As screens have become wider they leave empty space on the sides of the screen because web pages and most other applications do not fill the entire width of the screen. Microsoft Vista Sidebar is an example of initiatives taking advantage of these empty spaces. In addition the increase in the number of pixels enables smaller images to look clearer. As a result the FAVO can reside on end users screens while being non intrusive and realistic. This ongoing trend towards clearer screen images will also allow the FAVO to be visually potent on the small screens of ultra portable laptops netbooks tablets and handsets.

In one embodiment the user can be redirected to a FAVO website by interacting with advertisements. The website will include optional registration and profile information and a catalog of FAVOs or FAVO categories for download. Once the user selects a FAVO for download the Client Module is downloaded or instantiated when the user indicates a desire for a FAVO.

Is a frameless video audio capable software object. The FAVO can use Microsoft Agent technology Microsoft Silverlight Adobe Air or other technologies. In one embodiment the FAVO is a windowless form using COM interop to call Microsoft Agent. In alternate embodiments different FAVO architectures are provided for different operating systems. To clarify the frameless video has the ability to float as a separate visual layer on top of the operating system and or an application display window and the end user can control this ability to set which applications the frameless video will float on top of commonly referred to as setting the Z order of a software application .

This Client Module is used to communicate with the Data Storage Delivery Monitoring System DSDMS . It uses secure web service calls to upload statistics such as click throughs impressions or time spent viewing FAVOS to the DSDMS. In one embodiment the Client Module accesses the DSDMS for new versions of the Client Module as well as for new FAVO S. It is responsible for requesting new content from the Content Distribution Network. These requests may be end user initiated and or may be performed at specified periods without end user input whereas the Client Module automatically polls the DSDMS for new content. The said requested new content may be grouped in packages such as an update to the Client Module combined with several unique FAVO s and or a set of unique FAVO s. In this case the Client Module will be able to track upload statistics to the DSDMS that go beyond whether the package was simply downloaded rather detailed data regarding precise end user interaction with each of the items grouped within the package of said items will be tracked and uploaded to the DSDMS. In another embodiment each item be it software update or single FAVO maybe requested and streamed to the Client Module one item at time whereas the above mentioned tracking and uploading of statistics will apply. The Client Module manages FAVO playback including successive playback of unique FAVO s one after another and also provides a toolbar tray icon for setting basic options. The Client model may be implemented by various programming strategies a. accessing the application programming interfaces that work with a web browser application or embedded as a plug in to a web browser application b. accessed remotely via the internet as software service c. embedded within the FAVO software object model as a system of related properties functions methods or other software services d. and or downloaded from the remote DSDMS as a software application that runs on the device s operating system. The said programming strategies may be combined to deliver the optimal implementation of the Client Module.

The DSDMS is a set of secured web services and data management systems that are used to store and download information about available FAVOS Client Module upgrades sponsor information end user information and end user interactions with FAVO s running on their device. It is the DSDMS that houses the information that is needed to generate reports for Avazap FAVO sponsors and other interested parties. In one embodiment the DSDMS is a relational database management system.

The Sponsor Portal is the part of the system that FAVO Sponsors will use to create and monitor ad campaigns see statistics such as click throughs and impressions . In one embodiment it is a standard ASP.Net 2.0 Web Application using Telerik RadControls and AJAX to provide an easy to use and responsive User Interface.

Content creation is where the FAVO S are produced. One created they are uploaded to the DSDMS and made available for distribution on the Content Delivery System CDS .

The AVAZAP Portal is the portion of the system used by AVAZAP itself to monitor the system create and delete FAVO metadata etc. In one embodiment it is a standard ASP.Net 2.0 Web Application using Telerik RadControls and AJAX to provide an easy to use and responsive User Interface.

Akamai or a similar partner can be used to stage FAVO S and in one embodiment to download new versions of the Client Module.

In one embodiment the Client Module software is installed on the user computer. It takes up a small footprint for processing and memory through a number of features which also provide desired speed. In one embodiment custom software is used. In another embodiment the software takes advantage of existing Microsoft agent technology found on most computers. The software interacts with MS Agent software primarily for visual display purposes. The following software object interacts with the Agent Server core component of the Windows operating system via the MS Agent API. This module can control any MS Agent objects created. These objects have the file extension .ACS or .ACF. The following subset of the Microsoft Agent Object Model objects are used 

These objects are organized in the following hierarchy shown in . Objects in The dotted line following an object indicates that multiple objects can exist. 

Instead of an end user going to a web site such as YouTube.com and downloading video files in one implementation an ID number of the FAVO or FAVO category that has already been downloaded is stored by the Client Module. The DSDMS uses these ID numbers to determine what content to stream to the Client Module. This cross referencing of ID numbers insures that the Client Module only requests FAVO s that have not been downloaded while providing the DSDMS the data to control the FAVO inventory residing on any given end users system. The Client Module has the ability to display a FAVO on the end users device display based upon activation events. The user can either select an activation schedule or triggers or manually activate a FAVO. A possible default would activate the FAVO whenever the web browser application is active. In one embodiment a FAVO is launched based on an end user search query the content of said FAVO would relate to the string in the search query said FAVO would appear on top of the display frame of application that contains search query box. In one embodiment the Client Module tracks end user search query input using that information to launch a search relevant FAVO. This is accomplished by end user keystroke mapping of edit boxes designed for search query input and then comparing that input to a look up table containing FAVO s with descriptive tagging information. If the said descriptive information matches the search query input then the FAVO s are displayed. In one embodiment this code is embedded into a search enabled website such as www.Google.com. In another embodiment key mapping is initiated by the Client Module if a given website or search enabled application such as a toolbar that has a search query input field appears in a look up table of search enabled websites or search enabled applications.

A FAVO supports alpha channels. An alpha channel is a portion of each pixel s data that is reserved for transparency information. 32 bit graphics systems contain four channels three 8 bit channels for red green and blue RGB and one 8 bit alpha channel. The alpha channel is really a mask it specifies how the pixel s colors should be merged with another pixel when the two are overlaid one on top of the other.

An alpha channel can be defined on a pixel by pixel basis or per object. Different parts of the object would have different levels of transparency depending on how much background is desired to show through. For example the green screen portions of an image can let everything else on the display show through creating the appearance of only the FAVO being over the rest of the display.

Various embodiments of the invention may use different formats such as .PNG .MNG or GIF In the case of .GIF alpha channels are not supported.

Multiple FAVO modes are possible and can be user definable. The FAVO can simply show products or logos on the FAVO with the products being clothes with logos or an article held by the FAVO e.g. golf club . Alternately backgrounds or other FAVOs can display other products or services.

The Client Module monitors the time a FAVO is active and which products or logos are displayed including the time period for each. Any user interaction such as clicking on a FAVO is recorded including what part of the FAVO where that produces a different result. An example of a software module for monitoring user interactions is Google s Gmail which reads the text of email which was entered via a keystroke EUI End User Interaction and then offers relevant ads based on the context of your emails. This EUI data is provided in batches to the DSDMS to avoid overloading the DSDMS. Alternately real time or increased frequency batch uploading can be used. The information can be directed to advertising customers or used by the DSDMS to refine FAVO presented. For example if a user clicks on a model s shoes other shoes can be displayed since the user has shown a real time interest in shoes.

Additionally in one embodiment the software monitors other user activity while the FAVO is active such as browsing calendar viewing etc. A FAVO is activated based upon what web page an end user visits particular FAVO are mapped to a web page or website address and are launched by the Client Module whenever an end user visits said web address. An embodiment uniquely goes beyond the confines of a single web page prior FAVO solutions exists only within the display frame of a single web page and allows for a consistent uninterrupted FAVO experience throughout multiple web pages within a given website. In one embodiment this is accomplished by keeping track of the root and sub directories of a web site. An embodiment has the FAVO to a. stop persisting and to shut down after a web site has been left by the end user OR b. persist for a set time period after the web site has been left by the end user OR c. persist until an EUI turns off the display of the FAVO.

In one embodiment user selection of a FAVO can be encouraged by limiting other ads provided to the user. For example if the user selects a Harry Potter FAVO a browser can detect this and stop the display of a Harry Potter movie trailer that would otherwise appear on a web page. This would be done by storing a cookie on the user machine with a FAVO ID code. The cookie would be read by the browser which would correlate it with a table indicating which ads are otherwise to be displayed. If the cookie corresponds to an ad the ad will not be displayed. This allows advertisers to both achieve more targeted advertising and provide a perceived benefit to the user. Also ads for other movie types could be inhibited or the same genre targeted since the user desires are now known.

The end user will be able to manage the properties and settings of how FAVOs play and exist on his or her system. The end user will be able to control the deletion frequency of play order of play by creating play lists a common feature in applications such as ITunes and Windows Media Player position on the screen opacity level number size and volume of the FAVO.

Interacting with a FAVO can initiate any programmable action such as launching a relevant page on the clients website. For instance if a FAVO is a fashion model a web page could be launched that has information regarding the items or items that are similar to the items that the fashion model FAVO is wearing utilizing and or gesturing towards. This is useful to the customers as the FAVO is driving traffic to their existing web pages.

At certain key points in a FAVO the video is mapped to include multiple end user interact able hotspots. The hotspots are mapped as follows in one embodiment. The FAVO is launched and then the user clicks a freeze frame button during a portion of the FAVO content that lends itself to a key interaction point. For example if a model was walking from a far point in 3D space towards the end user as the model gets closer it appears to be larger. Once the model reaches its largest closet point the user would hit the freeze frame button.

The mapping software via tracking end user interactions provides data for the screen coordinates the display frame dimensions and the exact pixel that was interacted with in the display frame. The software designer decides what types of logical regions exist within the image. These regions can be anything on the FAVO. Customers will choose what the regions will consist of. Here s a list of possible items that a fashion merchant might want to hot spot on their FAVOs Head shoes shirt bracelet etc.

The software designer clicks on each corner of the region to identify the pixel data for each of the four corners of this region. The designer then enters this data into the source code in order to launch a programmatic event based on a EUI. This is repeated for each region of the FAVO that should be mapped out as a hotspot. The process is automated in the following areas 

In one embodiment the code is stored in the FAVO object itself. In one embodiment a Hot Spot List property contains all the hotspots regions for a given FAVO. In another embodiment the Client Module queries a look up table containing hotspot region data for the various FAVO s.

As an example the end user can click on the model s shoe in a FAVO and the clients web page for the shoe would be launched or can click on her blouse and the blouse web page would appear. As a result an advertiser can advertise multiple products and services on one single FAVO. Hot spots can also be used to control the actions of the FAVO or to generate more scenes. This provides a more interactive experience than traditional videos. Rather than simply playing a video the technology leverages the power of the computer to control playback and establish meaningful viewer interaction as well as deliver images in an innovative frameless fashion.

In one embodiment dynamic positioning of the logical regions does not require an end user to have to freeze the FAVO playback in order to have the hotspots work accurately. For example the area surrounding the FAVO is a hotspot in one embodiment. Visible and invisible areas surrounding FAVO can be hotspots. Hotspots can be trigger scenes. For example a scene can appear that asks if you want to purchase and item yes no tell me more . The FAVO can trigger the appearance of purchasable items which separately are hotspots. The EUI generates separate FAVO S .

In addition to the FAVO the technology is composed of three other software objects that interact with each other 

In one embodiment is an example of software location and interaction wherein a relational database system stores delivers and monitors data in communication with a. client software on an end user device b. FAVO information stored on Customer device c. 3party content delivery networks and d. Web based portals for report generation.

The FAVO and the Client Module use minimal space on end user hard drives in one embodiment less than 1 MB for the Player and 2 to 4 MB for each FAVO depending on their duration although varying sizes could be used. In one embodiment this space requirement is based on the average FAVO requiring 8 MB per minute of content. A temporary cache is used for streaming purposes. In one embodiment the FAVOs will reside on the hard drive of the device for the life cycle of the FAVO campaign. Large FAVOs can be parsed into smaller frame segments to manage streaming or other software issues.

In addition running a FAVO campaign has very little impact on end users computer performance and leaves plenty of computational capacity for an end user to run multiple applications. The end user can have a single FAVO running at a time or can run of multiple FAVO while concurrently running multiple applications which requires more CPU time.

In one embodiment the system leverages existing functionalities of end users systems. Multiple versions of the Client Module are provided for each different operating system. The Client Modules leverage the code libraries of different operating systems. For example the proprietary code base will be built on top of the proven Microsoft Windows Application Programming Interface.

In one embodiment the Client Module is first installed by the end user on his or her system after responding positively to a solicitation to view the FAVO. This solicitation can be initiated by various means 

The installation of the Client Module is designed to be light and quick and as user friendly as updating Adobe s Flash Player if not more so.

An ad campaign may contain any number of scenes FAVOs as the end user will enjoy the experience with more content. An individual FAVO can contain several imbedded scenes. Each FAVO consists of short e.g. 15 to 30 second scenes that blend advertising and entertainment. Once the end user opts in to receive the campaign the FAVOs transparently stream to his system. These scenes are played in sequence and then randomly whenever the end user activates the FAVO. The Client module tracks the number of times a given scene is played which enables metric reports that clearly distinguish the first viewing of a FAVO from subsequent repeat viewings. This capability allows the customer to value and to be charged different rates for the initial viewing versus repeat subsequent viewings of each given FAVO and to gauge the end user acceptance of a given FAVO based on the number of viewings of said given FAVO.

In one embodiment the Client Module will reside on the end user s system even after the end of a campaign. At any time the Client Module can receive new campaign materials from the same advertiser and offer them to the end users who would have opted in for it. The system can track and question end users on their scope of interest and judiciously solicit them to receive targeted campaigns from new advertisers. The resulting database can be used for existing and new customers to target new consumers.

In one embodiment the FAVOs are saved on the end user s system ensuring an extended stay of the ads. If the content is compelling i.e. visually entertaining and the utility solid the end user will allow several replays of each FAVO ensuring multiple impressions. This effect is multiplied if the end user activates the companion mode where the FAVO floats on top of other applications. In one embodiment the end user can tag a given FAVO as favorable which would cause it to replay more often than other FAVO s or tag a given FAVO as unfavorable which would remove the FAVO list of FAVO s to be played in the future.

It is desirable to make the FAVOs enjoyable entertaining and interactive in order for the consumers to opt in to the marketing campaign.

The audio visual content is prepared in a manner similar to producing TV commercials. Scenes are shot in front of green screen in order to create flawless frameless videos.

The Portal provides clients with live and detailed reports on end user activity such as impression count click through count rate total engagement time end user settings favorite FAVO and playback frequency. The reporting can be customized and expanded to handle the specific metric needs of individual clients.

The solution is a new ad format delivery and tracking system. What we are offering is borderless video messages that live beyond a single web page web browser or display frame of any software application. Rather than having a marketing message locked into a single application window the product creates a direct pipeline to the consumer. This pipeline allows the sponsors to strengthen their connection to their customers while providing exciting content news flashes promotional discounts and a living icon that can drive traffic to their web pages.

The sponsors challenge is to integrate the marketing message within the content in such a way as to entertain and not annoy the end user. Once this challenge is overcome the end user will spend many minutes if not hours days or months willingly interacting with and being influenced by the marketing campaign.

Because the FAVO are opted in by the end users they are inherently more efficient than online video ads in a browser including overlays. As a result we believe FAVO deserve to be priced at a premium relative to existing online video solutions. However we believe the business model is profitable at or under the rate offered by current online video solutions.

In summary the technology offers key competitive characteristics relative to other online video advertising solutions 

The following is a description of how the solution is compelling for select targeted advertisement end markets. These specific examples are fictional and are intended to illustrate general customer applications and to clarify how the solution is utilized in the real world.

Promoting popular stars and entertainers is a natural fit for the solution. These celebrities have huge fan bases an established media web presence existing sponsors and their own product lines. Most importantly they are audio visually appealing. Popular musicians are ideal candidates as they can dance sing and speak well. These all happen to be great qualities for a software companion.

Hannah could sing and dance while she promotes her new songs albums or concerts. She would also be able to promote her many associated products directly by speaking about them indirectly by wearing them and or using them as props in any of her daily updatable scenes.

Hannah is associated with a large number of products. She has her own clothing line called Asda Clothing and is also in partnership with Disney and Wal Mart. Wal Mart sells over 140 Hannah Montana products. A Hannah Montana FAVO would be an ideal way for advertisers to promote these products. In addition Hannah Montana might promote new episodes of her TV show other Disney performers products or events.

Hannah s enterprise and associated sponsors would derive significant benefits from the Hannah Montana FAVO. Aside from the product advertising and show event notifications mentioned above the FAVO would increase Hannah Montana s branding. Hannah Montana s fan demographics teen and pre teen girls are apt to download and share computer content. As a result we believe that a Hannah Montana FAVO campaign could quickly spread out on desktops around the world.

Due to the size of Hannah Montana s fan club we anticipate first end users of these FAVO to share them with friends ensuring a faster dissemination of the campaign. In one embodiment pop up menus are provided on the FAVO itself or menu items are provided in the Player that would launch a form.

In one embodiment code can be pasted into a website or webpage to enable permanent FAVO insertion into that web site. An embodiment supports drag n drop to websites or web pages. This is insert code that will remain a permanent part of said web site or web page. An embodiment utilizes said websites existing widget code pasting procedures. An embodiment supports inserting multiple FAVO into said websites or web pages

The end user will be able to manage the properties and settings of how FAVOs play and exist on the web page that the FAVO has been inserted into. The end user will be able to control the deletion frequency of play order of play position on the screen opacity level number size and volume of the FAVO.

Another embodiment allows the sponsor to reward according to the sponsors desires the end user if another end user grabs the FAVO and puts it on a different website. The said rewards may be based on any tracked EUI on said different website. Furthermore if yet a different end user grabs the FAVO and puts it on a different website each end user in the sequence of FAVO sharing end users may be rewarded by the sponsor. This describes a multi level hierarchy of sharing and rewarded end users. This can be tracked by giving an end user that share FAVO s a unique sharing ID. This data can be used by the DSDMS to track multiple successive layers of sharing and reward these FAVO sharing end users according the sponsors desires.

All of the above applications support optional downloading or instantiating of the Client Module to enable FAVO persistence that is independent of software application display frames.

Sport stars are also ideal candidates for a FAVO ad campaign. Reasons include i huge fan bases ii constantly changing statistics that can be presented to those attentive fans iii existing endorsement contracts that can be cross market opportunities iv organizational structures like the MBA NBA NFL NHL and PGA that will sponsor the stars as they promote their sports and branded merchandising.

Imagine if Nike was the lead sponsor for the marketing campaign. In conjunction with the clients we could produce scenes with Tiger wearing a Nike hat and his new signature Nike golf shoes while he is driving putting inspecting the putt etc. These could be or not depending on sponsor preference interspersed with associated direct advertisement such as the shoe alone appearing briefly on the screen. Click on the shoe and it takes you to the Nike webpage highlighting the same shoe. This type of directed traffic makes it easy for an end user to get more information or purchase any item that catches his eye.

The FAVO can link to information about Tiger or simply display it. For example current score and standing in an ongoing tournament his schedule for the next month etc. A pop up of his current score could occur after every hole during a tournament. This can be accomplished by linking with sites that provide real time sports updates.

This is but one of many possible campaign concepts. Tiger Woods as a FAVO could easily perform spokesperson activities for organizations such as the PGA providing key information to willing fans. Golfers aside from simply liking Tiger Woods and enjoying his presence as a software companion might also enjoy studying his various golf strokes. A detailed Tiger Woods sponsored golf lesson of the day is yet another angle that would be well received.

The technology is particularly well suited to specialized retailers. Some of the most potent retailing applications are in the world of fashion. In this case the model wearing the clothing is both the content and the advertisement. Although this can also occur with sports and pop stars those types of campaign will most likely be sponsored by a corporate brand. With a fashion marketing campaign we can achieve a true synergy of advertising and entertainment or as we like to call it advertainment .

Using the technology a user will be able to see what the product looks like from multiple angles in an exciting living way. Imagine Victoria s Secret models doing catwalks on the screen showcasing clothes and performing. Changes in size and direction 360 views and all the excitement models bring to the catwalk can be emulated with this approach.

Users could choose to view the catalog full screen as a stand alone show or the show could be played in a smaller less intrusive manner. This small sideshow is particularly interesting because it allows for simultaneous viewing . Unlike browser experiences which tend to take up valuable screen real estate and interfere with other activities the FAVO presentation takes place as one continues his normal workflow on the computer.

For example an office employee could have the FAVO play in bottom corner as he or she continues to work. If he or she sees something of interest on the FAVO he or she could then click on it and be taken to the Victoria s Secret Website to learn more. If not he or she could continue on with his or her work. The FAVO catalog is a new innovative and superior form of web powered catalog.

The other type of user is the eye candy user . Many users both men and women will be interested in the Victoria s Secret FAVO simply for the visual eye candy experience. Beautiful models strutting on the screen showing off bathing suits and lingerie is a compelling experience. Beautiful women with fresh and varied content will stimulate end users worldwide to eagerly download and continue to update these free living Victoria s Secret models.

We also expect that this type of user will let their friends know about these free downloads and add to the viral marketing power of these FAVO. We anticipate that this type of eye candy has the potential to become a permanent fixture of the computing experience.

The benefits for Victoria s Secret are many increased catalog usage and distribution enhanced branding and recognition and increased sales. The FAVO marketing tool is an ideal enhancement to Victoria s Secret s existing advertising campaign strategy.

Our technology can also be used for product centered campaigns that do not require a human experience. These non human yet visually pleasing FAVO are well suited for our optional embedded e commerce capabilities. This innovation empowers an end user to purchase an item displayed as a FAVO with a simple mouse click thereby bypassing the need to surf to a retailer s website or as we like to say See it Click it Own it 

This example illustrates how our FAVO can be attractive entertaining interactive and valuable for end users who will therefore choose to download our technology and to receive new campaigns. With flower FAVO end users can replicate on their computer desktop the decoration elements they are already used to have in their office or home. Flower FAVO are entertaining as they can move bloom or be static and can be changed as often as desired. They are interactive as end users can choose the flowers they want to see make them transparent increase or decrease their size or have as many flower FAVO as they would like. Flower FAVO also represent a valuable content as end users can learn flowers name history geographic origin season just through a simple click.

For 1800FLOWERS.COM flower FAVO represent an efficient advertising promotion and e commerce engine. As discussed previously clicks on flower FAVO can drive web traffic on 1800FLOWERS.COM. In addition our FAVO can integrate an embedded e commerce engine that would bypass the advertiser s website. After an initial purchase or sign in that would record end users data payment information address etc. this new e commerce engine will enable the end user to make seamless integrated purchases. Simplifying the buying process will foster commerce and especially increase the likelihood of impulsive shopping.

By providing fresh digital flowers on a daily basis 1800FLOWERS.COM exchanges gorgeous eye candy for a valuable direct pipeline to its customer base that can communicate promotions and news in a timely and very direct manner. 1800FLOWERS.COM would also use a FAVO billboard software object that would present its regular customers with discounts reward points and or other promotions. Now promotions are lively and provided in an innovative entertaining and engaging way.

Various embodiments include a highly scalable redundant and secure server solution to serve i the information collected by the DSDMS from the Client Modules across the end user base and ii the reports sent by the DSDMS to the Sponsor Portals across the customer base. This ensures the scalability and reliability of the information as the data collected.

Another embodiment provides an automated digital content production pipeline a new suite of software designed to further enhance the creation process of the FAVO from the production through the post production processes. The core element of the digital content production pipeline automatically removes the green background and generates the frameless object instantly. This provides immediate feedback to production teams on set therefore reducing filming sessions and interaction with post production. In addition editing tools and modules for the digital content production pipeline further reduce the lead time for post production.

In one embodiment the Client Module supports other platforms including Apple Mac OSX. The Client Module s features set can be expanded based on end user and client feedback.

One embodiment provides a third party monitoring and verification system that further strengthens the credibility within the client base.

Re usable code modules are specifically designed for clients in the same vertical in order to leverage the sales and marketing effort. For example modules for the promotion of movies include pre built code for finding local theater times and to purchase tickets directly from the Client Module and are able to be re used for other customers in the same vertical.

As discussed above on pages 22 23 the software is integrated with the various popular social networks. This makes it very easy for the end users to place a FAVO on their social network web page and therefore share it with all their friends. As a result this will accelerate the diffusion of a campaign.

End users can generate their own content. This Web 2.0 initiative hinges on the image display software object and the development of an automated image background removal tool. This automated tool is based upon the digital content production pipeline. This digital pipeline allows a FAVO to be generated in real time. With such a capability end user as FAVO based greetings can be shared amongst loved ones. Imagine having your very own children as desktop based software companions. This innovative messaging software will take the form of a web page based tool where end users can make and send FAVOs of themselves via their home computers and video cameras. A potential clicks and mortar enhancement would be to create a kiosk positioned in shopping malls or areas where consumers congregate. This would be for convenience and higher quality imagery.

The Client Module will also function on mobile devices and set top boxes. Currently television stations run FAVO s on top of a program that is being shown on a particular station to promote their sponsors or other television programs. This trend has occurred to counter act the fact that programs are often recorded and conventional commercials can be avoided by fast forwarding past them. However these broadcasted FAVO s are similar to embedded on a web page. For example when an end user leaves a particular web page all of the content including FAVO disappears to reveal the content of the next web page in the same fashion when a viewer changes the channel the content including FAVO disappears to reveal the program that is broadcast on the new station. In contrast in the present invention the FAVO will float on top of the television display powered by our Client Module and remain visible regardless of what station is on. This empowers end users to choose their content and if desired they can drag the FAVO to a position on the screen that will visually obscure the FAVO being broadcasted by the current channel. One way to describe this is a frameless picture in picture.

One embodiment provides special effects such as morphing looping and branching of images to increase user interaction with the FAVO.

In other embodiments the FAVO can be integrated with other technology. For example the FAVO could be an image of the end user with the end user s dimensions to allow modeling of how clothes would look on the end user. One example of an implementation is set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7 522 165. A FAVO on a mobile device can use location based ad and coupon technology see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 257 .

EUI End user interaction. A subset of possible EUI include clicking on any part of the FAVO clicking on a particular part of the FAVO or a user voice command. The interaction between a device can occur in many different ways. As devices evolve additional EUI may become possible. Here is a list of current standard EUI 

All of these events cause the device to initiate some form of software code that can launch a software or hardware event. Sometimes a EUI initiated in a 3rd party software application will activate a FAVO not directly associated with said application. Primarily we will focus on EUI dealing specifically with FAVOs.

The Client Module has the ability to track any EUI. The Client Module will interact with the web browser API to register interesting activities. Tracking is done of time spent with FAVO where the FAVO is the software application that is active and in focus. Determined by several factors including but not limited to

The FAVO can appear to move from the computer to the phone. In one embodiment this is done with separate synched applications on each so the model is wearing the same outfit when the user goes to lunch and checks his her phone. One option is for the FAVO to hop back and forth between devices where the user is using both devices.

In one embodiment the FAVO detect when the user is busy and shrink to the corner. In another it will enlarge to full screen when the user clicks on it. The software can detect where windows are open and move the FAVO to the side of these. It can either get out of the way or move into the user s peripheral vision. The FAVO can freeze when moused over to make it easier for the user to click hotspots. A user can select different FAVOs for different categories and link them to different appearance schedules. For example 

This DTD application is useful in demonstrating the FAVO role as cyber expert. Basically the DTD solution provides a direct pipeline to each end user the Patient and is designed to help these Patients maintain the correct procedures in administrating their medications. After addressing this core solution the DTD allows pharmaceutical companies the Client to directly market other goods and services to these Patients.

After any FAVO Message is Delivered and or any EUI Performed the FAVO Will Communicate the Details to the DSDMS.

At any Point the Client Will be Able to Access the Scope of the Campaign Via the Web Based Dashboard Reporting Tool

In one embodiment the FAVO object interleaves audio and video rendering it impossible for the two types of content to become out of sync.

Through tracking storing and analyzing EUI behavior the content of subsequent FAVO can be optimized for end user relevancy. For example If an end user opts for a fashion retailer FAVO campaign and is only interested in shoes from that retailer than subsequent content from that same retailer can consist of primarily shoes.

DSDMS is analyzed across all of clients various FAVO ad campaigns. For example The entire history of all created FAVO and indexing based on FAVO content. Content is tagged according to descriptive criteria used to query DSDMS data base. End users can receive campaigns from multiple clients. For example If an end user likes a wine of the month FAVO from one winery they will probably be open to a similar FAVO from a different winery client. Placement in the FAVO content queue of an end user can be controlled. For example imagine a FAVO campaign starring Miley Cyrus that is initially sponsored by Disney. After gaining a user base of millions of eager fans Miley might decide to open up some of the slots in her FAVO content queue to additional sponsors. These sponsors would then vie in some manner to gain a slot in the additional sponsor queue.

The purchase of real world items displayed as FAVO objects is enabled. The items can be a product FAVO or an item that a FAVO is wearing using gesturing towards. A FAVO purchase engine is provided for enabling direct purchase upon clicking or third party click through can be supported. A FAVO Catalog can present multiple FAVO items for purchase. The items can be bookmarked and cached for later retrieval. The catalog supports filtering of items and go to item via indexing. The catalog can be paused and resumed from a pause and or a bookmark.

An embedded FAVO purchase engine will allow EUI with FAVO to launch a commerce activity. The EUI can launch an order confirmation form can be skinned to match a client s brand and can include an ad unit.

The EUI can launch separate and possibly multiple FAVOs that represent a purchasable item on the primary FAVO. This will make it very clear to the end user what is purchasable on the FAVO. This solution can work in tandem with hot spots or stand alone. The stand alone solution addresses the difficulty in mapping each frame of the FAVO. The items in the FAVO are not stationary . . . rather they move all about through time and space. With this technique it does not matter precisely where a particular purchasable item is within the FAVO. Rather the EUI makes all purchasable FAVO clearly evident.

One embodiment supports pop up menu or other forms of selection list objects or applications. Tags of the FAVO or hotspot on the FAVO become item identification codes that are used for ordering.

A FAVO can originate from an application e.g. email and remain after that application is closed. Alternately the FAVO could leave the application to wander around the screen and then return to the application. For example it could move outside of a display banner ad and then return. The FAVO can use audio to gain attention or gesturing at other graphics. Scenes with the FAVO can be used to gain users attention and interest.

In one embodiment the Client Module is software application that runs on the Microsoft Windows or other operating system. Client Module consists of an executable file which can be downloaded via the internet from the AVAZAP website customer websites and customer marketing partner sites and portals. Once installed the Client Module will perform many functions. Here s a list of example features 

Detect user system settings such as screen resolution CPU and RAM and set defaults most appropriate to user capabilities.

Allow user to manage the properties and settings of how the FAVOs play and exist on users system. Users will be able to control the FAVO settings such as 

It should be understood that embodiments of the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention.

A recitation of a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

