---

title: Bearing apparatus featuring electrorheological fluid lubrication
abstract: The present invention, as variously practiced, implements electrorheological fluid (ERF) as a bearing lubricant. Various modes of an inventive rolling element bearing apparatus provide for electrification of inventive electrode components, viz: (first mode) two annular disk electrodes, opposite each other and perpendicular to the two raceway surfaces; or, (second mode) electrically conductive inner and outer races, having an electrically conductive spacer therebetween; or, (third mode) plural electrodes, radially embedded in a race. An ERF lubricative coating remains on one or both raceway surfaces in accordance with Winslow effect principle (first and second modes) or edge effect principle (third mode). An inventive journal bearing apparatus provides for electrification of electrodes that are axially-longitudinally embedded in a journal bearing member, resulting in establishment of edge effect electric flux lines between adjacent electrode pairs, an ERF lubricative coating thereby remaining on the journal bearing member's inward facing surface, contiguous to the shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07980765&OS=07980765&RS=07980765
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07980765
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100611
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 890 105 filing date 24 Jul. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 736 063 issue date 15 Jun. 2010 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Bearing Apparatus Having Electrorheological Fluid Lubricant joint inventors Ronald P. Reitz and Gus F. Plangetis.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to bearings more particularly to methodologies such as involving lubrication for reducing adverse effects such as wear associated with frictional contact characterizing bearing operation.

Bearings are used in a wide variety of machinery including motors and other rotating machines. Bearings are frequently the first component of equipment to fail. Failure of rolling element bearings e.g. ball bearings or roller bearings for instance is commonly associated with tribological effects e.g. wear and tear when insufficient lubrication is applied to the surfaces of the rolling elements e.g. balls or rollers . Incorporated herein by reference are the following book excerpts which are instructive concerning bearings and lubrication Chapter 8.4 pages 8 114 to 8 138 entitled Fluid Film Bearings by Dudley D. Fuller of Ninth Edition Eugene A. Avallone and Theodore Baumeister III Editors McGraw Hill Book Company New York 1986 ISBN 0 07 004127 X Chapter 8 pages 352 392 entitled Lubrication of Merhyle F. Spotts Fifth Edition Prentice Hall Inc. Englewood Cliffs New Jersey 1978 ISBN 0 13 200576 X.

A longstanding objective in the bearing related arts has been to improve the lubrication of bearings so as to minimize wear and extend the useful life of the bearings. Various methodologies have been proposed to achieve improved lubrication in bearings such as disclosed by the following U.S. patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference Yabe et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 228 813 B1 issued 8 May 2001 Brackett U.S. Pat. No. 6 193 014 B1 issued 27 Feb. 2001 Ryan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 574 B1 issued 30 Jan. 2001 Stephens et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 280 090 B1 issued 28 Aug. 2001 Takasaki et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 244 386 B1 issued 12 Jun. 2001 Hashimoto U.S. Pat. No. 6 290 397 B1 issued 18 Sep. 2001 and Stephens et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 280 090 B1 issued 28 Aug. 2001.

Yabe et al. disclose use of a polymer film to coat the race surfaces of a rolling element bearing. The bearing is filled with a polymer that contains lubricant the lubricant is released as the rolling element exerts pressure on the film coating during operation. A disadvantage of this methodology is that over time the film releases all of its lubricant the film itself becomes lubricant starved. Another disadvantage is that the properties of the film degrade over time due to polymer aging effects. The compression of the rolling element accelerates the aging effects which consequently degrade the capabilities of the film to function as a lubricant releasing agent.

Brackett discloses atomizing of pressurized air with a lubricant so as to provide a spray mist. A disadvantage of this methodology is that once the mist has been deposited onto the race it is then free to flow from and or drip off the race that is the lubricant is not secured to the surface of the race but can leave the race due to the action of gravity. Furthermore generally speaking the viscosity of a lubricant is temperature dependent the viscosity decreasing with increasing temperature. The viscosity of the lubricant determines its flow and drip characteristics that is when the viscosity of the lubricant decreases the lubricant flows faster. Thus when operating temperature conditions change so too will the flow and drip characteristics of the lubricant. Therefore according to the methodology of Brackett under some operating conditions the lubricant will flow or drip from the race surface faster than under other operating conditions at higher temperatures the viscosity of the lubricant will be lower and the flow rate of the lubricant e.g. away from the race will be higher. Under operating conditions of lower viscosity and higher flow if too much lubricant flows away then insufficient residual lubricant remains on the race the bearing thus remaining lubricant starved. 

Ryan et al. disclose application of a solid lubricant coating to a bearing. A disadvantage is that the solid lubricant of Ryan et al. functions as a result of wearing away that is small particles of solid lubricant are shaved off of the coating by the rolling element as the rolling element moves along race surface. The coating is eventually worn away because the number of particles shaved off increases over time. Moreover as Ryan et al. s coating is worn away the increasing clearance between the rolling elements and the races leads to problems relating to vibration.

The bearings disclosed by Takasaki et al. and Hashimoto involve the flinging or flowing of lubricating fluid onto a bearing surface by means of a component that picks up the lubricating fluid as the shaft and inner race turn. The bearing lubrication approaches of Takasaki et al. and Hashimoto are disadvantageous similarly as is that of Brackett. The lubricant is free to flow or drip from the race surface s once it is flung or flowed onto the race surface s . Further the flow rate away from the race surface is dependent upon the viscosity of the lubricant and is therefore temperature dependent.

Stephens et al. disclose microstructures e.g microchannels or microposts to help distribute lubricant in a bearing. A disadvantage of Stephens microstructures is that since the surfaces they form are uneven unsmooth the distribution of compression forces acting on a bearing element and hence the wear of the bearing element is uneven. The surface areas formed by the peaks highest elevations of the microstructures are subjected to higher compression forces and hence are prone to greater wear than are the less elevated surface areas.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved methodology for lubricating bearings.

An electrorheological fluid abbreviated herein ER fluid or ERF is a composition comprising a dielectric fluid and a multiplicity of electrically polarizable particles dispersed in the dielectric fluid. The following U.S. patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference are informative regarding electrorheological fluids Reitz U.S. Pat. No. 5 194 181 issued 16 Mar. 1993 Reitz U.S. Pat. No. 5 296 155 issued 22 Mar. 1994 and Reitz U.S. Pat. No. 5 945 036 issued 31 Aug. 1999. When an ERF is electrically energized to a sufficient degree the viscosity of the ERF increases and the ERF is capable of sustaining a shear stress. Such are the characteristics of an ERF that when electrically energized it can be suspended between two electrodes. The ERF remains in position between the two electrodes until either the electric field is removed or the ERF is displaced e.g. the ERF mechanically pushed out of the way by a suitable means .

The present invention employs an electrorheological fluid as the lubricant for a bearing. Featured by the present invention is the holding in position via electrification of electrodes or electrode analogues of electrorheological fluid on a bearing surface so that the electrorheological fluid lubricates the bearing surface and the frictionally contacting component or components. As frequently embodied the present invention features the holding in position via electrification of electrodes or electrode analogues of electrorheological fluid on a raceway surface of a rolling element bearing so that the electrorheological fluid lubricates the raceway surface and the rolling elements as the rolling elements move over the raceway surface.

Depending on the inventive embodiment other inventive features include reducing the viscosity of the electrorheological fluid as by ceasing electrification thereof to facilitate removal and replacement of the electrorheological fluid controllably changing the magnitude of electrification of the electrorheological fluid e.g. in terms of voltage or current so as to controllably change the viscosity of the electrorheological fluid controllably changing the magnitude of electrification of the electrorheological fluid e.g. in terms of voltage or current in one or more selected regions of the bearing so as to controllably vary the viscosity of the electrorheological fluid from region to region. The present invention affords easy lubricant replacement in bearing applications requiring high viscosity lubricant during operation. The present invention maintains higher viscosity of the ERF lubrication during operation by energizing the ERF lubricant and reduces the viscosity of the ERF lubrication thereby facilitating drainage emptying of the ERF lubricant by refraining from energizing the ERF lubricant. The viscosity of the ERF lubricant can be controllably altered during operation in order to promote better performance. The viscosity of one or more specific regions of the ERF lubricant can be controllably varied while the viscosity of the ERF lubricant in one or more other regions is held constant in this manner the present invention succeeds in controlling the pressure distribution over various arc lengths of a circular bearing such as a rolling element bearing or journal bearing.

According to frequent inventive practice the ERF lubricant is energized during operation so that a high viscosity is maintained. When the electrorheological fluid lubricant needs to be replaced e.g. is excessively old or used a portal in the bearing housing is opened after the electric field is shut off. Turning off the electric field enables the old used lubricant to freely flow out of the portal and also enables new fresh electrorheological fluid lubricant to be introduced into the bearing housing. The de energizing of the electrorheological fluid lubricant reduces the viscosity thereby enabling free flow of the old used lubricant out of the bearing through the portal. The new fresh electrorheological fluid lubricant is non electrified and therefore flows easily into the bearing. Moreover in accordance with the present invention the viscosity of the ERF lubricant can be controllably changed in response to changes in temperature of the bearing. During operation of the inventive bearing apparatus the speed of rotation may vary hence the temperature due to frictional heating may vary. Generally with regard to inventive adjustment of the ERF lubricant a consideration shared by the various modes of inventive practice is that the viscosity of the ERF lubricant should be sufficiently high that ERF lubricant remains in the desired location or locations but should not be excessively high whereby ERF lubricant hinders the relative rotational motion of the relatively rotating components e.g. the outer race and the inner race in first mode second mode and third mode inventive practice or the journal bearing member and the shaft in fourth mode inventive practice .

The present invention can be practiced as various kinds of bearing apparatus including rolling element bearings and journal bearings. The term rolling element bearing is used herein to broadly refer to any bearing involving a principle of rolling friction. Ball bearings wherein the rolling elements are e.g. spherical and roller bearings wherein the rolling elements are e.g. cylindrical are rolling element bearings. The term race surface as used herein generally means a surface of a race at least a portion of which is subjected to rolling contact by rolling elements. A race surface typically describes a circular track of the rolling elements. A race surface can be even e.g. smooth or flat to conform with cylindrical rolling elements or uneven e.g. including a channel groove furrow that conforms with spherical rolling elements . The term journal bearing is used herein to broadly refer to any bearing involving a principle of sliding friction. The present invention provides multifarious embodiments which can be categorized in terms of at least four inventive modes. Electrorheological fluid ERF is implemented as a bearing lubricant in accordance with the various modes of inventive practice. An inventive rolling element bearing mode provides for electrification of two opposite annular disk electrodes a Winslow effect electric field is established therebetween so that an ERF lubricative coating remains on one or both raceway surfaces. Another inventive rolling element bearing mode provides for electrification of electrically conductive inner and outer races Winslow effect electric fields are established between the inner race and the electrically conductive spacer and between the outer race and the electrically conductive spacer electric fields so that an ERF lubricative coating remains on both raceway surfaces. Another inventive rolling element bearing embodiment provides for electrification of electrodes that are radially embedded in a race edge effect electric flux lines are established between adjacent electrode pairs so that an ERF lubricative coating remains between the adjacent electrode pairs on the embedded race s raceway surface. An inventive journal bearing mode provides for electrification of electrodes that are axially longitudinally embedded in a journal bearing member edge effect electric flux lines are established between adjacent electrode pairs so that an ERF lubricative coating remains on the journal bearing member s inside surface between the journal bearing member s inside surface and the shaft s outside surface.

According to typical embodiments of a first mode of inventive practice a rolling element bearing apparatus comprises an inner race an electrically nonconductive outer race plural electrically nonconductive rolling elements a housing electrorheological fluid and a pair of annular disk shaped electrodes. The inner race has an outward facing raceway surface. The outer race has an inward facing raceway surface. The rolling elements are situated between the inner race and the outer race. The rolling elements effect rolling contact with the outward facing raceway surface and the inward facing raceway surface. The rolling elements revolve in an approximately vertical circumferential path around the approximately horizontal longitudinal axis of a rotating shaft when the outer race is stationary and the inner race is secured to the rotating shaft. The housing defines a fluid tight chamber accommodative of the circumferential path. The electrorheological fluid partially fills the chamber so as to form an electrorheological fluid bath in a lower region of the chamber. A lower section of the inward facing raceway surface is immersed in the electrorheological fluid bath. An upper section of the inward facing raceway surface is not immersed in the electrorheological fluid bath. Each revolving rolling element passes through the electrorheological fluid bath and carries a quantity of electrorheological fluid onto the upper section of the inward facing raceway surface. The electrodes are situated parallel and opposite to each other each electrode extending perpendicularly from the inward facing raceway surface and being separated from the outward facing raceway surface. Upon electrification of the electrodes an electric field is established between the electrodes so as to retain some electrorheological fluid between the electrodes. A lubricative electrorheological fluid coating thereby remains on at least a portion of the inward facing raceway surface according to typical inventive practice the at least a portion of the inward facing raceway surface includes the upper section of the inward facing raceway surface.

According to typical embodiments of a second mode of inventive practice a rolling element bearing apparatus comprises an electrically conductive inner race an electrically conductive outer race plural electrically nonconductive rolling elements a housing electrorheological fluid an electrically conductive spacer and a power supply. The inner race has an outward facing raceway surface. The outer race has an inward facing raceway surface. The rolling elements are situated between the inner race and the outer race. The rolling elements effect rolling contact with the outward facing raceway surface and the inward facing raceway surface and revolve in a circumferential path around the longitudinal axis of a rotating shaft when either the inner race is rotating relative to the outer race or the outer race is rotating relative to the inner race. The term relative rotational motion is used herein in the context of rolling element bearing apparatus to refer to rotation of either race with respect to the other race such as when the inner race is stationary and the outer race is rotating or alternatively when outer race is stationary and the inner race is rotating or alternatively when both the inner race and the outer race are rotating at different speeds or alternatively when both the inner race and the outer race are rotating in different directions or alternatively when both the inner race and the outer race are rotating at different speeds and in different directions. The housing defines a fluid tight chamber accommodative of the circumferential path. The electrorheological fluid partially fills the chamber. Each revolving rolling element contacts some electrorheological fluid and carries a quantity of electrorheological fluid. The spacer for spacing apart the rolling elements at fixed distances has an inward facing spacer surface and an outward facing spacer surface. The spacer is interposed between the inner race and the outer race the inner race and outer race being separated from the spacer and from each other. An inner electrorheological fluid containment region is delimited by the outward facing raceway surface and the inward facing spacer surface. An outer electrorheological fluid containment region is delimited by the inward facing raceway surface and the outward facing spacer surface. The power supply is for electrifying the inner race and the outer race so that an inner electric field is established by the inner race and the spacer in the inner electrorheological fluid containment region and so that an outer electric field is established by the outer race and the spacer in the outer electrorheological fluid containment region. Some electrorheological fluid is thereby contained in the inner electrorheological fluid containment region via the inner electric field and some electrorheological fluid is thereby contained in the outer electrorheological fluid containment region via the outer electric field. According to frequent inventive practice the geometric rotational axis is the geometric longitudinal axis of a horizontal or approximately horizontal rotating shaft the circumferential path in which the rolling elements revolve lies in a vertical or approximately vertical geometric plane the outer race is stationary the inner race is secured to the rotating shaft and the electrorheological fluid partial fills the chamber so as to form an electrorheological fluid bath in a lower region of the chamber.

According to typical embodiments of a third mode of inventive practice a rolling element bearing apparatus comprises an inner race an electrically nonconductive outer race plural electrically nonconductive rolling elements a housing electrorheological fluid and plural electrodes. The inner race has an outward facing raceway surface. The outer race has an inward facing raceway surface. The rolling elements are situated between the inner race and the outer race. The rolling elements effect rolling contact with the inward facing raceway surface and the outward facing raceway surface and revolve in a circumferential path around the longitudinal axis of a rotating shaft when either of the inner race and the outer race is rotating relative to the other of the inner race and the outer race i.e. when the inner race is stationary and the outer race is rotating or when the outer race is stationary and the inner race is rotating or when both the inner race and the outer race are rotating but at different speeds and or in different directions . The housing defines a fluid tight chamber accommodative of the circumferential path. The electrorheological fluid partially fills the chamber. Each revolving rolling element contacts some electrorheological fluid and carries a quantity of electrorheological fluid. The electrodes are embedded in the outer race and are spaced apart e.g. spaced closely apart so that adjacent electrodes are nearly parallel so as to be positioned radial or approximately radial with respect to the longitudinal axis. In other words each embedded electrode defines a geometric line segment that coincides with a geometric line that is perpendicular or approximately perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. As the present invention is typically practiced the embedded electrodes define respect geometric line segments that lie or approximately lie in the same geometric plane that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. Each electrode has an electrode tip and extends to the inward facing raceway surface so that the tip is flush with the inward facing raceway surface and is exposed to the chamber. Upon electrification of at least one adjacent pair of electrodes an electric flux is established between the adjacent pair of electrodes so as to retain some said electrorheological fluid on the inward facing raceway surface and between the adjacent pair of electrodes. According to frequent inventive practice the geometric rotational axis is the geometric longitudinal axis of a horizontal or approximately horizontal rotating shaft the circumferential path in which the rolling elements revolve lies in a vertical or approximately vertical geometric plane the outer race is stationary the inner race is secured to the rotating shaft and the electrorheological fluid partial fills the chamber so as to form an electrorheological fluid bath in a lower region of the chamber.

According to typical embodiments of a fourth mode of inventive practice a journal bearing apparatus is for use in association with a shaft characterized by a longitudinal shaft axis. The inventive journal bearing apparatus comprises a cylindrical electrically nonconductive bearing member electrorheological fluid and plural electrodes. The bearing member is for circumscriptive placement with respect to the shaft. The bearing member is characterized by a bearing length and has an inward facing bearing surface characterized by a first circumference. The shaft has an outward facing shaft surface characterized by a second circumference that is smaller than the first circumference. When the bearing member is circumscriptively placed with respect to the shaft a space exists between the inward facing bearing surface and the outward facing shaft surface. The electrorheological fluid is for disposition between the inward facing bearing surface and the outward facing shaft surface. The electrodes are embedded in the bearing member and are separated from each other so as to be positioned parallel to the longitudinal shaft axis and to each other. Each electrode has an electrode edge and extends at least substantially along the bearing length so that the electrode edge is flush with the inward facing bearing surface and is exposed to the space. Upon electrification of at least one adjacent pair of electrodes an electric flux is established between the adjacent pair of electrodes so as to retain some electrorheological fluid on the inward facing bearing surface and between the adjacent pair of said electrodes. According to frequent practice of the present invention s journal bearing apparatus upon electrification of at least one adjacent pair of electrodes a lubricative electrorheological fluid coating remains on the inward facing bearing surface between the adjacent pair of electrodes.

The inventive journal bearing apparatus can be embodied so that the electrodes are positioned around at least substantially the entire first circumference upon electrification of every adjacent pair of electrodes an electric flux is established between every adjacent pair of electrodes so as to retain some electrorheological fluid around at least substantially the entire first circumference of the inward facing bearing surface. According to frequent inventive practice a lubricative electrorheological fluid coating thereby remains on at least substantially the entire first circumference of the inward facing bearing surface. The inventive journal bearing apparatus as often embodied further comprises a power supply for electrifying at least one said adjacent pair of said electrodes and power adjustment circuitry for adjusting the degree of electrification of each of at least one adjacent pair of electrodes so as to adjust the viscosity and hence the lubricative quality of some electrorheological fluid retained between the adjacent pair of electrodes . Some inventive journal bearing embodiments are selectively adjustable according to region or electrode pair that is the power adjustment circuitry is capable of individually adjusting the degree of electrification for each of plural adjacent pairs of said electrodes. During normal operation of the inventive journal bearing apparatus the inward facing bearing surface is concentric with the outward facing shaft surface however the inventive journal bearing apparatus may tend over time to become non concentric with the outward facing shaft surface. The present invention s power adjustment circuitry as often embodied has the capability of selectively adjusting the viscosity of the electrorheological fluid at different locations in the space between the inward facing bearing surface and the outward facing shaft surface thereby restoring concentricity of the inward facing bearing surface with the outward facing shaft surface. An active control system can be inventively implemented in association with power adjustment circuitry to take sensory input as to one or more parameters e.g. ambient heat machinery heat rotational speed and based on the sensory input to actively adjust in a continuous feedback manner the amount of electrical power and hence the viscosity of the corresponding ERF lubricant that goes to every location or to one or more specific locations. The power adjustment can be performed globally e.g. as to both or all electrodes or electrode pairs in groups e.g. as to groups of electrode pairs and or individually e.g. as to individual electrode pairs .

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to and which illustrate typical configuration and use of a conventional pillow block ball bearing . As shown in the balls rolling elements roll between an inner race and an outer race which are the tracks on which the balls roll. The inner race and the outer race are concentric with each other. The outer race is attached to the exterior housing of the bearing. The inner race is attached to a shaft which is turned for a useful purpose. For instance as depicted in rotation of the shaft associated with a steam turbine results in the generation of electricity by an electric generator that is the generator produces electricity when the shaft is turned. The bearing s exterior housing is attached to a stationary foundation on which the electric generator rests.

A typical feature of a conventional ball bearing is a fluid tight chamber interior space for containment of a conventional lubricating fluid . Typically the chamber is not filled entirely with lubricant but rather with a percentage of the volume of the chamber. The chamber is filled partially rather than totally to prevent churning of the lubricant which can significantly degrade the lubricative characteristics. The lower portion of the outer race borders upon the lubricant bath that is formed due to gravitational influence on the lubricant. A normal but disadvantageous result of such partial filling according to conventional practice is insufficient lubrication of the upper portion of the outer race.

By way of explanation when the shaft and the inner race are turned the outward facing surface of the inner race and all of the balls in time move into and through the lubricant bath i.e. the lubricant filled lower region of the bearing s chamber and emerge into the non filled upper region of the bearing s chamber. The balls and the inner race thus become lubricated as the shaft turns. The outer race however does not turn. Lubrication between the balls and the inward facing surface of the upper portion of the outer race occurs when each ball emerges from the lubricant bath. Frequently the lubrication on the surface of the ball rubs off as the ball begins moving along this upper portion of the outer race when this happens the balls become lubricant starved. The friction in the lubricant starved portion of the outer race causes wear and eventual wear induced failure of the bearing.

Described hereinbelow are Examples 1 through 4 which correspond respectively to first mode inventive practice through fourth mode inventive practice. Examples 1 through 3 are representative of roller bearing type embodiments of the present invention. Inventive first mode inventive second mode and inventive third mode can each be practiced for instance when the rolling element is a sphere or a cylinder. Example 4 is representative of journal bearing type embodiments of the present invention. The ordinarily skilled artisan who reads the instant disclosure will understand that some characteristics are shared by two or more among the four modes of inventive practice and that certain configurational operational and or material features of a given inventive example are or may be similar to those characterizing one or more other inventive examples regardless of explicit statement or restatement to such effect.

In each of Examples 1 2 and 3 the chamber is filled with an appropriate amount of ERF lubricant typically representing a percentage of the capacity of chamber that promotes optimal operation of the inventive apparatus. As compared with inventive second mode practice inventive first mode practice and inventive third mode practice may each tend to involve utilization of less ERF lubricant. For instance according to some first mode inventive embodiments and some third mode inventive embodiments chamber is filled with ERF lubricant to no more than about twenty five percent of the capacity of chamber . Also by way of example according to some second mode inventive embodiments chamber is filled with ERF lubricant in the range between about forty percent and about fifty percent of the capacity of chamber . Depending on what is most suitable for a given inventive embodiment inventive practice can provide for filling of the lubricant chamber with ERF lubricant to any capacity less than complete capacity of the lubricant chamber i.e. in the range greater than zero percent and less than one hundred percent of the capacity of the lubricant chamber.

A first mode of the present invention is typically practiced so as to describe a kind of ball bearing pillow block arrangement similar to that shown in . According to the first inventive mode the ERF lubricant is held in position by means of an electric field onto either or both of the inner and outer races. The inventive rolling element bearing apparatus is configured with two electrodes suitable for electrically holding the ER fluid in position on a raceway surface. As a rolling element moves over the raceway surface it pushes most of the ERF lubricant out of its path except for a thin lubricant layer that remains between the rolling element and the raceway surface. The inventive rolling element bearing is lubricated primarily by virtue of the lubricant layer coating the raceway surface.

The inventive embodiment described herein with reference to and involves a horizontal rotating shaft a circular bearing element path defining a vertical geometric plane attachment of an inner race to the horizontal rotating shaft and extension of inventive electrodes from a stationary electrically nonconductive outer race nevertheless the ordinarily skilled artisan who reads this disclosure will understand how first mode inventive practice can involve any of various kinds of relative rotational motion between the inner race and the outer race any of various vertical and non vertical orientations of the bearing element path extension of inventive electrodes from either or both of the inner race and the outer race. Inventive practice typically demands that whichever race that the inventive electrodes extend from be electrically nonconductive. Hence the inner race is electrically nonconductive if inventive electrodes extend from the inner race the outer race is electrically nonconductive if inventive electrodes extend from the outer race both the inner race and the outer race are electrically nonconductive if inventive electrodes extend from each of the inner race and the outer race.

Referring now to and inventive ball bearing apparatus includes housing ends and O ring support disks and housing spacer cylinder electrically nonconductive cylinder electrically nonconductive materials and electrodes and outer race inner race balls electrode wires and screws and channels and O rings and ERF lubricant chamber and ERF lubricant . Outer race and inner race are concentric with each other. Inner race has a grooved outward facing raceway surface . Outer race is electrically nonconductive e.g. made of ceramic and has a grooved inward facing raceway surface .

Plural balls are electrically nonconductive e.g. made of ceramic and are situated between the inner race and the outer race . Electrodes and made of an electrically conductive material e.g. a metal such as copper or a metal alloy are annular disks disks with a hole in the center similar in form to washers. The two annular disk shaped electrodes and are situated parallel and opposite to each other. Each of electrodes and extends perpendicularly from the inward facing raceway surface of outer race and is separated from the outward facing raceway surface of inner race . A retainer spacer such as shown in and is not shown in and so that other features are more clearly illustrated nevertheless according to typical practice of inventive first mode embodiments a retainer spacer that spaces balls apart from each other at fixed distances is included in the inventive ball bearing apparatus .

Inventive ball bearing can be used to support a rotatable shaft such as shaft shown in . The outer race is stationary and the inner race is secured to shaft . While shaft is turning rotating the balls effect rolling contact with outward facing raceway surface and inward facing raceway surface and revolve in an approximately vertical circumferential path around the approximately horizontal geometric longitudinal axis a of shaft . Housing includes circumferential housing portion and housing end portions and . Housing defines a fluid tight chamber that is accommodative of the circumferential path of balls . Inventive ball bearing is connected to power supply by electrode wires and . Wire connects power supply to electrode wire connects power supply to electrode . A seal system such as diagrammatically shown in is provided for each of the wires and and its corresponding electrode or in order to seal the wire portion passing through and its corresponding electrode within the circumferential housing portion of the housing . Each seal system includes for instance packing material or an O ring and serves to prevent leakage of ERF lubricant at that location.

The circumferential housing portion and housing end portions and are made of any suitable metal or metal alloy material such as stainless steel bronze copper zinc etc. Housing end portions and can be joined with circumferential housing portion using threading in housing end portions and that corresponds to threading in circumferential housing portion . Housing end portion has two channels and which can be made e.g. by drilling with commercially available precision drill and then tapping after housing end and O ring support disk are seated into circumferential housing portion in the position shown in . It may be preferable at this point to disassemble to remove all metal shavings resulting from the drilling and tapping and to then reassemble. Screws and and O ring support disks and are made of any suitable metal or metal alloy material such as stainless steel bronze copper zinc etc. O ring support disks and have edges that are machined out to accommodate O rings and as shown in .

Inventive ball bearing apparatus also includes electrorheological fluid lubricant . which pertains to typical second mode inventive practice shows ERF lubricant in the form of an ERF lubricant bath . ERF lubricant is shown in to gravitationally form an ERF lubricant bath . ERF lubricant bath shown in is representative of an ERF lubricant bath that is involved in typical first mode inventive practice. Channels and serve as conduits that permit the lubricant chamber to be at least partially filled with electrorheological fluid lubricant . According to typical first mode inventive embodiments chamber is filled with ERF lubricant to a suitable percentage of the capacity of chamber thereby gravitationally forming an ERF lubricant bath in the lower half of chamber similarly as illustrated in . Channels and also permit the ERF lubricant to be changed when the ERF lubricant has reached the end of its useful operational life. As depicted in channels and are sealed to prevent leakage of the ERF lubricant after its introduction through channels and into chamber . Channels and are bored and tapped with an interior thread pattern that corresponds to the outer thread pattern on screws and respectively.

Electrically nonconductive cylinder is made of any suitable electrically nonconductive material such as a ceramic plastic or resin matrix composite material. Cylinder is dimensioned so that when it is placed in the configuration shown in cylinder encompasses spacer cylinder electrically nonconductive materials and electrodes and outer ceramic race inner race and balls . In particular electrically nonconductive cylinder is circumscriptive with respect to electrodes and and is situated between electrodes and and housing exterior thereby electrically isolating electrodes and from housing exterior and hence from the overall housing . In addition cylinder serves to space O ring support disks and from each other.

 O rings and are made of any suitable elastomeric polymer that does not adversely react either chemically or physically with the ERF lubricant . O rings and should not include an elastomeric polymer with respect to which any of the constituents of the ERF lubricant are miscible or permeable. For instance if the dielectric fluid of the ERF lubricant includes silicone oil then the O rings and should not include a silicone rubber the reason is that the silicone oil of the ERF lubricant will cause the O rings and to swell and leak thereby enabling the ERF lubricant to leak out of inventive bearing apparatus . If the dielectric fluid of the ERF lubricant includes a silicone oil then O rings and may include nitrile neoprene or polyurethane. As another example if the ERF lubricant includes a dielectric fluid of mineral oil olive oil corn oil or vegetable oil then O rings and may include silicone rubber because such dielectric fluids are neither miscible nor permeable with respect to silicone rubber.

Inner race may be made of any suitable metal metal alloy or nonmetallic material. Balls are made of any suitable electrically nonconductive material such as a suitable ceramic material. Outer race is also made of any suitable electrically nonconductive material such as a suitable ceramic material. According to typical inventive practice the balls and the outer race both have a ceramic material composition. The materials of which the balls and the outer race are respectively composed should be sufficient and suitable in terms of hardness and compatibility. For instance according to some inventive embodiments the hardness of the ceramic material of which the outer race is composed is about 85 or higher on the shore D scale. The public literature is replete with teachings about appropriate material compositions of rolling elements used in bearings. The criteria for selecting the outer race material include the suitability for rolling of balls on an outer race made of such material.

Prior to operation of inventive apparatus chamber is filled to a suitable capacity with ERF lubricant i.e. the materials that make up ERF lubricant . The amount of ERF lubricant in chamber is such as to constitute enough ER lubricant to afford complete coating of the inward facing raceway surface of outer race during operation. Power supply is connected to electrodes and for electrifying electrodes and . According to some inventive embodiments power adjustment circuitry is connected to power supply for adjusting the degree of electrification of electrodes and . Power supply is turned on to provide sufficient voltage and current for holding the ERF lubricant on the inward facing raceway surface of outer race . Electrorheological fluid lubricant partially fills chamber so as to form an electrorheological fluid bath in the lower region of chamber . The lower section of the inward facing raceway surface but not the upper section of the inward facing raceway surface is immersed in the electrorheological fluid lubricant bath .

During operation of inventive apparatus balls move into and out of the ER fluid lubricant bath which is situated by force of gravity in the bottom half of the chamber . As balls revolve around the central axis a of shaft shown in FIG. balls each carry some ER lubricant to the upper areas of outer race s inward facing raceway surface . Each revolving ball passes through the electrorheological fluid lubricant bath and carries a quantity of electrorheological fluid lubricant onto the upper section of inward facing raceway surface . Upon electrification of electrodes and an electric field is established between electrodes and so as to retain therebetween some ERF lubricant . That is the electric field from the charges on electrodes and strips the balls of this carried ERF lubricant and holds the ERF lubricant in position between the electrodes and . More and more ERF lubricant is carried by balls to the upper areas of the inward facing raceway surface of outer race so that eventually the entire inward facing raceway surface of outer race is coated with ERF lubricant . Power adjustment circuitry which can include for instance one or more or a combination of one or more resistors potentiometers diodes voltage regulators and or transformers can be modulated so as to adjust the amount of electrical power that is brought to bear on electrodes and thereby adjusting the viscosity and hence the lubricative quality of the ERF lubricant that is retained between electrodes and . Shown in is an active control system including at least one controller such as one or more commercially available programmable logic controllers and at least one sensor . Active control system can be inventively implemented to enhance inventive operation via feedback depending on heat generated by machinery equipment ambient environmental e.g. engine room heat and or rotational speed e.g. in rpm of the shaft . A similar active control system can be inventively implemented as well in second mode inventive practice in third mode inventive practice and in fourth mode inventive practice as shown respectively in in and in . Depending on the inventive embodiment an active control system exercises local and or global control of electrification based on sensory input pertaining to one or more of these or other parameters.

Referring now to and inventive ball bearing apparatus includes electrically conductive outer race electrically conductive inner race electrically nonconductive balls electrorheological fluid lubricant electrically conductive retainer spacer electrical power supply electrode wires and and electrical connector . Balls are spaced apart from each other by retainer . Balls are electrically nonconductive e.g. made of ceramic . Electrical wire and electrical wire via electrical connector connect power supply to outer race and inner race respectively. As shown in electrical connector e.g. a leaf spring or brush is attached at the end of electrical wire and makes electrical contact with the rotating inner race . Inventive ball bearing apparatus also includes a fluid tight housing such as housing shown in and which defines a fluid tight chamber which encloses ERF lubricant balls and retainer and which accommodates the circular revolution of balls . Prior to operation of inventive apparatus chamber is filled to a suitable percentage of its capacity with ERF lubricant for instance so as to form a bath such as ERF lubricant bath shown in .

Retainer inner race and outer race are electrically conductive e.g. made of a metal or metal alloy material that is electrically conductive . Outer race and inner race are made of any electrically conductive material e.g. metal or metal alloy that is suitable for functioning as a bearing race such as a properly hardened e.g. steel alloy or a surface hardened treated e.g. steel alloy. Balls are made of any electrically nonconductive material such as a ceramic material that is suitable for ball bearing applications. Retainer is made of any suitable electrically conductive material e.g. metal or metal alloy such as copper. Electrode wires and include any suitable electrical wire conductor material such as aluminum copper or zinc. Power supply includes any suitable DC or AC electrical power supply. DC power supply series LX model PS LX030P066 11 sold by Glassman High Voltage Inc. of Whitehouse Station New Jersey is but one example of numerous manufacturers and models of commercially available DC power supplies that may be suitable for inventive practice.

The terms spacer and retainer are used interchangeably herein. Retainer may be custom made or may be obtained as an off the shelf item from a commercial vendor. The geometry of retainer is such that it permits the balls to move in circular motion between races and but spaces the balls apart from each other thereby minimizing wear. Retainer is interposed between and proximate but not touching races and so as not to be in electrical contact with races and . Nor are races and in electrical contact with each other. As illustrated in an electrical circuit is constituted by the combination including power supply outer race inner race retainer and ERF fluid .

Electrode wires and are electrically connected to power supply and to races and respectively. Power supply is turned on to energize outer race and inner race . Energizing having commenced ERF lubricant gets trapped within the corresponding electric fields that build up in two regions of the bearing viz. in inner region Rand outer region R. Outward facing raceway surface and inward facing retainer surface are opposite each other. Inward facing raceway surface and outward facing retainer surface are opposite each other Inner region Ris the space between inner race s outward facing raceway surface and retainer s inward facing retainer surface . Outer region Ris the space between outer race s inward facing raceway surface and retainer s outward facing retainer surface . Inventive ball bearing apparatus can be embodied to include power adjustment circuitry including e.g. one or more or a combination of one or more resistors potentiometers diodes voltage regulators and or transformers which can be modulated so as to adjust the amount of electrical power that is brought to bear on outer race and inner race thereby adjusting the viscosity and hence the lubricative quality of the ERF lubricant that is retained between outer race and retainer and between inner race and retainer . The active control system shown in is similar in function to the active control system shown in each of and . Active control system which includes at least one controller e.g. programmable logic controller and at least one sensor e.g. thermometer accelerometer can be inventively implemented in association with power adjustment circuitry to sense one or more parameters e.g. ambient heat machinery heat rotational speed and based on such sensory input to actively adjust the amount of electrical power and hence the viscosity of ERF lubricant on a continuous feedback basis.

The viscosity of the ERF lubricant should be adjusted to being just high enough to permit the ERF lubricant to remain within the two regions Rand R however the viscosity of the ERF lubricant should not be so high as to interfere with the rotation of shaft and inner race . The mechanical energy of the shaft as it turns the inner race in rotational direction r should provide sufficient torque and angular momentum as to force the ERF lubricant within the two regions at the same time the turning of inner race should not be impeded due to excessive viscosity of the ERF lubricant . The overall electric field or otherwise expressed both component electrical fields each corresponding to one of the two regions Rand R should be sufficient but not excessive in order to force the ERF lubricant to stay within the two regions Rand R thereby holding the ERF lubricant within the areas of the bearing that need lubrication.

First mode inventive practice such as exemplified by Example 1 and second mode inventive practice such as exemplified by Example 2 involve the so called Winslow effect. According to inventive practice in which the Winslow effect is manifest an electric field that is generated between two electrodes upon the electrification thereof results in the holding therebetween i.e. between the respective electrode surfaces facing each other of ERF fluid . As distinguished from Examples 1 and 2 the so called edge effects are exhibited in Example 3 which exemplifies third mode inventive practice and Example 4 which exemplifies fourth mode inventive practice .

Reference is now made to and which are illustrative of third mode inventive practice. As shown in each embedded electrode is embedded in outer race and has an electrode tip longitudinally extreme edge that is even flush with the inward facing raceway surface of the outer race . Upon the electrification of two adjacent embeddded electrodes generated are electric field lines of flux that extend beyond the tips of the two adjacent electrodes . As shown in this generation of lines of electric flux results in the holding of ERF fluid within the parameters of influence of the lines of electric flux.

Rolling element bearing apparatus depicted in includes an inner race having an outward facing raceway surface an electrically nonconductive outer race having an inward facing raceway surface plural electrically nonconductive balls situated between inner race and outer race a housing such as housing shown in and that defines a fluid tight chamber ERF fluid and plural embedded electrodes . Balls effect rolling contact with inward facing raceway surface and outward facing raceway surface and revolve in a circular path around the longitudinal axis a of rotating shaft when inner race and outer race are characterized by relative rotational motion e.g. when either one of inner race or outer race is stationary and the other one of inner race and outer race is rotating. Electrodes are embedded in outer race . Wires and connect power supply to embedded electrodes . Prior to operation of inventive apparatus chamber is filled to a suitable percentage of its capacity with ERF lubricant for instance so as to form a bath such as ERF lubricant bath shown in .

Inner race may be made of any suitable metal metal alloy or nonmetallic material. Balls are made of any suitable electrically nonconductive material such as a suitable ceramic material. Outer race is also made of any suitable electrically nonconductive material such as a suitable ceramic material. The guidelines for selecting the electrically nonconductive materials of outer race and balls are similar to those discussed hereinabove with regard to Example 1. Embedded electrodes embedded in electrically nonconductive e.g. ceramic outer race are closely spaced apart from each other so as to be positioned at least approximately radial with respect to longitudinal axis a. According to frequent inventive practice multiple or numerous embedded electrodes are closely spaced apart from each other so that adjacent embedded electrodes are nearly parallel to each other for instance as depicted in . The more closely spaced are the electrodes the more closely their radial orientation with respect to longitudinal axis a approximates side by side parallel orientation with respect to each other. Each embedded electrode has an electrode tip and extends to inward facing raceway surface so that electrode tip is flush with inward facing raceway surface and is exposed to chamber .

Each revolving ball contacts some ERF lubricant and carries a quantity thereof. At least one adjacent pair of electrodes is electrified using power supply which is connected to at least one adjacent pair of electrodes via a wire positive charge and a wire negative charge . Upon the electrification of an adjacent pair of embedded electrodes an electric flux is established between the two embedded electrodes so as to retain some ERF lubrication upon the inward facing raceway surface and between the two embedded electrodes . A lubricative electrorheological fluid coating remains on the inward facing raceway surface between each adjacent pair of electrodes .

According to many inventive embodiments electrodes are positioned around the entire circumference or substantially the entire circumference of outer race akin to the spokes of a wheel for instance as depicted in upon electrification of every adjacent pair of electrodes an electric flux is established between every adjacent pair of electrodes so as to retain some said electrorheological fluid between every adjacent pair of electrodes a lubricative electrorheological fluid coating thereby remaining on the entire circumference or substantially the entire circumference of inward facing raceway . Power adjustment circuitry can be used for adjusting selectively among various adjacent pairs of electrodes the degree of electrification of each adjacent pair of electrodes . Each adjacent pair of electrodes can be individually adjusted in terms of viscosity and hence lubricative quality of electrorheological fluid lubricant retained therebetween. An active control system including at least one controller e.g. programmable logic controller and at least one sensor e.g. thermometer accelerometer can be inventively implemented in association with power adjustment circuitry to take sensory input as to one or more parameters e.g. ambient heat machinery heat rotational speed and to actively adjust electrification based on the sensory input. In the manner of a continuous feedback loop the amount of electrical power and hence the viscosity of the corresponding ERF lubricant that goes to each or every e.g. one adjacent pair some adjacent pairs or every adjacent pair of electrodes is adjusted by active control system working in conjunction with power adjustment circuitry . The power adjustment can be performed collectively as to all electrodes in grouped fashion as to two or more groups of two or more adjacent pairs of electrodes or individually as to each adjacent pair of electrodes .

With reference to and many conventional journal bearings are known to utilize a conventional lubricant between the shaft and the journal bearing. During relatively new operation of a conventional journal bearing the journal bearing and the shaft are concentric coaxial . The interface region i.e. the region between the inward facing surface of the journal bearing and the outward facing surface of the shaft is characterized by uniform thickness. Over time the rotation of the shaft causes the shaft to become non concentric with the journal bearing such as depicted in the interface region thus being characterized by non uniform thickness. As shown in by way of illustration the interface region is significantly thinner in the vicinity of the 8 o clock position. When an area of the interface region becomes too thin boundary layer lubrication or mixed lubrication results. In practice this thinner area of the interface region is the area where the shaft and the journal bearing begin to wear.

With reference to this tendency toward non concentricity of the conventional journal bearing and the shaft is associated with the viscosity of the lubricant. The afore cited esp. on pages 8 114 to 8 120 and Spotts esp. on pages 352 380 provide informative discussion of lubrication and fluid film bearings. As demonstrated by the curve shown in the viscosity of the conventional lubricant plays an important role in the interaction between the shaft and the journal bearing. The abscissa is taken as the dimensionless product G in the following equation 

Generally speaking exhibits four zones of lubricative efficiency viz. Zone I Zone II Zone III and Zone IV. Zone I represents a situation in which the product of the rotation rate of the shaft and the viscosity of the lubricant is low e.g. when both the rotation rate and the lubricant viscosity are low . In Zone I there is insufficient lubrication to provide for full lubrication instead boundary lubrication occurs. Zone II represents a situation in which the product of the rotation rate of the shaft and the viscosity of the lubricant is still low albeit a little higher than conditions for boundary lubrication e.g. when both the lubricant viscosity and the shaft rotation rate are a little higher than conditions for boundary lubrication . In Zone II full lubrication is still not fully achieved instead mixed lubrication occurs. Zone IV represents a situation in which the product of the rotation rate of the shaft and the viscosity of the lubricant is too high e.g. when both the lubricant viscosity and shaft rotation rate are too high . In Zone IV instability and turbulence occur. Zone III represents the best situation only in Zone III when the product of the viscosity of the lubricant and the rotation rate of the shaft is sufficient but not excessive e.g. when both the lubricant viscosity and shaft rotation rate are sufficient but not excessive will full lubrication be achieved.

Accordingly as depicted by the rotating shaft eventually becomes non concentric with the journal bearing. The lubricant layer in the thinner interface region shown in to be in the vicinity of 8 o clock typically becomes thinner. When the lubricant layer becomes too thin boundary layer lubrication or mixed lubrication can ensue. In practical terms this excessively thin area of lubrication is where the wear and tear occurs. Merely for illustrative purposes shows the journal bearing and the shaft to be closer to each other in the vicinity of the 8 o clock position it is to be understood that the skew proximity can occur at any time position e.g. 12 o clock 1 o clock etc. around the generally circular interface region. The main point here is that shaft and journal bearing eventually become non concentric to a degree that boundary lubrication and or mixed lubrication occur s in the area s of the interface region where the interface region is thin i.e. where the separation distances between the outside shaft surface and the inside journal bearing surface are small .

Reference is now made to which illustrates an embodiment of fourth mode inventive practice. Embedded electrodes in this example Example 4 are analogous to embedded electrodes in Example 3 insofar as both kinds of electrodes are embedded in a cylindrical structure that surrounds a shaft. Moreover both the embedded electrodes of Example 4 and the embedded electrodes of Example 3 manifest electrorheological edge effects as distinguished from electrorheological Winslow effect. The edges of Example 4 s embedded electrodes are the longitudinal side face edges in contrast the edges of Example 3 s embedded electrodes are the longitudinal end face edges tips . Thus the embedded electrodes versus are similar to each other in terms of their basic operative principle of electrical and electrorheological physics viz. edge effects but differ from each other in terms of their orientations and edge effect geometries. That is embedded electrodes are radial and perpendicular with respect to the shaft s longitudinal axis a and manifest edge effects at their end edges whereas embedded electrodes are longitudinal and parallel with respect to the shaft s longitudinal axis a and manifest edge effects at their side edges .

Inventive journal bearing apparatus is for use in association with a shaft characterized by a longitudinal shaft axis a. Journal bearing apparatus includes journal bearing member electrorheological fluid and plural electrodes . Journal bearing member is cylindrical electrically nonconductive and characterized by a bearing length. Journal bearing member has an inward facing bearing surface that is characterized by an inner circumference. Shaft has an outward facing shaft surface characterized by an outer circumference which is smaller than the bearing surface s inner circumference. Electrodes are embedded in journal bearing member and are separated from each other so as to be positioned parallel to longitudinal shaft axis a and to each other. According to many embodiments ofl fourth mode inventive practice embedded electrodes run the length or substantially the length of journal bearing member .

According to typical fourth mode inventive practice shaft is required to be electrically nonconductive at least insofar as its relationship with the ERF fluid and the electrodes is concerned. Since most shafts in their original form are made entirely of an electrically conductive e.g. steel or other metallic material it often becomes necessary in practicing the inventive fourth mode to couple with the original shaft a circumferential outside layer of electrically nonconductive material such as electrically nonconductive outside layer shown in . The original shaft thus becomes inventively suitable shaft which includes original shaft and electrically nonconductive outside layer . Electrically nonconductive outside layer thus includes the newly provided outward facing shaft surface the outward facing surface of original shaft is now covered by the electrically nonconductive outside layer . For instance electrically nonconductive outside layer can be provided by sliding an electrically nonconductive e.g. ceramic sleeve over the original shaft . Alternatively the original shaft outside surface can be prepped e.g. by roughening grooving or gnarling and then a fiberglass or other suitable electrically nonconductive fibrous material can be circumferentially filament wound around the original shaft with an epoxy or other suitable electrically nonconductive matrix material.

When journal bearing member is circumscriptively placed with respect to shaft a space interface region exists between inward facing bearing surface and outward facing shaft surface . Electrorheological fluid lubricant is situated in the interface region . Each embedded electrode has an electrode edge and extends at least substantially the bearing length so that the electrode edge is flush with the inward facing bearing surface and is exposed to the interface region . Upon electrification of at least one adjacent pair of embedded electrodes an electric flux is established between the two adjacent embedded electrodes so as to retain some ERF lubricant upon the inward facing bearing surface and between the two adjacent embedded electrodes . A lubricative ERF coating remains on inward facing bearing surface between the two adjacent embedded electrodes .

A power supply is used for electrifying at least one adjacent pair of embedded electrodes . According to typical inventive fourth mode embodiments power adjustment circuitry is used for adjusting the degree of electrification of at least one adjacent pair of embedded electrodes so as to adjust the viscosity and hence the lubricative quality of ERF lubricant that is retained between the two adjacent embedded electrodes . Inventive journal bearing apparatus is typically embodied so that embedded electrodes are positioned around the entire or substantially the entire circumference of inward facing bearing surface . According to such embodiments wherein the electrode embedment is completely or nearly completely circumferential every adjacent pair of embedded electrodes can be electrified so that some ERF lubricant is retained around the entire or substantially the entire circumference of inward facing bearing surface a lubricative ERF coating thereby remaining on the entire or substantially the entire circumference of inward facing bearing surface .

In accordance with frequent practice of the inventive fourth mode electrodes are positioned around the entire circumference or substantially the entire circumference of journal bearing member . Upon electrification of every adjacent pair of electrodes an electric flux is established between every adjacent pair of electrodes so as to retain some said electrorheological fluid between every adjacent pair of electrodes a lubricative electrorheological fluid coating thereby remains on the entire circumference or substantially the entire circumference of inward facing bearing surface . Power adjustment circuitry can be used for adjusting selectively among various adjacent pairs of electrodes the degree of electrification of each adjacent pair of electrodes . Each adjacent pair of electrodes can be individually adjusted in terms of viscosity and hence lubricative quality of electrorheological fluid lubricant retained therebetween. An active control system including at least one controller e.g. programmable logic controller and at least one sensor e.g. thermometer accelerometer can be inventively implemented in association with power adjustment circuitry to take sensory input as to one or more parameters e.g. ambient heat machinery heat rotational speed and to actively adjust on a continuous feedback basis the amount of electrical power and hence the viscosity of the corresponding ERF lubricant that goes to each or every adjacent pair of electrodes . The power adjustment can be performed collectively as to all electrodes in grouped fashion as to two or more groups of two or more adjacent pairs of electrodes or individually as to each adjacent pair of electrodes .

According to usual inventive principle control of the electric field emanating between adjacent embedded electrodes is concomitant with control of the viscosity of the ERF lubricant situated between the adjacent embedded electrodes . The present invention is uniquely capable of controlling the viscosity of the ERF lubricant in order to promote better performance. Inventive electrical control of viscosity can achieve full lubrication modality under conditions in which it would not otherwise be achieved. For instance if the rotation rate n of shaft has been deliberately decreased for an operational reason such decrease in rotation rate n can be compensated for by electrically increasing the viscosity Z of the ERF lubricant . Full lubrication modality rather than boundary modality or mixed lubrication modality is thus achieved by increasing the Z component in the afore noted equation G Z N P.

The viscosity of all of the ERF lubricant can be controlled alternatively the viscosity or viscosities of one or more portions of the ERF lubricant can be controlled. The inventive practitioner can select areas of ERF lubricant that are to have higher or lower viscosities. Such viscosities can be caused to vary among plural e.g. several or many areas of the ERF lubricant . Selective electrification among plural adjacent pairs of embedded electrodes is featured by many embodiments of inventive journal bearing apparatus whereby power adjustment circuitry is capable of individually adjusting the degree of electrification for at least one or every adjacent pair of embedded electrodes . The present invention s electrification of one or more specific areas of ERF lubricant can controllably alter the viscosity of the ERF lubricant within such area s . Such selectivity may be especially propitious for inventive embodiments in which the electrode embedment is completely or nearly completely circumferential.

Similarly as illustrated in for a conventional journal bearing an inventive journal bearing apparatus may have a propensity toward non concentricity of journal bearing member and shaft . Inward facing bearing surface may initially be concentric with outward facing shaft surface but then tend over durations of operation to be non concentric with outward facing shaft surface . Power adjustment circuitry inventively utilized for instance in association with an active control system that includes at least one controller e.g. programmable logic controller and at least one sensor e.g. thermometer or accelerometer is capable of selectively adjusting the viscosity of ERF at one or more different locations in interface region so as to restore concentricity of inward facing bearing surface with outward facing shaft surface . Accordingly under certain operating conditions the inventive practitioner can succeed in forcing shaft back to a concentric geometric position with respect to bearing member thereby encouraging full lubrication modality and discouraging mixed lubrication and boundary lubrication modalities of inventive journal bearing apparatus .

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

