---

title: System and method for delivery of business information through an electronic address book
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to deliver business information to users through users' online address books. Data aggregation servers associate individual businesses with one or more unique identifiers. The data aggregation servers collect, store and periodically update business information relating to individual businesses from a variety of sources, such as the businesses themselves and third party sources, such as online publications and message boards. The data aggregation servers store the information in association with the unique identifier. Electronic address book applications hosted on user devices store address book entries for individual businesses in local address book databases. The entries for each business include the unique identifier, and the online address book applications use the unique identifier to retrieve business information relating to individual businesses from the data aggregation servers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738648&OS=08738648&RS=08738648
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08738648
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100628
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate in general to systems that provide information relating to businesses to end users and more particularly to providing current business information using address book applications hosted on user devices or provided by application service providers.

Information on businesses changes frequently both in terms of the information the business wants to broadcast to attract potential customers and third party information that provides ratings reviews and comments on the business. In the case of the business itself the establishment may move to a different physical address or change the telephone email or web address that the business uses for customer interaction from time to time. On a more frequent basis the business may change its hours of operations products and services carried and provide special announcements or promotional messages including time sensitive specials or coupons. In the case of third party sources of information the ratings from rating services and most recent customer or professional reviews may change every day.

Typically unique business and advertising information is provided to users when a user looks up a business through for example a search service and obtains for example promotional items reviews or coupons. Oftentimes however the latest information is only available if the user explicitly looks up the information. Such information does not however persist on user devices such as for example an element of the customer s address book.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described that may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods provide the most current information on businesses to users mobile and online address books by providing a feed from each business as well as third party sources to users who are current or potential customers of such businesses. In at least one embodiment the contact information held in the customer s address book is expanded to include unique business fields including a field that stores a unique business identifier or key. The mobile and online address books use the identifier or key to request updates from a source of business and advertising information on an as needed basis.

In one embodiment the user selects an address book application on the user s mobile device to display the address book . In one embodiment the user then selects an entry for a business of interest causing first view to display on the user s mobile device . In one embodiment the address book application allows the user to page between the three views and .

View of the example entry displays basic information about a hypothetical business ABC Home Decor. In one embodiment such basic information includes the business s address business hours phone number website and email address. Basic information in view could additionally include any other type of information that serves to define or identify the business such as business category or product line information. Basic information in view could additionally include additional text graphic or image contact information such as fax numbers and additional phone numbers. Basic information in view could also include additional information relating to hours of operation such as holiday schedules and so forth.

View further displays a unique identifier for the business. In one embodiment the unique identifier uniquely identifies the business on the address book and on one or more information sources accessible to the address book application over a network such as the Internet. In one embodiment the unique identifier could take any form such as an arbitrary grouping of numbers and or alphabetic characters. In one embodiment the address book application uses the unique identifier to update information in the address book by requesting updates from one or more information sources as described in detail below. In one embodiment views and do not display the unique identifier and the user is unaware of the existence of the identifier.

In one embodiment a service provider assigns the unique identifier to the business such as for example a data aggregator that collects information on a large number of businesses. In one embodiment the business selects and registers the unique identifier with a service provider such as for example a data aggregator that collects information on a large number of businesses such as an online directory service.

View of the example entry displays sales and promotions currently offered by the business which could include coupons and advertisements including web links as illustrated. Promotions could additionally employ any other type of online or offline sales or promotion techniques now known or later developed. For example such promotions could include announcements or invitations to special events such as wine tastings or opening parties. Such promotions could include hyperlinks with special online coupon codes for online sales.

View of the example entry displays reviews of the business from various sources. The reviews could originate from any source where users journalists or any other type of online user is able to enter comments about a business. The illustrated view displays two reviews the first from a message board the second from a local newspaper. The example reviews displayed in view simply include the review source and the text of the review. View could also display any other type of information relating to the reviews. For example view could display the date and time of the review. If a review is derived from an online source where a longer review is available view could include a hyperlink to the original review. If there are a large number of reviews of the business view could extend to multiple pages. In one embodiment view provides access to all reviews relating to the business. In one embodiment view only displays reviews entered within a defined time period for example the last three months. In one embodiment view displays a fixed number of reviews for example the ten most recent reviews. In one embodiment view only displays an average user rating and provides a link to a full review or set of reviews.

The information shown in views and and its presentation is purely illustrative. The information displayed in an address book entry could include any type of information that relates to businesses that is available from the business itself or from any third party source. Furthermore while the online address book is shown on a user s mobile device in it is understood that the address book could be implemented on other types of network connectable electronic devices such as desktop computers laptops and PDAs.

In one embodiment the address book application on the user s mobile device periodically updates the information displayed in views and to keep the information current. In one embodiment an online address book application implemented on the user s mobile device periodically retrieves updates to information relating to businesses in the address book from one or more data sources using the unique identifiers associated with such businesses. In one embodiment the online address book application retrieves current information relating to a particular business when a user accesses the address book entry for that business. In one embodiment the online address book application retrieves current information relating to a particular business when a user takes a user interface action with respect to the business s address book entry such as for example clicking on an Update button. In one embodiment the online address book application retrieves current information relating to all businesses in the address book after the lapse of a time interval e.g. 24 hours when the user powers on the device or takes some other user interface action.

In one embodiment a data aggregation service such as an online directory is aware of address books that include entries for one or more businesses and the online directory service or data aggregator pushes updates to entries for such businesses directly to user s mobile devices without being polled. In one embodiment where updates to directories are pushed to users mobile devices an address book application running on the user s mobile device notifies the user of the update through for example a notification alert that may be a graphical flag or indicator as part of the address book itself or application utilizing information from the address book or via separate text or email messages informing the user of the update.

In one embodiment the information displayed in views and originates from a variety of sources including online directory services online publications message boards and so forth. In one embodiment an online address book application implemented on the user s mobile device retrieves address book information directly from the originating source. In one embodiment an online address book application retrieves address book information from a single data aggregator wherein the data aggregator collects information relating to a large number of businesses from a variety of sources. In one embodiment the address book application further enables users to add or edit user defined fields in address book .

In one embodiment the businesses in address book control at least a portion of the information in views and either directly or indirectly. For example a data aggregation service could allow businesses to edit and update basic information in view relating to the business whenever the business s address phone number hours website or email address changes. In one embodiment a data aggregation service allows businesses or advertising services acting on behalf of such businesses to add update and delete promotional information.

In one embodiment the businesses in address book do not control at least a portion of the information in views and . For example reviews of businesses may originate from third parties such as online publications or message boards. Such reviews may be favorable or unfavorable but are of little value to end users if they can be edited or otherwise controlled by the reviewed businesses. In such embodiments a data aggregation service allows third parties to add reviews of businesses directly to a review database or such reviews could be extracted by the data aggregation service from other online sources such as online newspapers or discussion groups.

In one embodiment a business can be associated with multiple unique identifiers where each unique identifier identifies a specific class of customers or potential customers of the business. For example a business could be associated with one identifier directed to business users e.g. business to business and another identifier directed to ordinary consumers. In another example one identifier could be associated with consumers in general and another associated with preferred or long standing customers. The use of multiple unique identifiers could allow businesses to direct different types of information to different classes of customers for example a business might offer special promotions to preferred customers only.

In one embodiment an online address book application implemented on the user s mobile device retrieves address book information using the unique identifier . The identifier may only be known to a single data source such as a data aggregation service. Alternatively the identifier could be known to multiple data sources from which the online address book retrieves information. In one embodiment a directory service or data aggregator pushes information that includes unique identifiers for the businesses to which the information relates to the online address book application implemented on the user s mobile device .

In one embodiment an address book application or similar application enters entries for specific businesses to a user s address book which is stored on a user s mobile device using any technique suitable for entering receiving or downloading electronic information. In one embodiment the address book application enters entries to a user s address book when a user browses an online directory service or data aggregation service and selects one or more businesses. In one embodiment the address book application enters entries to a user s address book when a user enters a search via a local search application and selects one or more businesses displayed by the search application. In one embodiment the business itself or an entity acting on behalf of the business emails address book entries to users as an attachment. In such an embodiment the user could for example then open the attachment and save the entry to the user s address book . In all of the above embodiments the address book entry created for a specific business could include the unique identifier for the business as described in detail above which is obtained from the data source.

In one embodiment an online address book application implemented on a user s mobile device uses existing entries in a user s address book and or entries that the user added manually to the address book to search for matching businesses in a directory service or data aggregation service. In one embodiment an address book application automatically adds the business to the address book entry including the unique identifier when it finds an exact match e.g. an exact match on a name phone number and or address . In one embodiment if an address book application finds a near match it prompts the user confirm the match for example by a prompt such as If this is the same business click here to stay up to date with the latest information on business X . In one embodiment the address book application on the user s mobile device searches for matches to new address book entries as soon as a user enters a new address book entry. In one embodiment an address book application on the user s mobile device searches for matches to new address book entries periodically for example every 24 hours.

While the above examples are presented with respect to an address book application local to a user s mobile device it is understood that the above concepts apply to any application that stores or accesses information relating to one or more businesses. Such applications could be local to the user s device or could be hosted by one or more servers accessible to the user s device over a network such as the Internet. Such servers could be physical servers maintained by or on behalf of an application service provider or additionally or alternatively virtual servers maintained for example as cloud based servers. Furthermore while a dynamically updated address book may prove most valuable to businesses in general the system could also support dynamically updated entries for private individuals such as a user s friends relatives and or business associates.

In one embodiment the data aggregation servers collect information relating to the businesses directly from the businesses over a network such as the Internet and store the data in the business information databases . In one embodiment the data aggregation servers provide a user interface or API that allows businesses to transmit information relating to the business to the data aggregation servers. In one embodiment the data aggregation servers access corporate websites maintained by or on behalf of the businesses and collect information without any direct interaction with the businesses . In one embodiment the data aggregation servers index all data relating to a specific business by a unique identifier as described above in detail above with respect to .

In one embodiment one or more applications provide information relating to one or more of the businesses to users . In one embodiment user devices such as mobile devices or user computers such as laptops and desktops implement such applications. Such applications could include for example a local address book application such as that shown in . In one embodiment user application servers such as those provided by application services providers implement applications that provide information relating to one or more of the businesses and users access them over the network . In one embodiment user application servers host a user address book or contact list application that is accessible over a network such as the Internet where the actual data can reside entirely in local storage operatively connected to application servers or reside both in the application server and storage associated with other end points accessible over the network through a data synchronization process. Such storage could be storage associated with other service providers for example service providers offering cloud based storage facilities.

In one embodiment users use address book applications implemented on user devices and or or user application servers to store and access information related to one or more businesses. In one embodiment an address book database not shown stores the information locally on the user device and or . In one embodiment the information is stored in a database that is remote from user devices and or but accessible over the network for example local storage not shown associated with user application servers or any other network accessible storage such as cloud based storage not shown . In one embodiment every entry in a user s address book database includes a unique identifier for businesses in the address book database and the address book application uses the unique identifier to request updated information from the data aggregation servers relating to businesses identified by the unique identifier via the network as described in detail above.

In the system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices that are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system that maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment the data aggregation servers and or the user application servers of as well as corporate websites and third party data sources are implemented using one or more data processing systems as illustrated in . In one embodiment user devices such as user mobile devices and user computers that host or provide access to business information applications such as an address book application are implemented using one or more data processing system as illustrated in .

In some embodiments one or more servers of the system illustrated in are replaced with the service of a peer to peer network or a cloud configuration of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or cloud based server system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described above can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

In one embodiment of the user applications include an address book application that acquires and stores information relating to businesses in an address book database stored in the memory . In one embodiment every entry in the address book comprises information relating to a specific business including a unique identifier for the each business.

In one embodiment the address book application implements a user interface displayed on the presentation device that provides functionality similar to or identical to the user interface illustrated in . In one embodiment the address book application uses the communication device to communicate with data aggregation servers such as that shown in of to retrieve data relating to businesses stored in the address book database stored in local memory .

In one embodiment users use the user input device to enter contact information into the address book database via functionality provided by the address book application such as that described in detail above with respect to . The user input device may include a text input device a still image camera a video camera and or a sound recorder etc.

In the first operation of the method one or more processes running on the server collect information relating to the business from data sources having information on the business. In one embodiment one or more processes on the server collect information directly from the business or entities acting on behalf of the business. In one embodiment the processes running on the server automatically retrieve information from sources that are always or usually online such as the business s website. In one embodiment the processes running on the server automatically retrieve information on a periodic basis such as every 24 hours. In one embodiment the business expressly transmits information to the server on a periodic basis. For example the server provides a user interface such as a web page or an API that enables the business or an entity acting on behalf of the business to transmit information relating to the business to the server. For example in one embodiment businesses provide basic contact and address information to the data aggregation service. Such information could additionally include address phone number hours website or email address changes.

Businesses or entities acting on behalf of businesses such as public relations firms and or advertising firms can transmit additional information to the server. Such information could be any information relevant to the business s customers or potential customers. In one embodiment such information includes data relating to the business s promotions including advertisements and coupons which can include any combination of electronic data such as text graphics media assets and or hyperlinks. In one embodiment businesses or entities acting on behalf of businesses periodically transmit updates to the information relating to the business to the server. In one embodiment one or more processes running on the server access the business s corporate website or FTP sites and download information relating to the business in an automated fashion.

In one embodiment one or more processes running on the server collect information relating to the business from one or more third party sources e.g. third party sources of . Such information could include any type of information relating to the business. In one embodiment the processes running on the server automatically retrieve information from sources that are always or usually online such as online publications message boards and discussion forums. In one embodiment processes running on the server automatically retrieve information on a periodic basis such as every 24 hours. In one embodiment one or more processes running on the server provide a user interface and or API that enables third parties to transmit information relating to the business to the server. In one embodiment one or more processes running on the server access information delivery points provided by third parties such as websites or APIs to download information relating to the business from the third party in an automated fashion. In one embodiment the business could provide a level of authorization to third party sources to provide information for one or more of the unique IDs for that business. Such information could indicate a level of certification for the information by the business itself and could then be rendered as an additional element to the customer viewing such information.

In the second operation of the method one or more processes running on the server store the information relating to the business on a business information database in association with the unique identifier for the business. In one embodiment the unique identifier specifically identifies a particular business and is unique to that business. The unique identifier could comprise any combination of alphanumeric characters special characters symbols or other tokens that can be electronically represented. In one embodiment a process running on a server creates and assigns the unique identifier to the business when information for the business is added to the database for the first time. In one embodiment two or more unique identifiers are assigned to the same business.

Where more than one unique identifier relates to a single business different information could be stored relating to each unique identifier for example each unique identifier could relate to different promotional information e.g. regular vs. preferred customers . In one embodiment one or more processes running on the server create and maintain the business information database on computer readable media accessible to the server. The computer readable media could be local to the server or accessible to the server over a network e.g. a LAN WAN or cloud based resource . The form of the information database could be any form suitable for storing and retrieving the information stored therein such as for example a relational database.

In the third operation of the method one or more processes running on the server receive a request from a user application for the information relating to the business. In one embodiment the request comprises the unique identifier for the business. In one embodiment the user application requests the information when a business is added to a user s address book. The request could additionally specify other parameters to limit the information retrieved such as for example a defined time period or category of information. In one embodiment the user application requests the information when a user displays an entry relating to the business in the user s address book. In one embodiment the user application requests the information periodically for example every 24 hours.

In the fourth operation of the method one or more processes running on the server retrieves the information relating to the business from the business information database using the unique identifier. In one embodiment all information relating to a business is directly or indirectly indexed by the business s unique identifier. In one embodiment the processes running on the server only retrieve information updated within a defined time frame. The defined time frame could be specified in the request from the user application or could be determined by determining the last time information relating to the business was retrieved by the server on behalf of the requesting user. In one embodiment processes running on the server only retrieve information relating to a specific category of information such as for example promotions. The specific category of information could be specified in the request from the user application or could represent a default value used by the processes running on the server that is always used unless specifically overridden by other request parameters.

In the fifth operation of the method one or more processes running on the server transmit the information relating to the business to the requesting application. The information can be transmitted using any method now known or later to be developed in the art. In one embodiment the processes running on the server format the transmitted information in a form configured for updating contact information for the business in an address book application on a user mobile device. In one embodiment the processes running on the server format the transmitted information in a form configured for updating contact information for the business in an address book application on an application server.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data that when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations that are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

