---

title: Igniter with integral pressure sensing line
abstract: An igniter device for a combustor system includes an igniter housing and a pressure sense passage. The igniter housing surrounds an electrode and an insulating body. The igniter has a tip to be positioned within a chamber for combustion. The pressure sense passage is attached to an exterior surface of the igniter housing. The pressure sense passage is configured to direct fluid to a pressure sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08733078&OS=08733078&RS=08733078
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08733078
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101110
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

Igniters are used to provide effective sparks in a combustion chamber of a gas turbine engine. An igniter typically comprises an electrode extending through the center of a cylindrical grounded igniter tube. A ceramic insulating core is located between the electrode and the igniter tube to insulate the electrode and prevent grounding the electrode. The igniter mounts to a diffuser casing surrounding the combustion chamber and the operative tip of the igniter typically projects slightly into the combustion chamber. When an electrical signal is sent through the electrode a spark is produced at the operative end which ignites the fuel in the combustion chamber.

A pressure sensor is typically located downstream of the igniter to sense the fluid pressure feeding the combustion chamber. The pneumatic pressure sensor includes a sense tube that extends through the diffuser casing. The tip of the sense tube is located in an annular chamber formed between the diffuser casing and the combustion chamber so that gases feeding the combustion chamber are directed through the sense tube to the pneumatic sensor. Many components are required to mount the pressure sensor to the combustion system. For example several brackets fittings and tube assemblies are used to attach the pressure sensor to the combustion system. These components add additional assembly weight and cost to the gas turbine engine.

An augmenter or afterburner system includes an igniter and pressure sensor similar to a combustor system. The igniter of an afterburner is positioned slightly within the casing wall of a chamber for combustion and the pressure sensor is positioned in a chamber formed between a diffuser casing and the chamber for combustion. The afterburner system further includes a second pressure sensor to measure the pressure within the afterburner s chamber for combustion. This second pneumatic sensor includes a second sense tube that extends through the diffuser casing and the casing of the chamber for combustion. The tip of the second sense tube is located within the afterburner s chamber for combustion. The second sense tube directs gases from the afterburner s chamber for combustion to the second pressure sensor to determine the burner pressure. The pressure within the afterburner s chamber for combustion is used by the engine control system for several different operations including controlling the fuel air mix ratio. Similar to the first pneumatic sensor many components are required to mount the second pneumatic sensor to the augmenter system. These components add assembly time weight and cost to the afterburner system.

An igniter device for a combustor system includes an igniter housing and a pressure sense passage. The igniter housing surrounds an electrode and an insulating body. The igniter has a tip to be positioned within a chamber for combustion. The pressure sense passage is attached to an exterior surface of the igniter housing. The pressure sense passage is configured to direct fluid to a pressure sensor.

Combustion chamber is spaced radially inwards from diffuser . Combustion chamber is also annular. Inner surfaces are spaced apart to define annular passage there between.

Fuel nozzle assembly supplies fuel to combustion chamber . Fuel nozzle assembly includes nozzle support structure and fuel nozzle . Fuel nozzle assembly is mounted on outer surface of diffuser and extends through diffuser . Fuel nozzle is supported by nozzle support structure and extends into annular passage of combustion chamber .

Igniter includes igniter body and operative tip . Igniter body extends through the walls of diffuser and combustion chamber so that operative tip is located within annular passage . As explained further below igniter produces a spark at operative tip . In use fuel nozzle sprays fuel into combustion chamber and igniter produces a spark at operative tip to ignite the fuel within combustion chamber .

Pressure sensor is typically used in combustor system to measure the pressure of gases entering combustion chamber . A sense tube directs fluid or gases from the annular passage to pressure sensor . The sense tube extends through diffuser and has an end located in annular passage . Tubing connects the sense tube to pressure sensor . As described further below the sense tube is incorporated into and integral with igniter .

Igniter tube can be a hollow body having first end and operative tip opposite first end . As described above operative tip is positioned within annular passage . Electrode can extend axially through the center of igniter tube from first end to operative tip . Electrode is exposed at operative tip . Insulator surrounds electrode and separates electrode from igniter tube . Igniter tube surrounds electrode and insulator . In use an electrical signal is sent through electrode to produce a spark at operative tip and ignite fuel within annular passage .

Sense tube attaches to the outer surface of igniter tube . Sense tube and igniter tube are coaxial and concentric. For example sense tube can be a hollow tube having a larger diameter than igniter tube so that igniter tube fits within sense tube . Chamber or pressure sense chamber is formed between the inner surface of sense tube and the outer surface of igniter tube . Sense tube extends through the wall of diffuser and terminates at a location in annular passage . Sense tube includes first end and second end . Second end is located within annular passage and first end is located outside annular passage .

Holes are formed in sense tube at second end . Pressure fitting extends from first end and is in communication with chamber . Pressure fitting is connected to a pressure sensor as known to one skilled in the art. Holes enable gases from annular passage to enter chamber and flow to first end of sense tube . At first end the gases are directed to a pressure sensor through tubing or piping attached to pressure fitting . Thus the pressure of the gases feeding combustion chamber is measured using sense tube . The measured pressure can be used by the engine controller to regulate fuel flow to combustion chamber .

Igniter attaches to diffuser by flange nut threaded fitting and seal . Flange radially extends from the outer surface of sense tube . For example flange can be a machined feature of sense tube . Alternatively flange can be welded or brazed to sense tube . Alternatively flange can be investment cast into sense tube .

Threaded fitting is integral with or attaches to outer surface of diffuser . Nut fits over flange and attaches to threaded fitting . Seal can be positioned between flange and threaded fitting to seal the connection between these components. Flange nut and threaded fitting provide the ability to rotate pressure fitting into the proper orientation and alignment with external tubing connecting to the pressure sensor. Sense tube and chamber are integral with igniter tube in igniter so that a single component is mounted to diffuser . In igniter sense tube and igniter tube are coaxial and chamber is formed between sense tube and igniter tube . Flange and nut connect the integral igniter to diffuser .

Sense tube is attached to the outer surface of igniter tube . In one example sense tube is attached to the outer surface of igniter tube by methods such as but not limited to welding and soldering. Sense tube and igniter tube are approximately parallel to one another and extend along separate axes as illustrated in . Chamber or pressure sense chamber is defined by the inner walls of sense tube .

Sense tube includes first end and second end . First end is adjacent or proximate first end of igniter . Pressure fitting is connected to sense tube near first send and is in fluid communication with chamber .

Second end is opposite first end . Second end is located in annular passage . Hole is formed in the end of sense tube so that second end is open. Gases from annular passage enter sense tube through hole and flow to pressure fitting where the gases are transferred to a pressure sensor by tubing. In this way the pressure of the gases feeding combustion chamber is measured using pressure sense tube .

Igniter is mounted to diffuser with flange nut threaded fitting and seal . Flange nut threaded fitting and seal function in a manner similar to flange nut threaded fitting and seal of . Flange nut threaded fitting and seal allow igniter to be rotated into the proper orientation and alignment to connect pressure fitting with external tubing. In igniter sense tube and chamber are integrated with igniter tube to form a single component. Sense tube is attached to the exterior surface of igniter tube and is parallel to igniter tube . Flange and nut attach igniter to diffuser .

A second pressure sensor may also be used to measure the pressure within the combustion chamber i.e. burner pressure . The second pressure sensor includes a second sense tube that extends through the diffuser and combustion chamber casings and has an end located in the combustion chamber. As described further below the first sense tube and second sense tube are incorporated into and integral with igniter.

Insulator and electrode are arranged within igniter tube as described above. Tube is coaxial with igniter tube . Tube has a larger inner diameter than the outer diameter of igniter tube so that igniter tube slides within tube . Tube and igniter tube are sized so that the inner surface of tube abuts the outer surface of igniter tube .

First chamber and second chamber are formed in the inner surface of tube and are attached to an outer or exterior surface of igniter tube . As shown in first chamber and second chamber are formed between the outer surface of igniter tube and a surface of tube . First chamber and second chamber are substantially parallel to igniter tube and to each other. Although first chamber and second chamber are illustrated as located 180 degrees apart first chamber and second chamber may be positioned at any angle relative to one another.

First chamber has first end and second end . First end is located proximate first end of igniter tube . Second end is located between the casings of combustion chamber and diffuser . First chamber does not extend to operative tip .

First pressure fitting is connected near first end and is in fluid communication with first chamber . Tube is connected to first chamber near second end . Tube is in fluid communication with first chamber and extends between chamber and hole formed in tube . Hole is positioned within annular passage . In use fluid from annular passage flows through hole to tube . Tube directs the fluid to first chamber which connects to pressure fitting . Tubing attaches to pressure fitting which directs the fluid to a pressure sense. In this way pressure in annular passage is measured using first chamber . Annular passage contains gases fed to combustion chamber .

Second chamber has first end and second end . First end is proximate first end of igniter tube . Second pressure fitting is connected to second chamber near first end and is in fluid communication with second chamber .

Second end of second chamber is positioned within annular passage . Second end of second chamber is open. In use gases from annular passage flows through the open second end through second chamber to second pressure fitting . Second pressure fitting attaches to tubing which directs the gases to a pressure sense. In this way the pressure of annular passage is determined. This pressure is also known as the burner pressure.

First chamber and second chamber are separate chambers. Gases from annular passage feed first chamber and gases from annular passage feed second chamber . In this way gases from annular passage are fed exclusively to first pressure fitting and gases from second annular passage are fed exclusively to second pressure fitting .

Igniter is mounted to diffuser by flange nut threaded fitting and seal . Flange nut threaded fitting and seal function in a manner similar to flange nut threaded fitting and seal of . In igniter first chamber and second chamber are integrated with igniter tube to form a single component for instillation on diffuser . Flange can also be integrated with igniter tube .

Insulator and electrode are arranged in igniter tube as described above. First sense tube is attached to the outer surface of igniter tube . First sense tube is approximately parallel to igniter tube . First sense tube extends from a location proximate first end of igniter tube to a location between the casings of diffuser and combustion chamber . First chamber is defined between the walls of first sense tube as shown in .

First sense tube includes first end and second end opposite first end . First end is proximate first end of igniter tube and opposite operative tip . First pressure fitting is connected to and extends away from first sense tube . First pressure fitting is in fluid communication with first chamber .

Second end is open and is positioned in annular passage . In use fluid or gases from annular passage flows through the open end of second end through first chamber to first pressure fitting . First pressure fitting is connected to a pressure sensor. In this way first sense tube is used to measure the pressure of annular passage .

Second sense tube is also attached to the outer surface of igniter tube and is approximately parallel to igniter tube . First sense tube and second sense tube can be attached to igniter tube by methods such as but not limited to soldering and welding. Second chamber is defined between the walls of second sense tube as shown in . Although first sense tube and second sense tube are illustrate 180 degrees apart the positions of first sense tube and second sense tube relative to one another may be varied.

Second sense tube extends from a position proximate first end to a position within combustion chamber . Second sense tube includes a first end and second end . Pressure fitting is attached to second sense tube proximate first end and is in fluid communication with second chamber . Second end is open. In use gases from annular passage flow into second chamber by entering the open second end . The gases then flow to second pressure fitting which directs the gases to a pressure sensor.

Igniter connected to diffuser by flange nut threaded fitting and seal . Flange nut threaded fitting and seal function in a manner similar to flange nut threaded fitting and seal of . In igniter first sense tube and second sense tube and thus first chamber and second chamber are integrated with igniter tube such that only one component is mounted to diffuser . Integrating first sense tube second sense tube and igniter tube creates a single component that serves dual purposes by combining the igniter and pressure probe. This integration reduces the number of mounting components required reducing costs and assembly time and reduces the number of penetrations in diffuser .

Although igniter igniter igniter and igniter have been described above with respect to use in a combustion chamber igniters and can also be used in an afterburner or thrust augmenter. An afterburner s operation is much like the operation of a combustion chamber. In an afterburner fuel is added to exhaust gases after they have passed through the turbine section. At this point the exhaust still contains uncombined oxygen. The resultant temperature increase raises the velocity of the exiting gases and boosts engine thrust. An afterburner section includes a diffuser and an afterburner where combustion occurs. One skilled in the art will recognize that the diffuser described above can be a diffuser of a combustor system or of an afterburner system and that the combustion chamber described above refers to either the chamber for combustion in a combustor system or in an afterburner system.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

