---

title: System, method and apparatus for contrast enhanced multiplexing of images
abstract: A volume holographic imaging system, apparatus and/or method enables the projection of a two-dimensional (2D) slice of a four-dimensional (4D) probing object A 4D probing source object is illuminated to emit or scatter an optical field. A holographic element having one or more recorded holograms receives and diffracts the optical field into a diffracted plane beam having spectral information. A 4-ftelecentric relay system includes a pupil filter on the relayed conjugate plane of the volume hologram and images the pupil of the volume hologram onto the front focal plane of the collector lens. A collector lens focuses the diffracted plane beam to a 2D slice of the 4D probing source object. The focused 2D slice is projected onto a 2D imaging plane. The holographic element may have multiple multiplexed holograms that are arranged to diffract light from the corresponding slice of the 4D probing source object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360611&OS=09360611&RS=09360611
owner: The Arizona Board of Regents on Behalf of the University of Arizona
number: 09360611
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101008
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 250 306 entitled Phase Contrast Multi Focal Microscope filed Oct. 9 2009 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 264 432 entitled Wavelength Coded Multi Focal Microscope filed Nov. 25 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 381 369 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Contrast Enhanced Multiplexing of Images filed Sep. 9 2010 each application in its entirety is incorporated herein by reference. This application is related to International Application PCT US2010 051975 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Phase Contrast Enhanced Multiplexing of Images filed Oct. 8 2010 and International Application PCT US2010 051981 entitled System Method and Apparatus for Wavelength Coded Multi Focal Microscopy filed Oct. 8 2010 each application in its entirety is incorporated herein by reference.

The United States government has rights in this application as a result of financial support provided by governmental agencies in the development of aspects of the disclosure. Parts of this work were supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health Grant No. R21CA118167 and the National Science Council Contract No. NSC 97 2917 1 564 115.

This disclosure relates generally to imaging systems methods and apparatus and more particularly to volume holographic imaging systems methods and apparatus that obtain enhanced images from multiple depths within an object.

Microscopic imaging systems are beneficial for biomedical and clinical applications. Volume holographic microscopy VHM has been developed as a microscopic instrument for biological samples. Volume imaging systems have many useful applications such as spectral and three spatial dimensional biological imaging known as four dimensional 4D imaging endoscope imaging systems spectrometers and the like.

VHM incorporates multiplexed holographic gratings within a volume hologram to visualize structures at different focal planes in an object. Each focal plane within the object is projected to a different lateral location on the camera. Thus the entire object volume is imaged slice wise onto the camera without the need for electrical or mechanical scanning. However many objects of interest are composed of weak phase features with poor contrast and are barely observable with VHM.

Embodiments taught herein relate generally to imaging systems methods and apparatus and more particularly to volume holographic imaging systems methods and apparatus that obtain enhanced images from multiple depths within an object.

An exemplary contrast enhanced multiplexing image system taught herein obtains contrast enhanced information from multiple depths within an object without scanning. A pupil filter is introduced into the Fourier plane of a 4 f telecentric relay system to enhance weak phase information from a volume holographic imaging system. The exemplary system can be expanded to include additional multiplexed holographic gratings within a single volume hologram and hence simultaneously image more object slices onto non overlapping locations on an imaging plane without scanning.

An exemplary microscope as taught herein includes focusing lenses a holographic element relay lenses a pupil filter and an imaging plane. The lenses holographic element and pupil filter together project an image onto the imaging plane. The pupil filter is advantageously located at the conjugate plane of the holographic element s pupil. The holographic element is a volume hologram with one or more multiplexed hologram gratings therein. The multiplexed holographic gratings are located at the Fourier plane of the microscope and are Bragg matched to a different focal plane within an object and simultaneously projected to a different lateral location on the imaging plane. In the exemplary embodiments the holographic element is recorded in phenanthrenquinone doped poly methyl methacrylate.

An exemplary volume imaging system for imaging a source object as taught herein includes a holographic element collector optics and a pupil filter. The holographic element is capable of recording one or more holograms of the source object and is configured to receive and diffract an optical field emitted or scattered from the source object onto one or more diffracted plane beams. The collector optics are configured to focus each of the one or more diffracted plane beams to a two dimensional slice of the source object and simultaneously project the focused two dimensional slice along an optical path onto an imaging plane. The pupil filter is disposed along the optical path to reduce the DC component in the spatial frequency domain of the focused two dimensional slice of the source object.

An exemplary method for imaging an object in four dimensions and real time in which an emitted or scattered optical field of an object is received by a holographic element which diffracts the received optical field into one or more diffracted plane beams. The diffracted plane beams are focused into a two dimensional slice of the object and filtered. The filtered two dimensional slice is projected onto an imaging plane. When two or more slices of the object are projected the slices are simultaneously projected to non overlapping regions of the imaging plane. The filtering step is performed using a pupil filter. The diffraction is based on one or more Bragg degeneracy properties.

In accordance with various embodiments taught herein are volume holographic imaging systems that employ a pupil filter to obtain contrast enhanced images from multiple depths within an object. An exemplary volume holographic imaging system can obtain contrast enhanced information from multiple depths within biological samples without scanning. An exemplary volume holographic imaging system enhances weak phase information of the displayed images which are from different depths within biological samples by introducing a pupil filter at the plane conjugate to the volume holographic pupil during imaging. This enhances weak phase features from multiple depths. An exemplary volume holographic imaging system images the entire object volume in real time without electrical or mechanical scanning and provides enhanced edge and contrast information at all slices simultaneously. The volume hologram imaging system may be a microscope spectroscope endoscope and the like and may be known as an enhanced volume holographic microscope E VHM .

A mouse colon placed in the exemplary volume holographic imaging system as taught herein results in two depth resolved images separated by approximately 50 m simultaneously displayed on an imaging plane. With the enhanced volume holographic method for contrast enhancement the exemplary imaging system improves contrast of objects over the conventional VHM methods.

In some embodiments the nominal inter beam angle in air is 68 is 1 and z is 50 m. In the same embodiment the recording medium of volume hologram is phenanthrenquinone doped poly methyl methacrylate PQ doped PMMA and the collimated laser beam is an argon ion Ar laser operating at a wavelength of approximately 488 nm.

Other materials may be used as a recording medium. By way of example Aprilis ULSH 500 LiNbOincluding Zn doped LiNbOand DuPont photopolymers may be used as recording material. See Atsushi Sato et al Applied Optics vol. 42 pp. 778 784 2003 Yasuo Tomita et al Optics Express vol. 14 pp. 5773 5778 2006 and Raymond K. Kostuk et al Applied Optics vol. 38 pp. 1357 1363 1999 . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each material has a range of sensitivity for recording and that another source of electromagnetic radiation with appropriate wavelength in the corresponding range of sensitivity may be used for recording. With proper fabrication the multiplexed holographic gratings within a volume hologram can operate at wavelengths longer than the recording wavelength of signal arm and reference arm . See Y. Luo P. J. Gelsinger J. K. Barton G. Barbastathis and R. K. Kostuk Opt. Lett. Vol. 33 566 568 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety . In the same embodiment the diffraction efficiencies of the two multiplexed gratings are approximately 40 and approximately 35 the thickness of the PQ doped PMMA recording material is approximately 1.5 mm and the numerical apertures of lens and lens are 0.65 and 0.55 respectively.

In an exemplary embodiment the multiplexed volume hologram is located at the Fourier plane of the objective lens . Similarly the imaging plane is located at the Fourier plane of the collector lens . In the same embodiment the distance fis the distance between the second focal plane and the objective lens . Those skilled in the art would appreciate that the grating within multiplexed volume hologram that is Bragged matched to the second focal plane is located a distance of ffrom the objective lens . Relatively positioned between the multiplexed volume hologram and the collector lens is a relay system composed of relay lenses and . Pupil filter is located such that it images the pupil of the multiplexed volume hologram onto the front focal plane of the collector lens . The distance fis the distance between the pupil filter and the collector lens which is the same distance between the collector lens and the imaging plane .

In exemplary embodiments the source of electromagnetic radiation may be a plurality of coherent light sources a broadband light source such as a dispersed white light source with chromatic foci a plurality of light emitting diodes or the like. The imaging plane may be part of a charge couple device or camera which may be connected to or part of a computer projector or other such device. In some embodiments the pupil filter may be any amplitude filter resulting in enhanced contrast information such as an opaque mask gray scale mask or the like. In some embodiments the use of an opaque mask may result in a significant loss in intensity of the resulting image but this may be corrected by using a cooled charge coupled device with high dynamic range as part of the imaging plane .

Advantageously the exemplary imaging systems taught herein increase the identification of structures such as the turbid media depicted in . The resulting images are contrast enhanced two dimensional and observable in real time. Furthermore exemplary imaging systems as taught herein can be applied to both fluorescence and non fluorescence imaging and collects both spectral and spatial information of an object without mechanically scanning in the X Y Z direction for a given field of view.

Although the teachings herein have been described with reference to exemplary embodiments and implementations thereof the disclosed methods systems and apparatus are not limited to such exemplary embodiments implementations. Rather as will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art from the description taught herein the disclosed methods systems and apparatus are susceptible to modifications alterations and enhancements without departing from the spirit or scope hereof. Accordingly all such modifications alterations and enhancements within the scope hereof are encompassed herein.

