---

title: Global presence
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing presence information for a principal without a presence or other user agent. More specifically, embodiments of the present invention provide for publication of presence information independent of a presence agent or other user agent, presence network, or presence server as well as subsequent ways for authorized presence watchers to subscribe to presence and receive notification or query presence information for a principal. Stated another way providing presence information for a principal can comprise receiving presence information related to a first entity from a device without a presence agent at a presence information service and providing the presence information related to the first entity from the presence information service to a second entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509790&OS=09509790&RS=09509790
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09509790
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101201
---
The present application claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 286 976 filed on Dec. 16 2009 by Maes et al. and entitled Global Presence of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to methods and systems for providing presence information for a principal and more particularly to providing presence information for a principal without a presence or other user agent.

Today various multimedia networks allow users through user agents on various devices to publish their presence information. Presence is defined here and conventionally defined as a transient state of a principal that can be used by other entities to make a decision about how to best communicate with the principal. A principal can be defined as an entity that has an identity that is capable of providing consent and other data and to which authenticated actions are done on its behalf. Presence information for a principal can be obtained by another entity using a subscribe publish model wherein a principal publishes its presence to a presence server which in turn notifies authorized subscribers of the information or change of information. Additionally or alternatively presence information can be obtained by interrogating or querying the presence server.

However current approaches to providing and or obtaining presence information for a principal require participation in an IM or multimedia messaging network or a presence network or set of presence networks with a presence server enabler or presence aggregation. Further devices participating in such networks need to include appropriate user agents or applications playing the role of user agents i.e. a Presence Network Agent PNA . These current approaches do not address or provide an ability to query presence information without being part of the presence network or without the appropriate application or presence agent. Hence there is a need for improved methods and systems for providing presence information for a principal.

Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing presence information for a principal without a presence or other user agent. According to one embodiment a method of providing presence information for a principal can comprise receiving presence information related to a first entity from a device without a presence agent for the presence system at a presence information service and providing the presence information related to the first entity from the presence information service to a second entity which may or may not have a presence agent.

In one implementation a set of presence information for one or more principals can be maintained with the presence information service e.g. in a database or other repository. The set of presence information can include at least the presence information related to the first entity. Maintaining the set of presence information can comprise for example updating the set of presence information based on the received presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device can comprise providing a notification of a change in the presence information for the first entity. Additionally or alternatively a request for the presence information related to the first entity can be received by the presence information service. In such a case providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can be performed in response to the request. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity either in the form of a notification of in response to a request can be based on one or more policies e.g. for authentication authorization etc.

In another implementation maintaining the set of presence information can comprise providing the presence information from the presence information service to a presence server of a presence network. For example the set of presence information can be maintained by the presence server e.g. in a database or other repository. The presence information service can provide the presence information related to the first entity to the presence server. The presence server can in turn update the set of presence information based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can then comprise providing the presence information related to the first entity from the presence server to the second entity via the presence information service.

In yet another implementation the presence information related to the first entity can be received and maintained at a presence server of a presence network. A set of presence information can be maintained for one or more principals with the presence server e.g. in a database or other repository. The set of presence information can include including at least the presence information related to the first entity. The set of presence information can be updated with the presence server based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. The presence information related to the first entity can be provided from the presence server to the presence information service e.g. periodically in response to a request or based on some other occurrence condition etc.

In any of the various implementations receiving presence information related to the first entity can comprise receiving the presence information related to the first entity according to a constrained schema or as unconstrained data. The presence information related to the first entity either constrained or unconstrained can be received in one or more of a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication. Similarly providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can comprise providing one or more of a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page. For example providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device can comprise providing the presence information related to the first entity via a web service.

According to another embodiment a system can comprise a first entity device without a presence agent a second entity device and a presence information service. The presence information service can be adapted to receive presence information related to a first entity from the first entity device and provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device. For example the presence information service can be implemented as a web service.

In one implementation the presence information service can be adapted to maintain for example in a database or other repository a set of presence information for one or more principals including at least the presence information related to the first entity. Maintaining the set of presence information can comprise updating the set of presence information based on the received presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device can comprise providing a notification of a change in the presence information for the first entity. Additionally or alternatively the presence information service is further adapted to receive a request for the presence information related to the first entity from the second entity device. In such a case the presence information service can be adapted to provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device in response to the request. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity either in the form of a notification of in response to a request can be based on one or more policies e.g. for authentication authorization etc.

In another implementation the system can further comprise a presence server of a presence network. In such a case the presence information service can maintain the set of presence information by providing the presence information from the presence information service to the presence server. For example maintaining the set of presence information can comprise maintaining the set of presence information with the presence server e.g. in a database or other repository wherein the presence information service provides the presence information related to the first entity to the presence server and wherein the presence server updates the set of presence information based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. Further the presence server can provide the presence information related to the first entity to the presence information service e.g. periodically in response to a request or based on some other occurrence condition etc. The presence information service can in turn provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device.

In yet another implementation the system can comprise a presence server of a presence network which can receive the presence information related to the first entity from the first entity device and maintain a set of presence information for one or more principals including at least the presence information related to the first entity. For example the presence server can be adapted to update the set of presence information based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies. The presence server can be adapted to provide the presence information related to the first entity to the presence information service which in turn can provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity.

In any of the implementations receiving presence information related to the first entity can comprise receiving the presence information related to the first entity according to a constrained schema or as unconstrained data. The presence information related to the first entity either constrained or unconstrained can be received in one or more of a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication. Similarly providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can comprise providing one or more of a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

The ensuing description provides exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing an exemplary embodiment. It should be understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits systems networks processes and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in a figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination can correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data. A code segment or machine executable instructions may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for providing presence information for a principal without a presence or other user agent. More specifically embodiments of the present invention provide for publication of presence information independent of a presence agent or other user agent presence network or presence server as well as subsequent ways for authorized presence watchers to subscribe to presence and receive notification or query presence information for a principal. Stated another way providing presence information for a principal can comprise receiving presence information related to a first entity from a device without a presence agent at a presence information service and providing the presence information related to the first entity from the presence information service to a second entity.

Presence is defined here and conventionally defined as a transient state of a principal that can be used by other entities to make a decision about how to best communicate with the principal. A principal can be defined as an entity that has an identity that is capable of providing consent and other data and to which authenticated actions are done on its behalf. Therefore a principal may be a computing device but it may also be a person across multiple computing devices or even an organization a service or a group of persons. Presence information for a principal can be obtained by an entity using a subscribe publish model wherein a principal publishes its presence to a presence information service which in turn notifies authorized subscribers of the information or change of information. Additionally or alternatively presence information can be obtained by interrogating or querying the service. As noted above embodiments of the present invention allow the principal to publish presence information without use of a presence or other user agent and the presence information service need not be implemented on a presence server or presence network. Rather the presence information service can be implemented for example as a web service accessible via any of a number of different means and in fact the converse can be to get presence details without a presence agent.

Embodiments of the present invention allow a user to publish presence information as presence attributes according to a constrained schema or in a Binary Large Object Basic large object BLOB or unconstrained set of data. For example messages can be sent or posts can be made from a publishing principal to a presence information service. For example these messages can include but are not limited to a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication to the presence information service via any one or more of a variety of possible communication channels. Similarly providing the presence information related to the principal to another entity either as a notification or in response to a query can comprise providing one or more of a variety of different messages including but not limited to a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page via any one or more of a variety of possible communication channels.

One or more policies or sets of polices can be applied when presence information is published by the principal and or when the presence information for the principal is provided to another entity either as a notification or in response to a query. That is one or more policies can be maintained and applied by the presence information service or other system s when receiving and or providing the presence information. Such policies can be used for example to perform authentication and or authorization to determine who can access the presence information what presence information can be distributed how it can or should be transformed before being distributed etc.

Systems for providing presence information for a principal as described herein can be implemented in a number of different ways without departing from the scope of the present invention. In one implementation for example no presence server or presence network is used. In such a case the system includes a presence information service such as a web service e.g. SOAP or REST or a web form to fill that can receive publication of presence information for the principal maintain the presence information for example in a database or other repository and provide the presence information to other entities for example as a blob or web page. In another exemplary implementation a presence server of presence network can be used by the presence information service to maintain the presence information for the principal. In this example the presence information service receives the presence information from the principal and then publishes that information to the presence server. The presence information service can then provide the presence information from the presence server to another entity either as a notification or in response to a query. In yet another example a presence server of presence network can be used to maintain the presence information for the principal wherein the presence server receives publication of the presence information from the principal. The presence information service can then provide the presence information from the presence server to another entity either as a notification or in response to a query. Each of these different implementations and various additional details of these and other embodiments of the present invention will be described below with reference to the figures.

In some embodiments the system may also include a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks such as GSM GPRS EDGE UMTS 3G 2.5 G CDMA CDMA2000 WCDMA EVDO etc.

The system may also include one or more server computers which can be general purpose computers and or specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. . One or more of the servers e.g. may be dedicated to running applications such as a business application a web server application server etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers .

The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers business applications and the like. The server s also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers . As one example a server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

In some embodiments an application server may create web pages dynamically for displaying on an end user client system. The web pages created by the web application server may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server. Similarly the web server can receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to an application and or a database server. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to various types of servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

The system may also include one or more databases . The database s may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example a database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and or in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10g that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed. Software of computer system may include code for implementing embodiments of the present invention as described herein.

It should be noted that the device of the first entity and the device of the second entity need not include a presence agent or other user agent. Furthermore in this system no presence server or presence network is used. Rather the presence information service which can be implemented as a web service for example can receive for example via publication module publication of presence information for the principal i.e. from the device of the first entity maintain the presence information for example in a database or other repository and provide the presence information to the device of the second entity for example as a blob or web page via publication module .

Receiving presence information related to the first entity can comprise receiving the presence information related to the first entity according to a constrained schema or as unconstrained data. The presence information related to the first entity either constrained or unconstrained can be received in one or more of a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication. Similarly providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can comprise providing one or more of a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page.

Stated another way the presence information service can be adapted to maintain for example in a database or other repository a set of presence information for one or more principals including at least the presence information related to the first entity . Maintaining the set of presence information can comprise updating the set of presence information based on the received presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies for example via policy enforcement module . Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device can comprise providing a notification of a change in the presence information for the first entity. Additionally or alternatively the presence information service is further adapted to receive a request for the presence information related to the first entity from the second entity device . In such a case the presence information service can be adapted to provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device in response to the request. Providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity either in the form of a notification or in response to a request can be based on one or more policies enforced by policy enforcement module e.g. for authentication authorization etc. That is one or more policies can be maintained and applied by the policy enforcement module of the presence information service when receiving and or providing the presence information. Such policies can be used for example to perform authentication and or authorization to determine who can access the presence information what presence information can be distributed how it can or should be transformed before being distributed etc.

Again receiving presence information related to the first entity can comprise receiving the presence information related to the first entity according to a constrained schema or as unconstrained data. The presence information related to the first entity either constrained or unconstrained can be received in one or more of a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication. Similarly providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can comprise providing one or more of a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page.

Stated another way the system can further comprise a presence server of a presence network. In such a case the presence information service can maintain the set of presence information by providing the presence information from the presence information service to the presence server . For example maintaining the set of presence information can comprise maintaining the set of presence information with the presence server e.g. in a database or other repository wherein the presence information service provides the presence information related to the first entity to the presence server and wherein the presence server updates the set of presence information based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies . Further the presence server can provide the presence information related to the first entity to the presence information service e.g. periodically in response to a request or based on some other occurrence condition etc. The presence information service can in turn provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity device . Again maintaining the set of presence information can comprise updating the set of presence information based on the received presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies of the presence information service and or policies of the presence server .

Again receiving presence information related to the first entity can comprise receiving the presence information related to the first entity according to a constrained schema or as unconstrained data. The presence information related to the first entity either constrained or unconstrained can be received in one or more of a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an email message an Instant Message IM a forum post a blog post a document upload or other communication. Similarly providing the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity can comprise providing one or more of a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page.

Stated another way the system can further comprise a presence server of a presence network which can receive the presence information related to the first entity from the first entity device and maintain a set of presence information for one or more principals including at least the presence information related to the first entity . For example the presence server can be adapted to update the set of presence information based on the presence information related to the first entity and one or more policies . The presence server can be adapted to provide the presence information related to the first entity to the presence information service which in turn can provide the presence information related to the first entity to the second entity via publication module and based on one or more policies .

The received presence information can be saved or published by the presence information service or presence server depending upon the implementation as described above. Also as noted above saving or publishing the presence information can be based on one or more policies applied by the presence information service and or presence server as described above. That is one or more policies can be maintained and applied by the presence information service or other system s when receiving and or publishing the presence information. Such policies can be used for example to perform authentication and or authorization of the publisher etc.

The presence information related to the first entity can be provided from the presence information service to a second entity. As noted above and depending upon the implementation the presence information can be provided to the second entity from the presence information service or the presence server via the presence information service. Providing the presence information related to the principal to another entity either as a notification or in response to a query can comprise providing one or more of a variety of different messages including but not limited to a Rich Site Summary RSS feed an email message a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message an Instant Message IM or a web page via any one or more of a variety of possible communication channels. The presence information can be provided in the form of a notification to one or more subscribers or in response to a request from another authorized entity. Further providing the presence information can be based on the application of one or more policies. Such policies can be used for example to perform authentication and or authorization to determine who can access the presence information what presence information can be distributed how it can or should be transformed before being distributed etc.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

While illustrative and presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

