---

title: Method of and system for presenting enriched video viewing analytics
abstract: A method of and system for presenting enriched video viewing analytics is presented. A method of presenting enriched statistical and analytical information includes receiving a catalog of a plurality of content items. Each content item has associated metacontent characterizing the content item. The method also includes receiving and storing operations of a user for interacting with one or more of the content items. The method further includes determining use and/or viewing statistics for, for example, the content items, metacontent associated with the content items, the numbers and types of devices viewing the content items, subscriber information, household information, and/or viewer demographic information for past and present time periods. The method also, optionally, includes estimating the likelihood of future user interaction operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09166714&OS=09166714&RS=09166714
owner: Veveo, Inc.
number: 09166714
owner_city: Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100910
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 444 entitled Method of and System for Presenting Enriched Video Viewing Analytics filed Sep. 11 2009 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to analytics associated with audio video content items and more specifically to providing statistical and analytical information on past present and predicted future viewing and user interaction operations as well as providing a structured metacontent system for content items.

The information regarding the subscribers and households that at any time are tuned to a television station or program interacting with a video on demand VOD asset or watching an internet video can be economically very important to content providers advertisers and service providers. Also important is information regarding the subscribers ongoing operations e.g. play pause rewind and or fast forward operations and the video frame s involved in the operations at that time.

In another aspect a method of determining interaction analytics for user interactions with a catalog of audio video content items is presented. The method includes providing a predefined collection of content identifiers for identifying content items based on characteristics of the content items and providing access to a catalog of content items. A plurality of the content items of the catalog are associated with metacontent describing a corresponding content item. The method further includes analyzing the metacontent associated with at least one of the plurality of content items of the catalog and associating at least one content identifier with said at least one content item based on the metacontent associated with said at least one content item. The method also includes monitoring user interactions with the content items of the catalog and forming historical records of said interactions. The historical records include at least one content identifier associated with the content items with which the user interacted. The method further includes determining interaction analytics for at least one of a set of content items of the catalog and or a set of users having interacted with the content items of the catalog based on the historical records of user interactions and based on at least one specified content identifier.

In yet another aspect the method further includes identifying a type of device the user is using to interact with the content items. The determining the interaction analytics for the set of users having interacted with the content items includes determining at least one of a number of and a set of a specified type of device the users are using to interact with content items during a specified period of time. Optionally the specified period of time is a current period of time.

In a further aspect the specified period of time is a past period of time and the method further includes estimating at least one of a number of and a set of a specified type of device users will use during a future period of time to interact with content items based on the interaction analytics determined for the past period of time.

In yet a further aspect determining the interaction analytics includes determining at least one of a number of and a set of users performing at least one specified interaction during a specified period of time. Optionally the specified period of time is a current period of time.

In another aspect the specified period of time is a past period of time and the method further includes estimating at least one of a number of and a set of users who will perform the specified interaction with content items during a future period of time based on the interaction analytics determined for the past period of time.

In still a further aspect the determining interaction analytics includes determining at what playback position in a content item a specified user was interacting with said content item during a specified period of time. The content item being specified by the at least one specified content identifier. Optionally the specified period of time is a current period of time.

In another aspect the method further includes presenting a portion of the content item corresponding to the determined playback position.

In a further aspect the interaction analytics for the set of users having interacted with the content items includes determining a set of content item preferences for at least one of the users.

In yet another aspect the method further includes determining a time during which the at least one of the users is interacting with the content items of the catalog and presenting an advertisement for at least one content item based on the set of content item preferences for the at least one user and based upon at least one of a content identifier associated with said advertized content item and the metacontent associated with said advertized content item.

In another aspect a method of presenting enriched statistical and analytical information includes receiving a catalog of a plurality of content items. Each content item has associated metacontent characterizing the content item. The method also includes receiving and storing operations of a user for interacting with one or more of the content items. The method further includes determining use and or viewing statistics for for example the content items metacontent associated with the content items the numbers and types of devices viewing the content items subscriber information household information and or viewer demographic information for past and present time periods.

In a further aspect the method includes estimating the likelihood of future user interaction operations based on the received interaction operations and metacontent associated with the content items.

In yet another aspect named entities are associated with at least one of the content items based on the metacontent associated with said content item. The information associated with the named entities complies with a predetermined information hierarchy.

In still a further aspect the statistics determined include one or more of the number and set of viewing devices currently interacting with the network the number and set of subscribers and or households corresponding to any one or more device s the identity and enriched tag and or metacontent information associated with any one or set of content items the current interaction operation and video frame metacontent corresponding to each device operating on a particular content item or subset of items at a designated time the actual image and or video stream or link thereto corresponding to a video frame displayed and or downloaded to each device operating on a particular content item or set of content items at a given time the enriched tags associated with the past interaction operations of each device subscriber and or household statistical weights associated with each device subscriber and or household wherein the statistical weights are correlated with a particular device subscriber and or household based on learning preferences from past interaction operations such as viewing history demographic information and or subscription information of each household associated with one or more particular devices.

An illustrative embodiment of the present invention provides methods of and systems for determining statistical and analytical information based on user interactions with a system that provides audio video content to a user. The statistical and analytical information can include for example past present and predicted future content consumption by a user and user system interaction operations. In at least one implementation a structured metacontent system for content items is provided. As used herein the present state of a device and or system can include the last known state of the device and or system. Further as used herein audio video content means content having at least one of audio or video content. Thus for example audio video content includes televisions programs and movie which have both audio and video content as well as music which has audio content only.

In an illustrative implementation service provider servers include one or more home media servers that are used to provide content items directly to a presentation device and or other user devices for presentation. In another implementation one or more home media servers are separate from service provider servers but are able to receive content items from servers . The home media server can be located in a user s home or other location remote from other service providers servers. The home media server can provide a search and or storage service that allows user devices to find particular content items. The content items can include music audio video content e.g. movies television shows web clips etc. still images and other types of content. Once found the content items can be directly served to a presentation device for listening and or viewing or the content items can be transferred to another device for later consumption by the user.

Content items of any of multiple known formats can be simultaneously stored in the home media server . For example music can be in the form of WAV AIFF MP3 WMA and or other types of files. Still images can be in the form of GIF JPEG PNG and or other types of files. Live television broadcasts e.g. over the air or through a network connection can be provided through the home media server as can content items stored on a Personal Video Recorder device. A Digital Video Recorder function can be performed by the home media server . Moreover any number of content items can be presented in a collection style format. For example multiple still images can be presented in the form of a slide show or several songs can be grouped and presented in an album format.

Upon a user interacting with the service provider network the service provider servers receive and log each interaction operation and or command. In addition the servers can optionally respond as appropriate to each operation e.g. if content is requested the servers transmit the requested content. However the servers are not required to serve the content items requested by the user. Further still the servers can receive a record of interaction operations and or commands that have been temporarily stored in a different device. For example in a television system an STB initially receives the user s tuning command and responds by tuning the television to the appropriate channel. The STB also logs the tuning command and transmits a record of the tuning action along with other user interactions to the servers at a later time. In an embodiment including the home media server described above the home media server logs the interaction operations and commands for later transmittal to the servers . In other implementations of the service provider network the servers log television tuning operations including digital video recorder DVR operations video on demand system interactions and or internet video click operations from for example an STB and or computer or mobile devices . The servers also log these and other operations in real time and store the information in logs for near instantaneous data. This information is transmitted to an event processing system described in greater detail below.

The event processing system also includes a universal smart tagging subsystem . The universal smart tagging subsystem includes one or more databases for the storage and retrieval of information. The actual arrangement and structure of the databases described herein is not intended in a limiting sense but is merely illustrative. The universal smart tagging subsystem includes a database of named entities each of which is associated with a globally unique identifier GUID . The named entities include known entities topics and or content items or collections with which metacontent is associated. For example the named entities can include famous or popular personalities e.g. actors sports heroes politicians and or musicians musical groups sports teams sports tournaments or leagues movies television shows scientific topics and or political topics. The foregoing list is illustrative only as other types of entities are within the scope of the invention. As described in more detail below one advantage of the use of the name entities is to permit an accepted identifier to be established for the entity.

The database of named entities is formed from sources of information that are known to be or have been designated reliable sources of information for a particular topic. For example ESPN websites and databases can provide named entities and associated information for sports related topics the IMDb website and databases can provide named entities and associated information for movie related topics and the Gracenote databases can provide named entities and associated information for digital entertainment e.g. music . The sources are merely illustrative as other information sources both public and private e.g. amazon.com Wikipedia and Last.FM can provide sources of information to use for named entities and associated information. Moreover the database of named entities is constantly updated and improved in the sense that metacontent and popularity estimates for existing named entities may be modified to reflect the present status of the entities. Moreover new named entities are added to the database as they are discovered. For example as a new movie is advertised it can be added as a named entity to the database in the universal smart tagging subsystem .

Metacontent that describes or is otherwise associated with the named entities is then associated with the named entities in the universal smart tagging system . The metacontent that becomes associated with the named entities depends on the named entity itself. For example if a particular named entity is a movie then the genre of the movie character names actor names cities in which the movie takes place famous quotes other keywords etc. are associated with the named entity. In contrast if the named entity is an athlete then the sport played the athlete s team awards received etc. are associated with the named entity.

Meanwhile shows an illustrative process for creating and or augmenting the database of named entities. A new source of potential named entity candidates is processed and or a previously processed source of named entities is reprocessed to identify named entity candidates from the source s step . Each candidate is checked to determine if it is a duplicate of a named entity already present in the named entity database step . If the new candidate is not a duplicate of an existing named entity it is assigned a GUID and it and its associated metacontent are added to the event processing system databases step . If the candidate is already present in the named entity database then the metacontent associated with the candidate is added to the event processing system databases and associated with the existing named entity step .

The universal smart tagging subsystem receives current past and future listings of content items from television EPG VOD and or internet video sources and determines for the metacontent descriptions for each program asset video and or listing in those sources certain additional rich tags . In the described implementation the rich tags are the named entities that have an association in the event processing system with metacontent that matches the metacontent found the aforementioned listings. Thus in an illustrative implementation shown in the metacontent for each item in a television EPG listing VOD listing Internet video listing and or walled garden i.e. access controlled content is correlated with the named entity information in the universal smart tagging subsystem process so that relationships between items of the listing and named entities are created so as to populate an enhanced listings database . In other words the rich tags to be associated with the television program are determined by using intelligent heuristics to match each metacontent or set of metacontent in the listing with the universal repository of metacontent descriptions for movies television shows and or episodes which are in turn associated with named entities. Thus the universal smart tagging subsystem and associated rich tags enable consistent and structured categorization description and characterization of each content item. The same is true outside the television space.

In an illustrative implementation the intelligent heuristics used to associate content items and their metacontent with named entities includes a set of rules developed from an analysis of large collections of content items their associated metacontent and capturing the patterns exhibited in the collections. These rules can then be applied on multiple sets of listings information. In addition the rules can be formed on the basis of the types of information included in professionally edited video metacontent as well as and in contrast to user generated collections of metacontent. For example one pattern discovered in such an analysis is that professionally edited video metacontent typically contains the entire title of the content item. In contrast user generated collections of metacontent may only include a partial title. Thus finding a partial match between a full title in metacontent associated with a named entity and a partial title in metacontent associated with the content item of a listing would still permit an association between the named entity and the content item to be formed.

Other rules can be formed based on monitoring the behavior of users of content provider systems over time. Such a collection of rules enables the associations created by embodiments of the present invention to adapt as user content search behavior changes. For example by monitoring the search strings submitted by users of a VOD system when searching for movies it has been discovered that users commonly employ Roman numerals in their search string when searching for a movie that is a sequel. Thus content items that have metacontent describing the content item as a movie and a sequel can be associated with an appropriate Roman numeral named entity.

A further example of creating a rule based on user content search and selection behavior is based on the observation that users may often forget the title of a particular movie television show and or video series. However the user more often recalls the names of the actors actresses and or characters featured in the movie show and or series. Thus a rule is employed that forms an association between a named entity that is a full proper title of an item or series and the content items themselves based on the names of actors actresses and or characters being present in the metacontent associated with the content item.

For example if a particular internet video content item is listed on line as Bart and Homer the universal smart tagging subsystem will associate a named entity The Simpsons as the correct title of the video item. The system makes this association because the characters Bart and Homer are the names of two main characters in the metacontent associated with the named entity The Simpsons a television show present in the named entity database. In addition to title information the universal smart tagging subsystem can associate tags with content items for all actors associated with the content item any topics related to the listing or subject matter of the listing and or any genre information characterizing the content item. Such a consistent and complete tagging system increases the accuracy of the determination of system statistics and analytics as set forth in more detail below.

The foregoing rules are by no means exhaustive of the rules that can be employed. Rather the rules described above are merely illustrative of the types of rules can that be developed by analyzing large collections of content items their associated metacontent and capturing the patterns exhibited in the collections as well as monitoring user content search and content selection behavior. Moreover rules can be applied individually and or in the aggregate with other rules. In other words an association can be made between a named entity and a content item simply by satisfying one rule alone. In addition or in the alternative each rule can contribute a weight as to whether or not a particular named entity content item association is to be formed. The weights contributed by all the applied rules are then combined and the association is created if the combined value exceeds a predetermined threshold.

The event processing system further includes a persistent video metacontent database . The persistent video metacontent database stores an association between content item identifiers the metacontent of content items listed in the television EPG VOD and or internet video listings and the corresponding computed rich tags from the universal smart tagging subsystem . The persistent video metacontent database is populated from the output of the metacontent processing and generation of the rich tags in the universal smart tagging subsystem . The persistent video metacontent database stores this information for both past and present content items thereby enabling complete system analytics to be determined at any later time.

The event processing system also includes a persistent video availability database that stores an association between content item identifiers and their corresponding television schedule channel information VOD availability schedules rates subscription information Internet availabilities and other such scheduling and availability data. This availability database is populated by receiving and processing the television EPG listings VOD listings and or Internet video listings. The persistent video availability database retains past scheduling availability rate and other such data for content items that may no longer be presently available to enable later analytics generation as described below.

The event processing system also optionally includes a persistent household database for maintaining a map of each device identifier to a particular household identifier. For example the persistent household database can include records that represent an association between a particular STB device and a particular physical address. This association can be included in the persistent household database upon a user registering for a content provider service or upon receiving the STB. Such information enables the event processing system to provide statistics and analytics regarding viewership on a household level. Thus one can discover a high correlation between 1 certain television channels television programs and or genres of content items and 2 particular neighborhoods and or other geographic designations. The persistent household database retains the device identifier to a household identifier association for past associations as well as present associations.

The event processing system may optionally include a persistent demographics database for maintaining a map of each household identifier to a demographic record or profile of those residents in the household. For example the persistent demographics database can include an association between 1 a physical address of a household 2 and the number of ages of and or genders of the members of the household. In addition other types of demographic information can be provided e.g. household income number of cars owned etc. This information can be obtained from third party sources that obtain and or track such information. Alternatively a content or service provider deploying implementations of the systems and method described herein can be the source of such information. Thus the persistent demographics database enables the event processing system to generate statistics and analytics concerning what content items are being viewed by households of a certain income for example. The persistent demographics database retains past as well as present demographic information and household associations. In addition a unique identifier i.e. a household identifier can be associated with or used in place of the physical address discussed above.

The event processing system may optionally further include a persistent video and image database for maintaining for one or more content items an image related to the content item a portion of the content item a frame identifier within the content item and or a link to an image or a video stream of the corresponding portion of the video. The persistent video and image database retains such links images and or video stream for past as well as present content items. Such an image can be used for example when presenting analytics and or other statistical information about the content items. Also the single frames and or the portions of video content having the highest number of views can be provided and or presented.

The correlations enable the creation of a complete viewing behavior history on a user by user or device by device basis. For example television tune events VOD trick mode events e.g. fast forward pause rewind type events and or internet video selections become associated with the named entities underlying the selected content or content being operated on at the time in step . Also metacontent associated with the named entities and or items from the enhanced listings database can be associated with the user events. Thus the actual content experienced watched and or heard when the content was experienced actions taken during the content presentation at what point during the presentation the actions were taken etc. all become associated with a particular user or device e.g. mobile device STB etc. and stored in the subscriber events database .

The event processing system further includes a real time query processing system . The real time query processing system cooperates with the other components of the event processing system to enable the generation and reporting of past and present statistics and analytics. The real time query processing system can provide information on the current state of the service provider network as a whole. For example the system can provide a report on the numbers of particular types of devices e.g. television sets versus handheld devices versus desktop computers currently viewing content items or a genre based breakdown of all content currently being served by the entire network .

Also the real time query processing system can provide a report on the current state of a portion of the network e.g. all devices currently viewing or otherwise interacting with a particular content item or tuned to a particular channel. Further still the real time query processing system can provide a report on the current state of a particular household or device. In this context state can have the same meaning given above as well as any trick mode actions currently being performed. In the context of a particular content item state can be an indication of the number of viewers of the content item. For example the real time query processing system can further determine enriched metacontent information metacontent information associated with content items via a named entity association and rich tags associated with one or more designated content items. The real time query processing system can also determine the identity of devices and or households that have interacted with or are currently interacting with a specified one or more content items and or particular portions of the one or more content items. The content items can optionally be specified according to metacontent and or rich tags an optional past timeframe can also be provided.

The real time query processing system can also determine the number and set of device identifiers for each type of device currently interacting with the network the number and set of subscriber identifiers and or household identifiers corresponding to any one or more device identifiers and or the identity and enriched tag and or metacontent information associated with any one or set of content items e.g. television program VOD asset and or internet video . The real time query processing system can further determine the current interaction operation e.g. play pause rewind and fast forward and video frame metacontent corresponding to each device operating on a particular content item or subset of items at a designated time the actual image and or video stream or link thereto corresponding to a video frame displayed and or downloaded to each device operating on a particular content item or set of content items at a given time and or the enriched tags associated with the past interaction operations e.g. tuning clickstream history and or other operation of each device subscriber and or household.

The real time query processing system can also determine statistics associated with each device subscriber and or household. Because the system receives continuous state information for all devices and or users the system enables the determination of various weighting factors relative to particular content consumed as well as metacontent associated with the content. For example by using the named entities and or rich tag associations the system can determine how many minutes of James Bond movies a particular STB has consumed in a given interval because each particular James Bond movie will have associated metacontent that identifies it as a James Bond move. The same is true for any of the other named entities e.g. Red Sox games quantum physics programs audio video content featuring Val Kilmer music by Elvis Presley etc. Further still the system can determine weighted statics for the type of content consumed based on the associated metacontent of the content items presented e.g. 50 television 30 movies and 20 music.

In an illustrative implementation the statistical weights are correlated with a particular device subscriber and or household based on learning preferences from past interaction operations such as viewing history . The real time query processing system can determine demographic information and or subscription information of each household associated with one or more particular devices a breakdown of past viewing habits for a given set of devices types of devices and or households in terms of content items and or metacontent and or rich tags associated with content items. One or more devices may be specified according to demographic and or household information in any of the illustrative examples provided herein. In other words when conducting any of the illustrative determinations described above the results can be limited according to demographic and or household information.

It is understood that the types of reports information statistics and analytics listed above are illustrative only and other information can be derived by the real time query processing system based on the information contained within the event processing system . Likewise any number of statistical summaries of the illustrative determinations can be provided by the real time query processing system .

In addition to providing the information statistics analytics and query results listed above for the past and present the real time query processing system in combination with the other elements of the event processing system enable predictive analytics to provide estimates of the same information for future points in time. In one illustrative implementation real time query processing system determines which subscribers devices and or households are presently viewing a particular channel of a television system based on near immediate term data on interaction operations present in the persistent event database . The query system then correlates past interaction operations for the subset presently viewing the particular channel again from data cataloged in the persistent event database with enriched smart tag data present in the persistent video metacontent database . The past interaction operations are then projected to be future operations and optionally can have an adjustment factor applied based on the relationship between past action and future actions recorded by the system. This correlation can present viewing preferences of the subset of viewers of the particular channel as a whole as well as preferences of subgroups within the subset of viewers of the particular channel. Knowing the viewing preferences of a particular subgroup of the present viewers enables the operator of the service provider network to places advertisements targeted to the particular subgroup.

In addition to targeted advertisement placement the systems and methods described herein enable comparison of specific content items as well as categories e.g. genres of content items both in the past and present. For example the system enables the determination of the number of users that watch content items associated the baseball versus the number of users that watch content items associated with basketball where both baseball and basketball can be named entities or metacontent associated therewith . Further the system also enables the determination of the relative numbers of views of James Bond movies versus Indian Jones movies. Further still the system enables other comparative determinations such as the subjects of educational programs math versus chemistry the genres of movies action versus drama and which sports leagues European versus Spanish are being consumed. Moreover the various comparisons can be qualified by time of day the content is consumed duration of presentation of content date on which the content was presented as well as demographic information associated with the users consuming the content.

Likewise statistics associated with certain portions of a content item can be compared against statistics associated with other portions of the same content item. For example the query system can determine which portions of a particular type of sporting event commands the highest viewership. For example the system enables the determination of the number of viewers of a particular goal in the live broadcast of the 2010 World Cup and in particular can determine the number of viewers who rewound to that portion of the content item to replay the goal. Further the system can determine the number of viewers of the 2009 Super Bowl opening ceremony versus the halftime show. Further still by correlating information in the persistent event database and subscriber video signature database the system can determine the number of people who are presently watching the Super Bowl halftime show who also exhibit a preference for James Bond movies. Using this information embodiments of the invention enable a content provider or service operator to modify its content to suit a particular target audience or customer base. In addition aspects of the invention enable a service operator to prove or validate the makeup of its viewership to advertisers or content creators.

The techniques and systems disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer program product for use with a computer system. Such implementations may include a series of computer instructions or logic fixed either on a tangible medium such as a computer readable medium e.g. a diskette CD ROM ROM flash memory or fixed disk or transmittable to a computer system via a modem or other interface device such as a communications adapter connected to a network over a medium.

The medium may be either a tangible medium e.g. optical or analog communications lines or a medium implemented with wireless techniques e.g. microwave infrared or other transmission techniques . The series of computer instructions embodies all or part of the functionality described herein with respect to the system. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that such computer instructions can be written in a number of programming languages for use with many computer architectures or operating systems. Furthermore such instructions may be stored in any memory device such as semiconductor magnetic optical or other memory devices and may be transmitted using any communications technology such as optical infrared microwave or other transmission technologies.

It is expected that such a computer program product may be distributed as a removable medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation e.g. shrink wrapped software preloaded with a computer system e.g. on system ROM or fixed disk or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the network e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web . Of course some embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a combination of both software e.g. a computer program product and hardware. Still other embodiments of the invention are implemented as entirely hardware or entirely software e.g. a computer program product .

As described throughout the disclosure the methods systems and techniques presented herein overcome the limitations and drawbacks of known techniques. It will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the above described embodiments but encompasses modifications of and improvements to what has been described. For example embodiments have been described in terms of providing enhanced analytics for television viewership. However embodiments of the invention can be implemented for audio video content items viewed on fixed or portable computing device such as video enabled mobile telephones and PDAs. In addition some of the automated steps described herein as executed on server systems can be executed on portable devices e.g. mobile telephones PDAs hand held computing devices etc. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

