---

title: Tensor transmission-line metamaterials
abstract: Tensor transmission-line metamaterial unit cells are formed that allow the creation of any number of optic/electromagnetic devices. A desired electromagnetic distribution of the device is determined, from which effective material parameters capable of creating that desired distribution are obtained, for example, through a transformation optics/electromagnetics process. These effective material parameters are then linked to lumped or distributed circuit networks that achieve the desired distribution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08490035&OS=08490035&RS=08490035
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08490035
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 260 705 filed Nov. 12 2009 the entirety of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract Nos. FA9550 08 1 0067 and FA9550 09 1 0696 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure relates generally to subwavelength structured composite materials known as metamaterials and more particularly to techniques for using transmission line networks to design metamaterials with arbitrary material tensors.

The first negative refractive index medium was introduced in the early 2000s and was implemented and tested at microwave frequencies R. A. Shelby D. R. Smith and S. Schultz Experimental verification of a negative index of refraction vol. 292 pp. 77 79 April 2001 . The work along with introduction of the perfect lens negative refractive index superlens by John B. Pendry initiated great interest in subwavelength structured composite materials possessing tailored electromagnetic properties materials known today as metamaterials. Soon after these initial experiments a transmission line TL approach to synthesizing negative refractive index metamaterials was developed U.S. Pat. No. 6 859 114 . In that TL approach a host transmission line is periodically loaded with reactive elements. For example two dimensional isotropic and anisotropic transmission line metamaterials could be realized that exhibit both negative and positive effective material parameters Negative G. V. Eleftheriades and K. G. Balmain Eds. Hoboken N.J. Wiley IEEE Press 2005 . While metamaterials could be developed these TL based metamaterials were limited in that they had diagonal material tensors in the Cartesian basis a grid aligned with the rectangular unit cell dimensions .

Numerous theoretical devices have been proposed that are designed using transformation optics electromagnetics J. B. Pendry D. Schurig and D. R. Smith Controlling electromagnetic fields vol. 312 pp. 1780 1782 June 2006 but few practical realizations have been reported. The few experimental structures reported have either used isotropic metamaterials or metamaterials with contoured unit cells that follow the geometry of the structure to simplify the required material tensors so that only diagonal tensors are used. For example in D. Schurig J. J. Mock B. J. Justice S. A. Cummer J. B. Pendry A. F. Starr and D. R. Smith Metamaterial electromagnetic cloak at microwave frequencies 314 pp. 977 980 November 2006. a cylindrical invisibility cloak was implemented with curved cells which allowed tensor materials that are diagonal in the cylindrical basis to be used. However if one desires arbitrary control of electromagnetic fields one must have the ability to design metamaterials with arbitrary material tensors possessing diagonal and off diagonal tensor elements . Arbitrary control over the medium in which an electromagnetic field exists translates to arbitrary control over the electromagnetic field itself

There have also been efforts to develop tensor impedance surfaces which could be used for example to convert linearly polarized radiation to circular polarization. The surfaces have been referred to as artificial tensor impedance surfaces and in design contain trapezoidal metallic patches over a metal backed dielectric substrate. Sievenpiper et al. Fong B. H. Colburn J. S. Ottusch J. J. Visher J. L. Sievenpiper D. F. Scalar and Tensor Holographic Artificial Impedance Surfaces vol. 58 no. 10 pp. 3212 3221 October 2010 have used parametric studies to form a database of metallic patch geometries and their corresponding surface impedance tensors. This cataloging however can be time consuming since no clear relationship between geometry and impedance tensor has been identified. In addition methods of extending the technique to other frequency regimes have not been proposed.

The present techniques are able to address the shortcomings of the state of the art in a number of ways. For example provided herein is a rectangular unit cell that can be used to implement arbitrary material tensors for a particular electric field polarization. The tensor metamaterials proposed here directly relate circuit networks to tensor material parameters permittivity and permeability . The techniques herein allow metamaterial discretization over a uniform or non uniform grid while permitting arbitrary material tensors with spatial gradients. Furthermore the approach is transmission line based based on traveling wave structures and therefore promises broad bandwidths of operation and low losses. With regards to tensor impedance surfaces proposed by Sievenpiper et al. the present technique provides a more direct approach to tensor metamaterial synthesis. It does not require the lengthy parameter sweeps that have been employed to date to map different geometries to impedance tensors. Techniques herein are able to directly relate material tensors to circuit quantities. These circuit quantities can then be implemented using either distributed or lumped circuit elements.

Advantageously this new approach to tensor metamaterials may be readily applied to the RF microwave and millimeter wave spectrum and in some examples extended to higher frequencies for example by employing the concept of nano circuit elements N. Engheta A. Salandrino and A. Alu Circuit elements at optical frequencies Nanoinductors nanocapacitors and Nanoresistors . vol. 95 pp. 095504 095504 August 2005 .

In accordance with an example a method for forming an electromagnetic metamaterial with arbitrary material permittivity and or permeability tensors comprises directly mapping a material described by a 2 2 effective permeability tensor and permittivity constant or by a 2 2 effective permittivity tensor and permeability constant to a two dimensional electrical network that can be described by an impedance tensor and scalar admittance or an admittance tensor and a scalar impedance and converting the two dimensional electrical network to a two dimensional loaded transmission line network wherein the metamaterial comprises the loaded transmission line network such that when excited with a specified excitation the metamaterial produces a desired electromagnetic field distribution.

In some examples the metamaterial comprises a plurality of unit cells that may be isotropic while in other examples the unit cells may be anisotropic. While tensor TL metamaterial unit cells having 2 2 tensor material parameters are given as an example the unit cells may have a 2 2 or 3 3 material tensors. And the unit cells may be configured for p or s polarization.

In accordance with another example a method for forming electromagnetic metamaterials with arbitrary material permittivity and or permeability tensors using loaded transmission line networks comprises selecting a desired electromagnetic field distribution determining the effective material parameters needed to achieve the desired electromagnetic field distribution for a specific excitation and mapping the effective material parameters to a two dimensional loaded transmission network forming a tensor transmission line TL metamaterial such that when excited the metamaterial produces the desired electromagnetic field distribution.

While the disclosed methods and apparatus are susceptible of embodiments in various forms there are illustrated in the drawing and will hereafter be described specific embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

Below are example techniques for designing TL metamaterials with arbitrary full tensors. The ability to create metamaterials with arbitrary material tensors is important to controlling and directing electromagnetic fields. The ability to realize tensor metamaterials such as those described herein allows for the development of novel devices derived through transformation optics J. B. Pendry D. Schurig and D. R. Smith Controlling electromagnetic fields vol. 312 pp. 1780 1782 June 2006 . In transformation optics the path of electromagnetic waves is controlled through the spatial variation of a medium s effective material parameters. Specifically the change in electromagnetic field from an initial spatial distribution to a desired spatial distribution is recorded as a coordinate transformation. This coordinate transformation can then be directly related to a change in the permittivity and permeability of the underlying medium. The electromagnetic devices designed using transformation optics often consist of materials with full tensors that vary arbitrarily in space. As a result the ability to design tensor metamaterials is important to the development of many novel devices from DC to optical frequencies.

To form various desired electromagnetic devices a circuit approach is provided that directly maps material parameter distributions of polarization specific transformation designed electromagnetic devices to two dimensional loaded transmission line networks. For example the tensor TL metamaterials herein combine microwave network theory circuits with transformation optics a subject area that will be referred to as transformation circuits.

The present techniques allow one to control electromagnetic fields along a surface or radiating aperture. The resulting metamaterials therefore have uses across applications in particular in antenna design. Tensor TL metamaterials allow for the synthesis of arbitrary surface current distributions which means arbitrary antenna aperture distributions. And because an antenna s far field radiation pattern is a Fourier transform of its aperture distribution current distribution the present techniques will naturally allow the synthesis of planar conformal antennas with fixed arbitrary radiation patterns antennas may be produced having arbitrary far field patterns as a result. The inclusion of tunable reactive elements e.g. diode based or MEMs based varactors into the tensor TL metamaterials further enables arbitrarily configurable antenna apertures.

In addition to antenna applications the tensor TL metamaterials transformation circuits may be used in the design of antenna feeds beamforming networks interconnects multiplexers power dividers couplers and other electromagnetic devices. By combining the spatial field manipulation offered by transformation circuits with traditional filter concepts one may form wireless devices that provide both focusing collimating and filtering functionality.

The various blocks operations and techniques described herein including those of may be implemented in a special purpose machine for designing various optics and electromagnetic devices e.g. antenna beamforming networks interconnects multiplexers power dividers and couplers by implementing the structures using tensor TL metamaterials. That machine may include at least one processor a memory having stored thereon instructions that may be executed by that processor an input device such as a keyboard and mouse and a display for depicting instructions and or characteristics of the device under design and or the tensor TL metamaterials. Further that machine may include a network interface to allow for wired wireless communication of data to and from the machine e.g. between the machine a separate machine or a separate storage medium. The blocks and operations herein may be executed in hardware firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and or software. When implemented in software the software may be stored in any computer readable memory within or accessed by the machine such as on a magnetic disk an optical disk or other storage medium in a RAM or ROM or flash memory of a computer processor hard disk drive optical disk drive tape drive etc. Likewise the software may be delivered to a user or a system via any known or desired delivery method including for example on a computer readable disk or other transportable computer storage mechanism or via communication media. When implemented in hardware the hardware may comprise one or more of discrete components an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc.

Described below are example tensor TL unit cells that can be used to construct TL metamaterials capable of possessing arbitrary 2 2 permeability tensors and permittivity values for s polarized electromagnetic radiation and arbitrary 2 2 permittivity tensors and permeability values for p polarized radiation. An analysis of a 2 branch TL metamaterial unit cell network is provided in then a 3 branch TL metamaterial unit cell network full 2 2 tensor is provided in and for greater flexibility a 4 branch TL metamaterial unit cell network is described in . The 4 branch metamaterial unit cell shows circuit elements along two orthogonal directions and each diagonal. The analysis shows that metamaterials may be designed with permeability or permittivity profiles that are tensors meaning that no longer are transmission line based metamaterials limited to having diagonal permeability and permittivity profiles in the Cartesian basis a grid aligned with the rectangular unit cell dimensions .

The present techniques include the ability to represent and analyze transmission line metamaterials using tensors. The techniques also allow for the design of transmission line TL metamaterials with arbitrary 2 2 material tensors. While examples are discussed below of TL metamaterials based on a shunt node configuration these techniques may be extended to series node transmission line geometries as well for example for p polarized electromagnetic waves.

A tensor TL metamaterial represented by a diagonal tensor is shown in . This 2 branch structure is in general anisotropic since Zand Zmay be different. Two different choices of unit cell for this TL metamaterial are shown in and . is the standard transmission line metamaterial unit cell that has been proposed earlier Negative G. V. Eleftheriades and K. G. Balmain Eds. Hoboken N.J. Wiley IEEE Press 2005 .

The tensor and shunt admittance Y completely characterize the propagation characteristics along the TL metamaterial unit cell when the phase delay advance across the unit cell is small kd

The propagation characteristics of the network shown in are analogous to those for an s polarized wave electric field polarized in the z direction in a medium with the permeability tensor

Comparing Eqs. 5 and 8 one notices that there is a one to one relationship between a medium with material parameters and the electrical network shown in with parameters Y. Therefore the following substitution can be applied to go from the effective material parameters needed to realize an electromagnetic device for s polarized radiation to a two dimensional circuit network 9 

Both the anisotropic medium and its analogous electrical network possess diagonal tensors and exhibit dispersion curves that are ellipses or hyperbolas depending on the signs of the permeabilities impedances . The principal axes of the ellipses hyperbolas are aligned with those of the coordinate system since the tensor is diagonal.

To design an example TL metamaterial with a full 2 2 tensor we considered the circuit shown in . In addition to having series impedances in the x and y directions it also has a series impedance along the x y diagonal. The diagonal impedances give rise to off diagonal terms in the impedance tensor. To find the impedance tensor the net currents in the x and y directions see are found using the same procedure as before 10 The admittance tensor can be derived using 

Propagation along the network depicted in can be related to s polarized z directed electric field polarization propagation within an anisotropic medium with a full 2 2 permeability tensor

The present techniques may also be applied to more complex TL metamaterials where circuit elements appear along both diagonals of the unit cell or are meandered within the unit cell. To represent even greater design flexibility for example shows a network that has impedances along both diagonals of the unit cell. To derive the tensor the net currents in the x and y directions are found once again see 

The dispersion equation of the TL metamaterial shown in can be found by substituting the tensor entries from Eq. 20 into Eq. 13 

It should be noted that impedances on the y x diagonal appear as positive entries in the tensor while those on the y x diagonal appear as negative entries. Therefore depending on the desired frequency dependence of the parameters one may want to choose an impedance on one diagonal as opposed to the other. For example at a certain frequency of operation an inductance on the y x diagonal can be chosen to give the same zor zentry as capacitance on the y x diagonal. The resulting frequency variation of the two choices however would be quite different vs. 1 .

The diagonal impedances Zand Z lead to off diagonal tensor impedance elements Zand Z . These diagonal impedances allow a net current in one direction for example I which is representative of magnetic field intensity component H to give rise to series voltage drops in both the x and y directions Vand V which are proportional to the magnetic flux density components Band B . Therefore by properly selecting the values of Z Z Z and Z one can design a metamaterial with arbitrary magnetic anisotropy 2 2 tensor and permittivity constant. A different choice of tensor TL metamaterial unit cell with four branches two diagonal impedances which also possesses a full 2 2 tensor is shown in . A similar analysis can be performed on it as well.

For the foregoing analysis it was assumed that there was very little if any spatial dispersion i.e. phase delays across the unit cell in the x and y directions. To derive accurate dispersion equations that take into account spatial dispersion a Bloch analysis of the TL metamaterial shown in was performed. Bloch analysis is only performed on the TL metamaterial in because the dispersion equations for the unit cells in and can be derived from it.

An infinite structure having the unit cells depicted in can be analyzed by applying Bloch boundary conditions to the voltages at the edges of the unit cell. As shown in the voltages across the unit cell can be related to each other by the Bloch wavenumbers kand k. Once the voltages are assigned in this manner the currents on the branches of the unit cell may be written in terms of Z Z Z Z kd and kd

Next the impedances needed to terminate Bloch waves in finite tensor TL metamaterials having the unit cells shown in are found. The terminations are derived for a Bloch wave defined by a specific wavevector k k .

The four nodes corners of the unit cell shown in have been labeled A B C and D. The currents out of the nodes are named I I I and I respectively. The current out of each node can be expressed in terms of the currents defined by Eqs. 23 and 24 as follows 29 

The Bloch impedances Z Z Z and Zseen out of these nodes can then be computed by taking the ratio of the node voltage to the current out of the node

These impedances represent the impedances needed to terminate the unit cell in order to eliminate reflections reflected Bloch waves at its terminals corners . In effect these terminations make the TL metamaterial appear as if it were infinite in extent under a Bloch wave excitation. Since the currents I I Iand Iare defined out of the nodes for a specific Bloch wave characterized by the wavevector k k some of the Bloch impedances may have negative real parts. This simply means that the actual current flows in the opposite direction.

The proposed tensor TL metamaterials can be implemented as loaded 2D TL networks. depicts a practical realization of the tensor TL metamaterial shown in . As shown in printed microstrip lines are loaded with both series and shunt elements. In this example the substrate was assumed to be lossless and to have a relative permittivity of 3 and height h 1.524 mm. The width of the lossless metallic microstrip lines is 0.4 mm and the unit cell dimension d 8.4 mm.

A lumped element representation of the metamaterial depicted in which takes into account the TL inductance and capacitance in addition to the loading elements is shown in . In the figure the series loading elements are assumed to be inductors and the shunt loading element is assumed to be a capacitor. The variables L L L and L represent the series loading inductances whereas Ldenotes the inductance of the interconnecting microstrip lines. The capacitance Crepresents the sum of the transmission line capacitance Cand the additional loading capacitance C. The variables Cand Lmay be expressed in terms of Land C the per unit length inductance and capacitance of the interconnecting transmission lines as follows L Ld 2 and C C C C 2Cd 1 2 .

The values of Land Ccan be extracted from the unloaded microstrip grid s Bloch impedance and per unit cell phase delay. A unit cell of the unloaded microstrip grid is depicted in while its lumped element circuit model is shown in . Expressions for the Bloch impedance Zand Bloch wavenumber kof the unit cell shown in can be easily derived for on axis propagation. For frequencies of operation where the cell s dimensions are electrically short they can be expressed as

The Bloch wavenumber and impedance for on axis propagation can also be expressed in terms of the unit cell s Z parameters Z Z Z Z obtained from on axis scattering simulations on one unit cell of the unloaded microstrip grid

These circuit parameters completely characterize the unloaded TL grid at frequencies where the phase delays across it are electrically small kd

The analytical dispersion for tensor TL metamaterials was verified through three separate full wave simulations. The three examples consider the proposed metamaterial unit cell shown in with different sets of loading elements.

In the dispersion simulations periodic Bloch boundary conditions were defined on the unit cell faces with normal unit vectors circumflex over x and . A perfectly matched layer was placed at a distance seven times the substrate height above the microstrip lines in order to represent infinite free space above the metamaterial. The full wave eigenmode solver was then used to compute the isofrequency contours of the structure.

First a simulation was performed of an unloaded unit cell shown in . At low frequencies the infinite medium formed of these unit cells would be expected to be isotropic and homogeneous with isofrequency contours that are concentric circles. shows the isofrequency contours computed using the commercial full wave eigenmode solver HFSS and compares them to those obtained analytically. The analytical isofrequency contours were determined by substituting the following values square root over 2 square root over 2 36 into the derived dispersion Eq. 22 .

In the second example the microstrip TL grid was loaded with the following series inductive elements see 4 nH 2 nH 16 nH 12 nH 37 The impedances and admittance of this tensor TL metamaterial are square root over 2 square root over 2 38 

The analogous magnetically anisotropic medium given by Eqs. 9 17 and 20 has the following material parameters 12.01 and

The metamaterial and its analogous medium are anisotropic and have elliptical isofrequency contours with a negative tilt angle of approximately 32 from the x axis. The isofrequency contours obtained through full wave simulations and those derived analytically using Eq. 22 are compared in and and show close agreement.

The third example considers adding shunt capacitive loading elements in addition to series inductive elements. By loading the structure with a shunt capacitance the effective permittivity of the medium is increased over that of the unloaded grid. A shunt capacitance C 0.4 pF was added to the intrinsic capacitance of the microstrip TLs Cto yield . 40 The series inductive elements were chosen to be 4 nH 12 nH 16 nH 2 nH 41 

This set of inductive elements is different from that given by Eq. 37 . The values of Land Lhave been swapped in order to produce a positive tilt angle in the isofrequency contours. This sign change in tilt angle can be easily predicted from Eq. 22 . The simulated see and analytical isofrequency contours are compared in . Once again close agreement is observed between the simulated and analytically derived isofrequency contours. It should be noted that elliptical isofrequency contours are wider in than in due to the increase in effective permittivity of the medium. This final example shows that not only can the magnetic 2 2 tensor of the metamaterial be manipulated with series loading elements but its effective permittivity can also be tailored using shunt loading elements.

The above techniques were applied to design two separate example structures electromagnetic devices employing tensor TL metamaterials. This was done in order to show the utility of tensor TL metamaterials and the extreme control of electromagnetic fields they can provide. The first example considers refraction from an isotropic TL metamaterial to a tensor TL metamaterial. The above analysis in particular the one to one relationship between tensor material parameters and circuit quantities given by Eq. 9 and 17 allowed us to design two media that are impedance matched to each other. The second example considers the design of a cylindrical invisibility cloak embedded within an isotropic TL metamaterial. The cylindrical invisibility cloak is an annulus which renders anything placed inside it invisible to an outside observer within a given frequency range. These two examples demonstrate the ability of tensor TL metamaterials to manipulate electromagnetic waves in unusual and extreme ways.

For the first example the refraction example the isotropic and anisotropic TL metamaterials referred to as medium and medium respectively were designed as follows. Medium was implemented using the unit cell shown in whereas medium was implemented using the unit cell depicted in . The operating frequency was chosen to be 1.0 GHz. The unit cells of the media were assumed to have a cell dimension of d 8.4 mm which corresponds to 0.028 free space wavelengths at the frequency of operation. In this example we assumed that the wave in medium is incident at an angle of 30 with respect to the normal.

Given the unit cell dimension d frequency of operation and the network equivalence stipulated by Eqs. 9 and 17 medium corresponds to TL metamaterial shown in with lumped element values 10.55575132 nH 10.55575132 nH 0.07437518 pF 44 where 45 

Once again applying the substitutions given by Eqs. 9 and 17 to the material parameters given by Eq. 43 medium corresponds to the TL metamaterial shown in with the following electrical parameters

The angle of incidence and the phase matching condition along the interface between the two TL metamaterials stipulate per unit cell phase delays rad in medium and medium to be kd 0.21561754 kd 0.12448684 and kd 0.30403069 respectively.

Refraction at the interface between these two TL metamaterials was simulated using Agilent s Advanced Design System ADS circuit simulator. Each metamaterial extended two unit cells in the x direction and four unit cells in the y direction. Therefore the overall simulated structure was four by four unit cells as shown in . The plane wave incident from medium was generated using an array of linearly phased voltage sources along boundaries B and C as shown in . A phased voltage source was also needed along boundary D in order to eliminate the shadow along boundary D resulting from the finite interface. The source impedances boundaries B C and D and termination impedances remaining boundaries were found using the techniques outlined above. In other words the edges of the overall structure were terminated to emulate refraction between two semi infinite media.

A contour plot of the simulated voltage phases sampled at the corners of the unit cells in both TL metamaterials is shown in . The plot clearly shows an incident wave and refracted wave at the predicted angles. These results verify the dispersion equations and termination expressions discussed above as well as the equivalence between effective medium theory and network theory given by Eqs. 9 and 17 .

For the second example we modeled a cylindrical invisibility cloak using tensor TL metamaterials as shown in . The inner and outer radii of the cloak are denoted Rand R respectively. The material parameters of the cylindrical cloak are taken for the specific case of s polarized radiation z directed electric field 

Medium surrounding the cloak is assumed to be isotropic and homogeneous and . An operating frequency of 3.56896 GHz was selected along with radii of R 0.7 and R 1.4 . To implement the cloak using tensor TL metamaterials the substitutions given by Eqs. 9 and 17 were applied to the material parameters of the cloak and surrounding medium . The unit cell depicted in was used to design the lower right quadrant of the cloak . The remaining three quadrants were generated by mirroring the original quadrant along the x or y axes. The medium within and surrounding the cloak was implemented using the unit cell of . The dimensions of each unit cell were assumed to be 8.4 mm 10 at 3.56896 GHz . The cloak and surrounding space were discretized according to and the material parameters were defined with respect to the center of each unit cell. Each square in represents a unit cell. The 460 unit cells that constitute the cloak are identified with dots in order to distinguish them from the surrounding medium.

In the simulation the left hand side of the entire structure was excited with in phase voltage sources in order to generate a plane wave incident from left to right. The voltage sources as well as the right hand side of the structure were terminated in accordance with the descriptions above to emulate an infinite medium. The top and bottom edges of the simulated structure were open circuited as would be the case for a plane wave incident from left to right. As in the previous example the voltages at the edges of each unit cell were computed using the Agilent ADS circuit simulator. A time snapshot of the steady state voltages is plotted in . Some reflections to the left of the cloak and a slight shadow to the right of the cloak are observed resulting from the cloak s discretization. Nevertheless the field patterns characteristic of a cloak are quite prominent.

The metamaterials herein may be implemented through TL tensor networks operable at radio frequency microwave or millimeter wave frequencies e.g. using lumped or distributed circuit elements. In other examples these TL tensor networks may be operate at or above terahertz frequencies e.g. using nano circuit elements including nano inductors and nano capacitors. The nano inductors may be plasmonic nano particles for example and the nano capacitors may be dielectric nano particles. More generally the TL tensor networks may be formed of a two dimensional network of reactive and or resistive elements as demonstrated herein.

A field distribution engine collects information on a desired electromagnetic field distribution for a desired device to be fabricated. In some examples the field distribution engine will apply a coordinate transformation to an initial base field distribution to obtain the desired distribution of the device. The desired field distribution data is provided to a material property manager that may determine the effective material parameters e.g. permeability and permittivity needed to achieve the desired field distribution for a specific excitation. A transmission line network mapper and converter then takes the material parameters data from the manager and maps it to an electrical network e.g. a two dimensional electrical network formed of impedance and admittance values which is then converted to a tensor TL metamaterial e.g. a loaded two dimensional transmission line network having the desired material properties e.g. permeability and permittivity . The formed metamaterial when excited will produce the desired field distribution.

While the present invention has been described with reference to specific examples which are intended to be illustrative only and not to be limiting of the invention it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes additions and or deletions may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the invention may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

