---

title: Hydrophobic-core microcapsules and their formation
abstract: Hydrophobic-core microcapsules and methods of their formation are provided. A hydrophobic-core microcapsule may include a shell that encapsulates a hydrophobic substance with a core substance, such as dye, corrosion indicator, corrosion inhibitor, and/or healing agent, dissolved or dispersed therein. The hydrophobic-core microcapsules may be formed from an emulsion having hydrophobic-phase droplets, e.g., containing the core substance and shell-forming compound, dispersed in a hydrophilic phase. The shells of the microcapsules may be capable of being broken down in response to being contacted by an alkali, e.g., produced during corrosion, contacting the shell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09233394&OS=09233394&RS=09233394
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09233394
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100813
---
This application is related to co pending application referenced as KSC 13167 entitled Hydrophilic Core Microcapsules and their Formation filed concurrently and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 239 445 entitled Coatings and Methods for Corrosion Detection and or Reduction filed Sep. 19 2005 the contents of which are commonly assigned and incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and by an employee of the United States Government and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore. In accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202 the contractor elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates generally to microcapsules and in particular the present invention relates to hydrophobic core microcapsules and their formation.

Metals and metal alloys are present in some shape or form in nearly every facet of our lives. Many metals and metal alloys are subject to corrosion that causes these metals and metal alloys to lose their structural integrity. As such methods have been developed to detect the presence of corrosion and to inhibit corrosion.

For example color or fluorescent indicators have been combined directly with liquid coating materials such as paints temporary coating materials etc. to indicate corrosion based on the pH or electrical changes associated with corrosion when the coating materials are applied to corrosion containing surfaces. However problems such as the solubility of the indicator in a coating material and or chemical reactions interference with the coating material etc. can arise when an indicator is combined directly with a coating material. Another problem is that the indicator may not be compatible with the coating material and may negatively affect the coating capability of the coating material when the indicator is combined directly with the coating material.

Nondestructive evaluation methods such as X ray techniques including X ray scattering and X ray absorption spectroscopy are sometimes used to detect the presence of corrosion under coatings. However the resolution and or sensitivity of such methods can make it difficult to detect corrosion in its early stages. In addition these techniques can be excessively time intensive and typically require bulky expensive equipment.

Corrosion inhibitors have also been combined directly with coating materials. However directly combining a corrosion inhibitor with a coating material can lead to compatibility issues between the corrosion inhibitor and the coating material that can negatively affect the coating properties and or reduce the corrosion protection capability of the corrosion inhibitor.

Microcapsules containing a corrosion inhibitor have been added to protective coatings such as paints that are applied to metal surfaces and dried. The microcapsules have a frangible wall material that confines the corrosion inhibitor until the dried coating is subjected to a mechanical force due to an impact abrasion or cutting etc. sufficient to fracture and fragment the wall material. When the fracture occurs the corrosion inhibitor leaks into and spreads through damage sites to provide corrosion protection. However there can be other defects in a coating applied to a surface besides those caused by mechanical forces such as air bubbles occurring in the coating pin holes occurring in the coating uneven coating thickness poor coating adhesion to an unclean metal substrate poor coating adhesion at corners etc. that can result in corrosion of the metal. In addition the frangible capsules may include a dye that marks the damage sites for notice and possible detailed repair but the dye is only released in response to the fracture of the capsules and indicates mechanical damage that could possibly but not necessarily result in corrosion.

Hydrophobic core microcapsules and methods of their formation are provided. A hydrophobic core microcapsule may include a shell that encapsulates a core substance which can be dissolved or dispersed in a hydrophobic material such as dye corrosion indicator corrosion inhibitor film forming compound healing agent or various combinations thereof. The hydrophobic core microcapsules may be formed from an emulsion having hydrophobic phase dispersed in a hydrophilic phase with shell forming compounds contained in the hydrophilic phase or the hydrophobic phase and the core substance contained in the hydrophobic phase. The shells of the hydrophobic core microcapsules may be capable of being broken down in response to being contacted by an alkali e.g. produced during corrosion contacting the shell. The hydrophobic core microcapsules may be dispersed in a coating formulation such as paint.

In the following detailed description of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. In the drawings like numerals describe substantially similar components throughout the several views. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and chemical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

A suitable film forming compound may be a clear varnish such as an acrylic varnish. A suitable indicator may be a pH indicator that changes color over the alkaline region e.g. pHs from about 8 to about 10 such as phenolphthalein. Another suitable indicator is one that fluoresces such as 7 hydroxycoumarin coumarin Rhodamine B etc. in the presence of or upon the oxidation of a metal or in the presence or upon the formation of a metal cation complex. A suitable corrosion inhibitor may be sodium nitrate camphor polyamine fatty acid salts in a solvent such as toluene vegetable oil etc. sodium molybdate cerium nitrate sodium phosphate calcium metaborate or the like. Suitable healing agents include epoxy resin and its hardeners siloxane resin and its catalysts any one part coating suspension in a solvent or two part coating system that would cure at room temperature or the like.

Shell is broken down or disintegrates in the presence of a base such as an alkali e.g. having a pH above about 8 for releasing encapsulant . That is shell is pH sensitive and breaks down by interacting with a compound such as an alkali having a particular pH. For example shell breaks down and releases its contents when an alkali produced during a corrosion reaction contacts shell .

A microcapsule may be formed by forming an emulsion having droplets of a hydrophobic substance such as oil e.g. toluene vegetable oil xylene mineral oil a mixture of hydrocarbons e.g. diesel fuel or any other non water soluble organic material dispersed in a hydrophilic phase e.g. an oil in water emulsion . Microcapsules such as microcapsules formed from emulsions with hydrophobic droplets e.g. hydrophobic phase such as an oil phase dispersed in a substantially continuous hydrophilic phase may be termed hydrophobic e.g. oil core microcapsules.

A surfactant such as xanthan gum available from Fisher Scientific Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. attapulfite clay e.g. aluminum magnesium silicate such as ATTAGEL 40 a thickener available from Engelhard Corporation Iselin N.J. alkylnaphthalene sulphonate powder e.g. Petro BAF powder from Akzo Nobel Chemicals Inc. Chicago Ill. and or mid level sulfonation kraft lignin dispersants e.g. REAX 83A available from MeadWestvaco Corporation Stamford Conn. is added to the emulsion to disperse the oil in the water. A pre polymer such as an amino resin pre polymer a cross linking agent having one or more ester and mercapto groups that are broken down under basic conditions and one or more core materials are added to the hydrophobic phase. A catalyst such as an inorganic or organic acid is added to the hydrophilic phase. The oil in water emulsion is heated causing a polymerization reaction to occur at the water oil interface which forms shell around encapsulant . Such a process is known as an interfacial polymerization process.

It is the interaction of alkaline conditions with the shell material that causes shell to break down under alkaline conditions. Alternatively encapsulant can be released mechanically such as by scratching or compressing a surface to which coating is applied.

A basic condition e.g. alkaline often forms in the presence of corrosion in a metal or a metal alloy. A basic condition often forms next to corrosion induced pits crevices etc. For example as is known in the art when a drop of salt water is applied to steel the anodic reaction occurs to produce a rust spot and the cathodic reaction i.e. the reduction reaction of the oxygen in the presence of water occurs to produce a basic condition. Therefore when coating is applied to a metal surface and if corrosion occurs shells of the microcapsules can be exposed to the basic condition e.g. alkaline and will break down under the basic condition resulting from the corrosion thereby releasing encapsulant . Hereinafter corrosion will refer to any chemical or electrochemical process involving the deterioration or degradation of metals including pitting crevice corrosion dissimilar metal corrosion or the like.

For one embodiment coating is temporarily applied to a metal surface by spraying or brushing to detect whether corrosion has occurred. Examples of a metal surface include a bare metal surface a metal surface coated with paint varnish epoxy etc. a metal coated with a previous application of coating or the like. For example a coating containing the microcapsules disclosed herein may be applied as a primer coating a top coating or an intermediate coating between a primer coating and a top coating. Other examples of a metal surface include metal or metal alloy e.g. a ferrous metal or alloy. For this embodiment coating vehicle is an aqueous gel and encapsulant includes a suitable indicator such as the pH indicator or florescent indicator as described above. In the presence of corrosion the shells of the microcapsules break down releasing the indicator. The pH indicator will change color or the florescent indicator will fluoresce to indicate the presence of corrosion. Another example of a temporary coating is a water suspension of microcapsules .

Coating vehicle is not limited to an aqueous gel or other temporary coatings but can be a clear paint or varnish opaque paint or varnish etc. that is substantially permanently applied to the metal surface by spraying brushing or rolling for example. For another embodiment coating is applied substantially permanently to a bare metal surface as a primer coat that may be clear coated.

For some embodiments where coating is substantially permanently applied encapsulant may include the indicator or the corrosion inhibitor or both. For other embodiments encapsulant may include the indicator the healing agent or the corrosion inhibitor or various combinations thereof. If corrosion occurs encapsulant due to shells breaking down in the presence of the basic condition resulting from the corrosion is released and the corrosion inhibitor acts to prevent further corrosion while the indicator indicates the corrosion location. For another embodiment a trauma such as a scratch an impact etc. to coating may act to expose metal. The trauma can also break shells so as to release corrosion inhibitor that acts to reduce the degree of the corrosion of the exposed metal.

For another embodiment where coating is substantially permanently applied encapsulant may include the film forming compound the film forming compound and corrosion inhibitor the film forming compound corrosion inhibitor and indicator the film forming compound and healing agent the film forming compound indicator and healing agent or the film forming compound and the indicator. For example encapsulant may include the film forming compound corrosion inhibitor indicator healing agent or various combinations thereof. For one embodiment if coating is exposed to trauma that causes shells to break the film forming compound covers at least a portion of the trauma and acts to reduce the degree of any exposed metal of corroding. For some embodiments the corrosion inhibitor acts to further reduce the degree of corrosion of any exposed metal.

Note that if corrosion occurs at locations away from the trauma location due to small breaks in the coating such as chips or other coating defects corrosion inhibitor and film forming compound will be released due to shells breaking down in the presence of the basic condition resulting from the corrosion. In other embodiments the indicator will indicate the presence of the corrosion.

For some embodiments the different functions of the core components can be incorporated into a coating by encapsulating different core components into the same capsules or by incorporating different capsules with different components within the coating. For example a portion of microcapsules in coating may contain corrosion inhibitor and or the healing agent and another portion of microcapsules in coating may contain indicator. In another example a portion of microcapsules in coating may contain corrosion inhibitor and or the healing agent another portion of microcapsules in coating may contain indicator and yet another portion of microcapsules in coating may contain film forming compound. In another example a portion of microcapsules in coating may contain film forming compound and another portion of microcapsules in coating may contain indicator. For some embodiments microcapsules having different contents are randomly distributed within coating vehicle so that microcapsules having the different functions of indicating inhibiting healing and or film forming may be adjacent each other as well as microcapsules having like functions being adjacent each other.

As indicated above hydrophobic core microcapsules such as oil core microcapsules may be formed from emulsions e.g. oil in water emulsions . These emulsions include hydrophobic phase droplets such as oil phase droplets e.g. as the dispersed phase dispersed in a hydrophilic phase such as a water phase e.g. as the continuous phase . If a compound active substance is hydrophobic or it can be dissolved or dispersed in hydrophobic substance e.g. an oil then it is possible to encapsulate it in hydrophobic core microcapsules. When a compound does not have sufficient solubility in the hydrophobic phase a co solvent may be used to improve the dissolution of the active compound and facilitate the encapsulation process. Similarly when a compound cannot be dispersed into oil to form a reasonably stable suspension e.g. indicated by droplets of the compound being dispersed throughout the oil and the compound remaining dispersed during emulsion formation and encapsulation processes a surfactant may be used to improve the dispersion of the compound and facilitate the encapsulation process. So if a compound is an oil or it can be dissolved or dispersed in oil with or without the aid of a co solvent or a surfactant it is possible to encapsulate it into oil core microcapsules.

Hydrophobic core microcapsules are typically used for encapsulating oil soluble materials but not water soluble materials such as salts or polar molecules. Water soluble materials can be incorporated into oil core microcapsules by first adding them to a co solvent such as a polar co solvent and then adding the resulting solution to the hydrophobic phase. Alternatively a surfactant can be added to the hydrophobic phase. This will dissolve or disperse the polar or water soluble reagents into the hydrophobic phase. The emulsion e.g. oil in water emulsion can then be formed by adding the hydrophobic phase e.g. oil phase to a hydrophilic phase e.g. water phase and a reaction can be initiated in the oil in water emulsion to encapsulate oil with the active substance dissolved or dispersed therein into the core of the hydrophobic core microcapsules.

In general oil core and water core microcapsules include an encapsulant contained within a shell shell such as a polymeric shell . For example the core encapsulant of an oil core microcapsule may include a hydrophobic substance such as oil an active substance dissolved in the oil with or without the aid of a co solvent or an active substance dispersed in the oil with or without the aid of a surfactant. The active substance dissolved or dispersed in the encapsulated oil may include a dye a corrosion indicator a corrosion inhibitor a film forming compound a healing agent or various combinations thereof. The encapsulant of a water core microcapsule may include water an active substance dissolved in the water with or without the aid of a co solvent or an active substance dispersed in the water with or without the aid of a surfactant. The active substance dissolved or dispersed in the encapsulated water may include a dye a corrosion indicator a corrosion inhibitor a film forming compound a healing agent or various combinations thereof.

The polymeric shell of oil core microcapsules may include a polymer formed from a shell forming compound e.g. shell forming precursor that comprises consists of or consists essentially of a cross linking agent having one or more ester and mercapto groups and or a film forming pre polymer. The shell forming compound may comprise consist of or consist essentially of about 5 to about 75 percent e.g. about 20 to about 50 percent by mass of a cross linking agent and about 25 to about 95 percent e.g. about 50 to about 80 percent by mass of a film forming pre polymer. Examples of the cross linking agent include but are not limited to pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate or compounds with similar structure e.g. pentaerythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT pentaerythritol dipentaerythritol dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate tetra mercaptoacetate pentaerythritol tetra acrylate and their derivatives. Examples of the film forming pre polymer include but are not limited to urea formaldehyde pre polymer resin e.g. butylated urea formaldehyde resin such as CYMEL U80 melamine formaldehyde resin polyurethane prepolymers polyols or film forming monomers such as urea and formaldehyde solution melamine and formaldehyde solution isocyanates and various glycols etc. Note that the shell forming compound forms the shells of the oil core and water core microcapsules.

The microcapsule shell of oil core microcapsules may include one or more chemical bonds due to the ester group in the cross linking agent that are cleavable e.g. broken down at ambient temperature when the surrounding pH changes due to the occurrence of a corrosion process. For example the ester groups may undergo an irreversible hydrolysis reaction under basic pH e.g. when exposed to an alkali.

Pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate type molecules are normally not a good film former by themselves. As such the film forming pre polymers such as urea formaldehyde or melamine formaldehyde pre polymers serve as the precursor that provides the structure integrity of the capsule shell.

Cross linking agents that have three or four functional groups such as pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate pentaerythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT pentaerythritol dipentaerythritol dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate tetra mercaptoacetate and pentaerythritol tetraacrylate can also provide chemical resistance e.g. solvent resistance to the microcapsule shells.

In general the hydrophilic phase may include about 0.05 to about 30 percent by mass surfactant and about 70 to about 99.5 percent by mass water. For example the hydrophilic phase may include about 1 percent by mass of the surfactant having branched polyoxyethylene 5 nonylphenyl ether IGEPAL CO 520 and polyvinyl alcohol PVA and about 99 percent by mass water. Alternatively the hydrophilic phase may include about 5 to about 6 percent by mass of a surfactant including a mixture of xanthan gum Petro BAF ATTAGEL 40 and REAX 83A and about 94 to about 95 percent by mass water.

At block a hydrophobic phase e.g. an oil phase is formed. For example a monomer and pre polymer may be added to oil to form the hydrophobic phase. For example shell forming compounds comprising consisting of or consisting essentially of a cross linking agent and a pre polymer may be added to the hydrophobic phase. For example the shell forming compounds form the shells of the completed microcapsules. The active substances such as dye corrosion indicator corrosion inhibitor film forming compound healing agent or various combinations thereof may be also added to the hydrophobic phase. For some embodiments the hydrophobic phase may include two hydrophobic phases that are formed individually to avoid the possible incompatibility between different ingredients.

The hydrophobic phase may comprise consist of or consist essentially of a solvent the shell forming compound dye corrosion indicator corrosion inhibitor film forming compound healing agent or various combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of the hydrophobic material include aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene xylene mineral oil vegetable oil a mixture of hydrocarbons such as diesel fuel or any other nonpolar organic material. The pre polymer or the cross linking agent of the shell forming compound should have chemical bonds that are susceptible to a hydrolysis reaction under basic conditions e.g. the cross linking agent should provide an ester group. This causes the shell to break down when exposed to an alkali. For example when a butylated urea formaldehyde resin CYMEL U80 is used as the pre polymer a suitable shell forming precursor that provides an ester group may be the cross linking agent penta erythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT . For some embodiments a co solvent such as ethanol or isopropanol may be added to the hydrophobic phase.

For some embodiments the hydrophobic phase may include about 5 to about 20 percent by mass pre polymer about 2 to about 20 percent by mass cross linker about zero to about 10 percent by mass corrosion indicator or corrosion inhibitor about zero to about 30 percent by mass co solvent and about 20 to about 93 percent solvent.

For embodiments where two hydrophobic phases are formed individually a first hydrophobic phase hydrophobic phase I may include an oil soluble surfactant such as sodium bis 2 ethylhexyl sulfosuccinate AEROSOL OT and a dye such as water soluble dye e.g. Rhodamine B a fluorescent dye and or a healing agent such as chlorobenzene. The second hydrophobic phase hydrophobic phase II may include pre polymer such as CYMEL U80 and a cross linking agent such as penta erythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT . For embodiments where the first hydrophobic phase includes healing agent the healing agent may be used as the solvent.

The hydrophobic phase is then added to the hydrophilic phase to form an oil in water emulsion at block . For example the hydrophobic phase may be mixed into the hydrophilic phase so that hydrophobic phase droplets are dispersed within the hydrophilic phase. For example the oil in water emulsion may be about 20 to about 60 percent by mass hydrophobic phase and about 40 to about 80 percent by mass hydrophilic phase. For embodiments involving two hydrophobic phases the hydrophobic phase containing the surfactant hydrophobic phase I is usually added to the hydrophilic phase before adding hydrophobic phase II containing the pre polymer and cross linking agent. The resulting oil in water emulsion includes oil droplets that include hydrophobic phase I and hydrophobic phase II and that are dispersed in the hydrophilic phase. For example the oil in water emulsion may be about 1 to about 15 percent by mass hydrophobic phase I about 10 to about 20 percent by mass hydrophobic phase II and about 65 to about 89 percent by mass hydrophilic phase. At block a catalyst is added to the oil in water emulsion. Acids both inorganic and organic can be used as catalysts. For example an acid may be added to the oil in water emulsion until its pH is in the range of about 2 to about 5.

At block the oil in water emulsion including the catalyst is heated to a particular temperature causing an interfacial polymerization reaction. For example heating the emulsion to a temperature that lies in the temperature range of about 50 to about 70 C. may result in a reaction time of less than about 3 hours for solid microcapsule shell e.g. wall formation.

The capsule size can be controlled by the emulsion formula but the mixing speed of the mixer e.g. a homogenizer during the emulsion formation at block also acts to control the capsule size. By adjusting both the emulsion formula and the mixing speed microcapsules with a relatively narrow size distribution can be formed. For example sizes from about 100 nanometers to about 500 microns can be formed with a typical size from about 1 to about 5 microns. For other embodiments the microcapsules have a size in the range from about 1 to about 50 microns.

The shell forming precursor such as the cross linking agent pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate or penta erythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT and urea formaldehyde or melamine formaldehyde prepolymer or their monomers results in a desirable combination of the pH sensitivity and the structural integrity of the shell. Heating time can also affect the pH sensitivity and the structural integrity of the shell. Shorter heating times result in thinner capsule walls meaning high pH sensitivity. Increasing the amount of cross linking agent can also increase the pH sensitivity of the microcapsule.

After heating for a particular time and before terminating the reaction a sample of the mixture may be tested e.g. by centrifuging to determine whether any of the hydrophobic phase still remains which indicates that not all of the hydrophobic phase is encapsulated and thus a longer heating time may be required. If there is substantially no remaining hydrophobic phase in a centrifuged sample then the solid microcapsule walls are formed. After the solid wall forms the reaction is allowed to continue to allow sufficient time for the microcapsule wall to cure and then the reaction can be terminated e.g. by neutralizing the reaction mixture to a pH of about 7 such as by adding an ammonia water solution. Another way to determine if the solid microcapsule walls are formed is to take an emulsion sample and allow the water within to evaporate. Then observe the remaining sample. If liquid oil remains the microcapsule wall is not yet completely formed. If only solid particles are observed then the solid microcapsules walls are already formed.

Hydrophobic core oil core microcapsules were prepared using the following example processes formulas 

In Example 1A the water phase was prepared by respectively dissolving water soluble surfactants such as xanthan gum Petro BAF powder ATTAGEL 40 and REAX 83A in water one at a time while stirring as shown in Table 1. The oil phase in Example 1A was prepared by adding a pre polymer such as CYMEL U80 and a cross linking agent such as penta erythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate PTT to the oil such as toluene and stirred e.g. using a Powergen 500 homogenizer available from Fisher Scientific Inc. until mixed. A co solvent such as isopropanol was added to the oil phase in Example 1A to assist emulsion formation. The oil phase was dispersed into the water phase by stirring e.g. at a Powergen 500 homogenizer stirrer speed of about 10000 rpm to form an oil in water emulsion.

When the sizes of the oil phase droplets are substantially uniform within the emulsion the polymer shell of the microcapsules is formed through a polymerization reaction initiated by adding the catalyst e.g. an acid catalyst such as an inorganic and or organic acid and heating the emulsion. For example sulfuric acid 4N HSO may be added e.g. a drop at a time to the emulsion while stirring until the pH is about 2 or 3. The emulsion is then heated e.g. to about 70 C. to initiate a polymerization reaction and is maintained at about 70 C. for a reaction time of about 2 hours to form oil core microcapsules having an average diameter of less than about 5 microns.

Oil core microcapsules containing a core substance including the corrosion indicator phenolphthalein were formed in Example 1B. The oil phase in Example 1B was prepared as described above in Example 1A except that phenolphthalein is dissolved in isopropanol and the resulting solution were added to the oil phase as shown in the Table 2 below 

The resulting microcapsules had a size below about 2 microns with shells encapsulating a core of toluene and isopropanol with phenolphthalein dissolved therein.

Oil core microcapsules containing a core substance including the corrosion inhibitor CeCl cerium III chloride were formed using the water phase of Example 1A. The oil phase was prepared as described above in Example 1A except that CeCl e.g. CeCl7HO was dissolved in a co solvent such as ethanol and the resulting solution was added to the oil phase as shown in Table 3 below 

Example 2 uses a different process from the process of Example 1A 1C as shown in Table 4 below. In Example 2 a corrosion indicator was dispersed into oil phase directly. The oil phase was dispersed into the water phase by stirring using a conventional high shear stirrer at a stirring speed of about 800 to about 1200 rpm to form the oil in water emulsion. 4N HSOwas added a drop at a time to the emulsion while stirring until the pH was about 3. The emulsion was then heated to about 50 C. to initiate an interfacial polymerization reaction. The emulsion was maintained at about 50 C. for a reaction time of about 3 hours to form oil core microcapsules having an average size of less than about 50 microns with shells encapsulating a core of toluene and phenolphthalein dissolved therein.

Example 3 uses a water phase somewhat different with that of Example 2 as shown in Table 5 below. The corrosion indicator phenolphthalein was first dissolved in isopropanol and then the resulting solution was added into the oil phase. The mixing speed the acid catalyst and the heating method were kept the same as Example 2. The resulting oil core microcapsules had an average size of about 25 30 microns with shells encapsulating a core of toluene and isopropanol with phenolphthalein dissolved therein.

Microcapsules containing other corrosion indicators such as phenol red and fluorescein were formed using methods similar to examples 1A 1C 2 and 3 using formulas shown in Tables 6 and 7 below. The preparation of the oil phase included dissolving phenol red or fluorescein in a co solvent such as isopropanol and then adding the resulting solution to an oil phase.

Oil core microcapsules with dye may be prepared according to Example 4 e.g. in order to observe the dispersing property of the microcapsules in a paint formulation or a coating formulation. For example the dye e.g. Rhodamine B may be water soluble and thus it dissolves in the water phase regardless of whether a co solvent such as alcohol is used. The idea here is to use an oil soluble surfactant such as AEROSOL OT that can interact with Rhodamine B so the Rhodamine B can be dispersed in the oil phase.

In Example 4 a water phase was formed as described above in conjunction with Example 1 as shown in the Table 8 below. An oil phase I was formed by dissolving Rhodamine B dye in AEROSOL OT and adding the resulting solution to oil such as toluene. An oil phase II was formed by adding CYMEL U80 and PTT to toluene and stirring. Oil phase I was added to the water phase first to form an oil in water emulsion. Oil phase II was then added to the oil in water emulsion a drop at a time while stirring. A polymerization reaction was then initiated by adding a catalyst e.g. an acid catalyst and heating the oil in water emulsion. For example the resulting microcapsules had a core including toluene AEROSOL OT and Rhodamine B and had a size below about 5 microns.

As indicated above a healing agent may be encapsulated in a microcapsule. Self healing is an important function of a coating containing the microcapsules disclosed herein. For example a solvent e.g. an oil such as chlorobenzene may be used as a healing agent.

In Example 5 chlorobenzene containing oil core microcapsules were formed using the formula in Table 9. A water phase was formed by adding one at a time in order xanthan gum Petro BAF powder ATTAGEL 40 and REAX 83A to water and dissolving by mixing e.g. at about 4000 rpm using the Powergen homogenizer. An oil phase I was formed by dissolving AEROSOL OT and dye such as Rhodamine B dye in chlorobenzene. The oil phase I was then added into the water phase under agitation and mixed until a stable oil in water emulsion was formed e.g. indicated by droplets of oil phase I being substantially uniformly dispersed throughout the water phase . An oil phase II was formed by dissolving CYMEL U80 and pentaerythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptoacetate PTT in chlorobenzene. Oil phase II was then added to the oil in water emulsion and the oil in water emulsion was mixed until oil in water emulsion was stable e.g. indicated by oil phase droplets including a solution of oil phase I and oil phase II being substantially uniformly dispersed throughout the water phase .

When the oil in water emulsion is stable the pH of the oil in water emulsion may be adjusted e.g. to a pH of about 2 using a 4N HSOsolution. The temperature of the oil in water emulsion is then raised e.g. to about 70 C. to initiate a polymerization reaction. The temperature is maintained at about 70 C. for a reaction time of about 3 hours. After about 3 hours the reacted emulsion was cooled to about room temperature and the microcapsules e.g. having a size of about 3 to about 5 microns were separated. Note that the size of the microcapsules thus formed is suitable for coating applications. The microcapsules have shells encapsulating a core of AEROSOL OT and Rhodamine B dye dissolved in chlorobenzene.

In some embodiments the surfactants xanthan gum Petro BAF powder ATTAGEL 40 and REAX 83A may be replaced by the surfactants IGEPAL CO 520 and polyvinyl alcohol PVA in the water phase. For example in Examples 6 and 7 oil core microcapsules were formed using the formulas shown in Table 10 and 11.

After the water phase and the oil phase were formed and mixed together to form a stable oil in water emulsion a catalyst para toluene sulfonic acid PSTA was then added to the emulsion. After adding the catalyst the emulsion was heated to about 70 C. to initiate a polymerization reaction and was maintained at about 70 C. for a reaction time of about 3 hours. These oil core microcapsules were then separated from the water phase by centrifuging at about 5000 rpm. These oil core microcapsules had a core of toluene and ethanol encapsulated within the shells.

Using IGEPAL CO 520 and polyvinyl alcohol PVA in the water phase in place of xanthan gum Petro BAF powder ATTAGEL 40 and REAX 83A resulted in a less stable emulsion that enabled the microcapsules to be more easily separated from the suspension after the reaction.

Oil core microcapsules containing a pH indicator such as phenolphthalein may be formed using the water phase surfactants of Example 6 as shown in Table 12 for Example 8 wherein an oil phase was added to a water phase while mixing to form a stable emulsion. The catalyst PSTA is added to the emulsion. The emulsion was then heated to about 70 C. to initiate a polymerization reaction and was maintained at about 70 C. for a reaction time of about 3 hours. The microcapsules were then separated from the water phase by centrifuging at about 5000 rpm. The microcapsules had shells encapsulating a core of phenolphthalein dissolved in toluene and ethanol.

Oil core microcapsules containing water soluble dye such as Rhodamine B may be formed using the water phase surfactants of Example 6 as shown in Table 12 below. For example in Example 8 an oil phase and a water phase were formed. The oil phase was added to the water phase while mixing to form a stable emulsion. PSTA was added to the emulsion as a catalyst. After adding the PSTA the emulsion was heated to about 70 C. to initiate an interfacial polymerization reaction and was maintained at about 70 C. for a reaction time of about 3 hours. The microcapsules were then separated from the water phase by centrifuging at about 5000 rpm. The microcapsules had shells encapsulating a core of Rhodamine B toluene and ethanol.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Many adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the invention. It is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

