---

title: Interaction of sound, silent and mute modes in an electronic device
abstract: This is directed to controlling the output of audio based on the mode of an electronic device. In particular, this is directed to an electronic device having a sound mode, silent mode, and mute mode controlling the output of audio along different audio output routes. In the sound mode, all audio can be output, while only registered or authorized audio can be output in the silent mode. In the mute mode, no audio can be output. The sound and silent modes can be enabled using an interface of the device (e.g., a switch having two possible states), while the mute mode can be enabled using an accessory coupled to the device. To disengage the mute mode, a user can provide a corresponding instruction using the accessory, or providing an instruction on the device related to volume control. For example, a user can change the device volume using an on-device interface, or toggle a sound/silent switch to a sound mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08934645&OS=08934645&RS=08934645
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08934645
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 298 456 filed Jan. 26 2010 entitled Interaction of Sound Silent and Mute Modes in an Electronic Device which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

An electronic device can include several modes for providing audio to a user. For example a telephone e.g. a cellular telephone can include a ring mode and a silent mode. When the ring mode is enabled incoming communications requests may cause the device to output audio indicating the request to a user. In addition system sounds e.g. audio associated with inputs such as key striking sounds or application sounds e.g. background music in a game application or voice over help can be provided. Similarly sounds explicitly requested by a user such as media playback audio e.g. provided by a media streaming application or by a media application for playing back locally stored media can be provided when the ring mode is enabled.

A user can switch from the ring mode to a silent mode to prevent the device from outputting some of the audio. For example a user may not want the cellular telephone to provide an audible ring while in a meeting but may instead want the cellular telephone to vibrate. In silent mode no audio indicating an incoming communications request can be provided but other non audible processes can be used instead to indicate the communications request e.g. a display indication or a haptic indication . Similarly some system sounds and application sounds provided in the ring mode can also be silenced in a silent mode. Some system sounds and application sounds as well as sounds explicitly requested by the user can however be provided. The system and application can qualify different sounds that they provide using different categories including for example categories that indicate whether a sound is silenced by the silent mode.

Other electronic devices however may have no need for a ring mode. In particular notebook and desktop computers which may not ring upon receiving a communications request may not include ring and silent modes. Instead these devices can include mute and un mute modes. In an un mute mode all sounds generated by the device can be provided to a user. In particular system sounds and application sounds can be provided using different routes e.g. on device speakers through a line out port or through an audio jack . In a mute mode no sounds generated by the device can be provided to the different routes for output. For example the device may not send audio associated with the system or application to subroutines or processes associated with providing audio outputs.

This is directed to a device having both sound and silent modes as well as mute and un mute modes and to the interaction of the modes. In some embodiments the un mute mode can be the same as the one of the sound and silent modes that is enabled. The silent mode can be enabled using an interface of the device while the mute mode can be enabled using an accessory coupled to the electronic device.

An electronic device can include several modes for controlling the output of audio. In some embodiments the electronic device can toggle between a sound mode and a silent mode. The electronic device can include any suitable interface for toggling between the modes including for example a button. When the sound mode is enabled all audio generated or requested by applications or processes of the device can be output by audio output routes of the device. For example audio can be output using one or more of speakers on the device components coupled to the device via connectors e.g. headphones connected through an audio jack or speakers connected via USB or components wirelessly coupled to the device.

In the silent mode some of the audio generated or requested by applicants or processes can be restricted and prevented from being output using one or more audio output routes. For example ringtones and ambient sounds can be restricted while sounds requested by a user e.g. audio associated with user requested media playback can be provided. While in silent mode the user can control the volume of output audio by providing instructions to increase or decrease the output volume e.g. the volume of audio registered to be output in the silent mode .

In some embodiments the electronic device can in addition include a mute mode engageable by an accessory coupled to the electronic device. For example a keyboard accessory can be coupled to the device using a connector or a wireless protocol. The keyboard accessory can include several volume control keys including for example a mute key. In response to a user selecting the mute key the electronic device can stop the output of all audio along all audio output routes. The user can un mute the device using the accessory or by instructing the device to change volume e.g. with or without using the accessory .

In some embodiments the sound silent modes and the mute mode can operate independently and in an additive manner. Alternatively switching from silent mode to sound mode e.g. using the electronic device switch can disable the mute mode and enable the device to resume outputting audio. In some embodiments some audio can be output despite the mute mode. Such audio can be associated with particular applications or processes including for example applications that are of high interest to the user even when the user has provided an instruction to enable the mute mode e.g. a process to find my device or an alarm clock .

An electronic device having a sound mode a silent mode and a mute mode for controlling the output of audio by the device is provided. The device can include an input interface for toggling between the sound and silent modes and be coupled to an accessory for enabling or disabling the mute mode.

Device can provide any suitable output for a user of the device. In some embodiments electronic device can include audio circuitry . The audio circuitry can be coupled to or include input output circuitry for converting and encoding decoding if necessary digital data e.g. reflecting audio clips and other data into analog signals. In some embodiments audio circuitry can send digital data converted or decoded if necessary to one or more audio output routes where an audio output component associated with the route can convert the received data to an analog signal. The audio circuitry can receive or retrieve audio to be played back from software applications or firmware operating on the device. For example an application can provide information identifying a particular audio clip to play back to audio circuitry for output.

Audio circuitry can provide audio signals to any suitable audio output route for output by the device. Audio output route can include any suitable wired or wireless route connecting audio circuitry to an audio output component that includes digital to analog conversion circuitry e.g. a speaker earbud or earpiece . In some embodiments audio output route can include for example embedded speakers a headphone jack a 30 pin connector that includes line out and USB audio routes a Bluetooth audio route routes supporting the A2DP or HFP protocols or combinations of these.

A user can interact with the device using any suitable interface. In some embodiments electronic device can include input interface which can provide inputs to input output circuitry of electronic device . Input interface can include any suitable input interface such as for example a button keypad dial a click wheel or a touch screen. In some embodiments electronic device may include a capacitive sensing mechanism or a multi touch capacitive sensing mechanism. In some embodiments input interface can include a button or switch. The button or switch can be associated with a particular device operation. For example electronic device can include a button associated with toggling a ring and silent mode. As another example electronic device can include two buttons for controlling the volume of audio output along audio output routes .

In some embodiments one or more accessories or accessory components or devices can be connected to electronic device . The accessory can be coupled to the electronic device using any suitable approach including for example using accessory interface . Accessory interface can include any suitable interface for establishing a communications path between an accessory and the electronic device. For example accessory interface can include a wireless interface over which data can be transferred e.g. a WiFi or Bluetooth interface . As another example accessory interface can include a wired interface such as a connector to which the accessory can be coupled e.g. directly or via a cable . Any suitable connector can be used including for example USB Firewire 30 pin or combinations of these. Any suitable accessory can be coupled to electronic device including for example input interfaces e.g. a keyboard or a mouse output interfaces e.g. speakers or a projector or combinations of these.

In the example of electronic device can be coupled to keyboard accessory . The electronic device can use any accessory interface to connect to accessory including for example a wireless interface e.g. a Bluetooth interface or a physical connector. For example electronic device can couple connector to corresponding connector of accessory to enable a communications path between the devices. Connectors and can include for example 30 pin connectors USB connectors or combinations of these. In some embodiments accessory can be part of a dock or include a receiving portion for supporting and retaining electronic device . Keyboard accessory can include any suitable interface including for example buttons . In particular keyboard accessory can include mute button .

The electronic device can provide any suitable audio output to a user of the device. In some embodiments the particular audio available for output as well as the particular routes available for providing the audio can be determined based on the audio output mode of the device. In some embodiments the electronic device can include a sound mode. A user can enable the sound mode using any suitable approach including for example by toggling a switch e.g. button to a sound option. In response to enabling the sound mode the electronic device can display an overlay to identify the current mode to the user. is a schematic view of an illustrative display indicating that a sound mode is enabled in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Display can include interface element associated with the sound mode. In response to receiving an input enabling the sound mode the electronic device can overlay element on the display for a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds . In some embodiments interface element can be partially transparent so that elements displayed underneath interface element remain visible. Element can fade after a particular duration has lapsed.

When the sound mode is enabled the electronic device can output any suitable audio. In some embodiments the electronic device can provide any or all audio generated by the device system or by applications to one or more audio output routes. In some embodiments the generated audio or the process generating or providing the audio can identify one or more audio output routes to use. Alternatively the electronic device can select a particular audio output route to use based on the status of the device. For example if a headphone is plugged into an audio jack or if a line out audio component is coupled to the device the headphone or audio component can preempt an audio output route associated with speakers of the device.

The device can output audio at any suitable volume. In some embodiments the audio can be output at a user defined volume for example set by a volume slider displayed on screen or by inputs detected on a volume button of the device e.g. buttons or . Some audio output can instead or in addition be provided at a fixed volume level. In particular some audio can be provided on audio output routes that do not support volume control. Instead the volume control is provided using the component or accessory at the end of the audio output route that outputs the audio e.g. a speaker . Such audio routes can include for example line out audio routes e.g. within a 30 pin connector route audio provided using the Bluetooth A2DP protocol or other such routes. The audio output by the device can then be provided at a fixed line level volume e.g. 60 of full volume .

In some cases a user may wish to limit the audio output by the device. To do so a user can enable a silent mode. For example a user can toggle a switch e.g. button to disable the sound mode and instead enable the silent mode. In response to enabling the silent mode the electronic device can display an overlay to identify the current mode to the user. is a schematic view of an illustrative display indicating that a silent mode is enabled in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Display can include interface element associated with the silent mode. Interface element can have any suitable appearance including for example a variation of the sound interface element e.g. interface element with a line through it . In response to receiving an input enabling the silent mode the electronic device can overlay element on the display for a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds . In some embodiments interface element can be partially transparent so that elements displayed underneath interface element remain visible. Element can fade after a particular duration has lapsed.

In the silent mode only some of the audio available for output by the device may be provided to one or more audio output routes e.g. only registered audio . In particular the audio provided by each application or process of the device can be categorized in one or more categories or tagged with one or more attributes. In one implementation the audio provided by each application or process can be categorized as either output in silent mode or not output in silent mode. For example audio can be associated with one of several categories e.g. audio playback or ambient audio where each of those several categories are in turn associated either with outputting the audio in silent mode or not outputting the audio in silent mode. As another example audio can instead or in addition be categorized or tagged directly as audio to output or not in the silent mode e.g. registered or not for output in the silent mode .

An application developer or other author of the process providing audio for output can decide whether or not the audio should be output in the silent mode. In some embodiments an application developer can make the determination based on the importance of the audio clip to the application and the relevance of the audio clip with respect to the functionality and purpose of the application. For example audio providing background music to a game can be categorized as audio that should not be output in a silent mode while an audio clip providing a hint or advice as part of the game can be categorized as audio that should be output in the silent mode. As another example a media playback application e.g. an application for streaming media or an application for playing back locally stored media can categorize all of the audio provided as part of the application as audio that should be output in the silent mode as the entire purpose of the application is to provide an audio output.

When audio circuitry of the device receives or identifies audio to output the audio circuitry can first determine the category associated with the audio. If the audio is associated with a category that does not permit the output of audio in silent mode e.g. unregistered audio the audio circuitry can disregard the audio. Alternatively the audio circuitry can provide the audio or information identifying the audio to another electronic device component e.g. control circuitry with an indication that the audio is not to be output while in silent mode.

In some embodiments the audio circuitry can instead or in addition determine whether an audio output route that remains available or active while in silent mode is available. For example the audio circuitry can determine whether an audio output route associated with a headphone jack e.g. plugged in headphones or a line out e.g. external speakers is available. If an enabled audio output route remains available the audio circuitry can direct the audio to the available audio output route for output to the user e.g. provide a ring tone when a communications request is received while a user is listening to a media item output through headphones . If only disabled or unauthorized audio output routes are available however e.g. only the embedded speakers of the device are available the audio circuitry may prevent the audio from being provided to the audio output routes. In one implementation audio output routes associated with audio that does not have volume control e.g. line out and A2DP audio output routes may remain enabled while in silent mode e.g. audio output along these routes remains at the line level volume .

In addition to the sound and silent modes the electronic device can include a mute mode. Contrary to the sound and silent modes however the mute mode may not be associated with a particular interface or input of the device. Instead an accessory coupled to the device can be used to enable the mute mode. For example a keyboard accessory coupled to the electronic device can include a key or other input interface e.g. mute key operative to enable the mute mode. In some embodiments however the electronic device can include an interface for enabling the mute mode e.g. a separate button or an intermediate state for the sound silent switch .

In response to enabling the mute mode the electronic device can display an overlay to identify the current mode to the user. is a schematic view of an illustrative display indicating that a mute mode is enabled in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Display can include interface element associated with the mute mode. In response to receiving an input enabling the mute mode the electronic device can overlay element on the display for a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds . In some embodiments interface element can be partially transparent so that elements displayed underneath interface element remain visible. Element can fade after a particular duration has lapsed.

When the mute mode is enabled the electronic device can prevent all audio from being output along all audio output routes. For example the electronic device can prevent audio from being output from current audio output routes e.g. embedded speakers of the device available audio output routes e.g. through an audio jack to headphones that could be plugged into the jack or future audio output routes e.g. a new accessory connected via Bluetooth . In particular the mute mode can prevent audio from being output along audio output routes that do not include volume control e.g. line out and A2DP by setting the output volume to 0 and not a line level volume unlike the silent mode.

When the electronic device is disconnected from the accessory e.g. the wireless accessory moves out of range of the device or the wired accessory is disconnected from a connector of the device the electronic device can maintain the mute mode of the device. In particular because the mute mode can be enabled using the accessory it may be desirable to retain the mute mode when the device is disconnected from the accessory so that a user can make use of the mute mode without the accessory. In some cases however disconnecting the accessory from the device can instead disable the mute mode and return the device to the silent or sound mode e.g. based on the state of the sound silent switch .

A user can disengage the mute mode using any suitable approach. In some embodiments the user can disengage the mute mode by providing a corresponding input on the accessory e.g. pressing the mute key . As another example the user can adjust the volume of the device. For example the user can provide an input to increase or decrease the volume using the accessory e.g. press a volume up or volume down key . As still another example the user can provide an input to adjust the volume using the device e.g. press a volume up or volume down button of the device or slide a volume slider displayed on a display interface . In response to receiving an instruction to adjust the volume the electronic device can disengage the mute mode and return the output volume to its previous level prior to engaging the mute mode. Alternatively the electronic device can disengage the mute mode and adjust the previous volume level in a manner corresponding to the received volume adjustment input e.g. raise or lower the previous volume based on the input received .

In response to disengaging the mute mode the electronic device can display a corresponding indication to the user. For example the electronic device can display one of the interface elements corresponding to the current mode of the device e.g. sound or silent . As another example the electronic device can display a variation of the interface element displayed when the mute mode was engaged. is a schematic view of an illustrative display indicating that a mute mode is disabled in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Display can include interface element associated with the un mute mode. Interface element can have any suitable appearance including for example a variation of the mute interface element e.g. interface element with waves indicating that sound is emitted . In response to receiving an input disabling the mute mode the electronic device can overlay element on the display for a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds . In some embodiments interface element can be partially transparent so that elements displayed underneath interface element remain visible. Element can fade after a particular duration has lapsed.

In some embodiments the mute mode and the sound silent modes can be independent and additive. In other words the mute mode can prevent all audio from being output by the device along all audio output routes and changing between the silent and sound modes can have no effect on the mute mode e.g. no sound will be output despite switching between the sound and silent modes because the mute mode remains enabled . In addition disabling or disengaging the mute mode may not automatically re enable all audio. Instead the audio output of the device can then be controlled by the mode set by the sound silent interface e.g. the sound silent switch of the device .

In some embodiments the mute mode can operate with a few variations to the description above. In one implementation one or more particular audio outputs can be provided along particular audio output routes despite the mute mode. The particular audio outputs can be limited to system audio e.g. audio associated with operating system operations or audio associated with applications provided by the operating system or device manufacturer such that audio from an application operating on the device cannot preempt the mute mode. For example audio associated with a feature for finding my device e.g. causing the device to ring remotely so that it can be found when it is lost or misplaced can be output. As another example clock alarms can be output in the mute mode as well as ongoing communications operations audio e.g. enable telephone audio in the mute mode . As still another example ringtones associated with incoming communications request and audio from newly initiated communications operations can be provided in the mute mode.

The audio authorized to be output in the mute mode can be provided using any suitable audio output route. For example the audio can be provided only using routes that do not have volume control. As another example the audio can be provided using routes other than the embedded speakers of the device e.g. requiring another component for outputting the audio such as headphones . As still another example any audio output route can be enabled for the authorized audio. In some cases the authorized routes can vary based on the particular audio e.g. authorize find my device and alarm clock audio along the device speaker audio output route but do not authorize ongoing communications audio .

In some embodiments other inputs can be used to disengage the mute mode. In one particular implementation switching the device to the sound mode can also disengage the mute mode. For example a user may expect a mute mode to be disengaged when a sound mode which can be inconsistent with the mute mode is enabled on the device. The user can enable the sound mode while the device is in the mute mode using any suitable approach including for example by changing a sound silent switch of the device from a silent setting to a sound setting. In some embodiments however changing the switch from a sound setting to a silent setting can have no effect on the mute mode. In this implementation the mute mode and the sound silent modes are not independent and additive but interact when the mute mode is initially enabled and an instruction to enable the sound mode is received.

If the electronic device determines that the mute mode is enabled process can move to step and prevent all audio output along all audio output channels. For example audio circuitry of the device may not send any signals along an audio output route. In some embodiments some specific audio outputs may be authorized along specific audio output routes. For example some system audio e.g. associated with find my device functionality can always be output. If the received audio is identified as being authorized for output even in the mute mode the electronic device can output the audio along one or more audio output routes e.g. along all available audio output routes . Process can then end at step .

If at step the electronic device instead determines that the mute mode is not enabled process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine whether a silent mode is enabled. For example the electronic device can determine whether a switch of the device having two available states is in the state associated with the silent mode. If the electronic device determines that the silent mode is enabled process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine whether the received audio is authorized or registered to be output along a particular audio output route when the silent mode is enabled and output the audio only if it is authorized or if the audio is registered for the mode. For example the electronic device can determine one or more attributes of the audio e.g. a category or tag associated with the audio and determine the output privileges of the audio based on the attributes. The electronic device can output the audio if authorized along any suitable audio output route. For example the audio may be associated with a particular audio output route. Alternatively the audio may only be authorized for output along a particular route. In some embodiments the audio can be output along several audio output routes simultaneously. Process can then move to step and end.

If at step the electronic device instead determines that the silent mode is not enabled process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine that the sound mode is enabled and allow all audio output along all audio output routes. For example control circuitry of the electronic device can direct the audio circuitry to provide the received audio output to one or more audio output routes. Process can then end at step .

At step the electronic device can output audio in accordance with the state of a sound silent switch. For example audio circuitry of the device can determine whether the device is in a silent mode or in a sound mode and output received audio from device applications or processes in accordance with the determined mode. The electronic device can determine the current mode using any suitable approach including for example by determining the physical state of a switch of the device e.g. a physical switch that a user can actuate and move between two states . Process can then end at step . If at step the electronic device instead determines that an instruction to enable the mute mode was received process can move to step .

At step the electronic device can prevent most audio from being output. For example audio circuitry of the device can prevent all audio from being output except for specific audio clips associated with process of high importance. In one implementation the electronic device can prevent the output of all audio except for audio associated with one or more of a find my device process alarm clock communications audio e.g. voice call audio ringtones and vibration. At step the electronic device can determine whether an un mute instruction was received from the accessory. For example the electronic device can determine whether a user provided an input on the accessory to un mute the device e.g. pressed a mute key a second time . If the electronic device determines that an un mute instruction was received process can move to step described above.

If at step the electronic device instead determines that no un mute instruction was received from the accessory process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine whether an instruction to change the output volume was received. For example the electronic device can determine whether an input corresponding to a volume change was provided to an interface of the accessory e.g. pressing a volume up or volume down key . As another example the electronic device can determine whether an input was provided to an interface element of the device associated with volume control. Such interface elements can include for example one or more buttons on the device housing e.g. volume up and down buttons or a displayed volume control interface e.g. a volume control bar and slider displayed on a screen . If an input was provided the electronic device can determine that a user intended to disable or disengage the mute mode and can move to step described above.

If at step the electronic device instead determines that no instruction to change the output volume was received process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine whether a sound silent switch of the device was moved from a state associated with the silent mode to a state associated with the sound mode. For example the electronic device can determine whether a physical switch of the device housing was moved to reflect a user s intent to enable the sound mode. If the electronic device determines that the sound silent switch of the device was not moved to a state associated with the sound mode process can return to step described above. In some embodiments however changing the state of the sound silent switch may have no effect on the mute mode and process can return to step independent of the change in state of the switch. In some embodiments the electronic device can detect a change in the state of the sound silent switch to the silent mode. In such embodiments the electronic device can move to step and disengage the mute mode as described above or disregard the change in state and return to step described above e.g. changing the sound silent switch to silent mode has no effect on the mute mode .

If at step the electronic device instead determines that the sound silent switch of the device was moved to a state associated with the sound mode process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine that the sound mode is enabled and enable all audio output along all audio output routes. For example control circuitry of the electronic device can direct the audio circuitry to provide audio received from one or more applications or processes to one or more audio output routes for output to the user. Process can then end at step . It will be understood that the order of some of the steps of processes and is illustrative and can be changed. For example the order of steps and can be changed or the steps can be performed simultaneously.

In some embodiments the audio circuitry can make use of one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which further may include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API may provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

An API is an interface implemented by a program code component API implementing component that allows a different program code component API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

An API can allow a developer of an API calling component which may be a third party developer to leverage specified features provided by one or more API implementing components. An API can be a source code interface that a computer system or program library provides in order to support requests for services from an application. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

In some embodiments the API implementing component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementing component. In other embodiments the API implementing component may itself call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementing component.

An API defines the language and parameters that API calling components use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing component. For example an API calling component accesses the specified features of the API implementing component through one or more API calls or invocations embodied for example by function or method calls exposed by the API and passes data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementing component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling API calling component and an API implementing component. Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementing component. Thus the API calling component may declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementing component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementing component. By way of example the API implementing component and the API calling component may be an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module it should be understood that the API implementing component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other . API implementing components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some embodiments an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other embodiments an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these embodiments the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API. An Application Framework may in these embodiments provide a main event loop for a program that responds to various events defined by the Framework. The API allows the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementing component or a remote component i.e. on a different data processing system from the API implementing component that communicates with the API implementing component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing component may also act as an API calling component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementing component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API may allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementing component thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementing component and the API calling component however the API may be implemented in terms of a specific programming language.

It will be appreciated that API implementing component can include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through API and are not available to the API calling component . It should be understood that API calling component may be on the same system as API implementing component or may be located remotely and accesses API implementing component using API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with API it should be understood that other API calling components which may be written in different languages or the same language than API calling component may use API . In Software Stack an exemplary embodiment applications can make calls to Services A or B using Service API and to Operating System OS using OS API. Services A and B can make calls to OS using OS API.

Although many of the embodiments of the present invention are described herein with respect to personal computing devices it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to personal computing applications but is generally applicable to other applications.

The invention is preferably implemented by software but can also be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include read only memory random access memory optical disks e.g. CD ROMs DVDs or Blu Ray discs magnetic discs magnetic tape and flash memory devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Insubstantial changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalently within the scope of the claims. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements.

The above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation.

