---

title: Machine type communication preregistration
abstract: A method and apparatus for machine type communication (MTC) preregistration are provided. The methods provide single or periodic preregistrations and may be machine to machine (M2M) application function (AF) or device (MTC user equipment based). The devices in the system may be divided into groups and accessed by on a group Internet Protocol (IP) address. Two wake up cycles may be provided, one for control and one for uploading information (a reporting cycle). During the control cycle, the devices may wake up and listen to the control channel for any paging messages. Depending on the paging information, individual devices or the entire group may access the system. In the reporting cycle, all the devices may wake up and access the system to connect to the M2M system to upload data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185673&OS=09185673&RS=09185673
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 09185673
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101124
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 264 531 filed Nov. 25 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Machine to Machine M2M communication such as machine type communications MTC may include data communication between entities that do not necessarily include human interaction. Accordingly a method and apparatus for machine type communication preregistration would be advantageous.

A method and apparatus for machine type communication MTC preregistration are provided. The methods provide single or periodic preregistrations and may be machine to machine M2M application function AF or device MTC user equipment based . The devices in the system may be divided into groups and accessed by on a group Internet Protocol IP address. Two wake up cycles may be provided one for control and one for uploading information a reporting cycle . During the control cycle the devices may wake up and listen to the control channel for any paging messages. Depending on the paging information individual devices or the entire group may access the system. In the reporting cycle all the devices may wake up and access the system to connect to the M2M system to upload data.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics a machine type communication MTC device and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. It will be appreciated that the WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

The RAN may include eNode Bs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNode Bs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNode Bs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the eNode Bs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNode B for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNode Bs may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNode Bs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network shown in may include a mobility management gateway MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNode B handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Machine to Machine M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC may be used in a variety of areas. In the area of security M2M communication may be used in surveillance systems in backup of telephone landlines in the control of physical accesses e.g. to buildings and in car driver security. In the area of tracking and tracing M2M communication may be used for fleet management order management Pay As You Drive PAYD applications asset tracking navigation traffic information applications road tolling traffic optimization and steering. In the area of payment systems M2M communication may be used in point of sales vending machines customer loyalty applications and gaming machines. In healthcare M2M communication may be used for remotely monitoring vital signs supporting the elderly or handicapped in web access telemedicine points and in remote diagnostics. In the area of remote maintenance control M2M communication may be used in programmable logic controllers PLCs sensors lighting pumps valves elevator control vending machine control and vehicle diagnostics. In the area of metering M2M communication may be used in applications related to power gas water heating grid control and industrial metering. Additionally M2M communication based on machine type communication MTC technology may be used in areas such as customer service.

M2M communication may be used to implement PAYD systems in the area of car insurance. For example an insurance company may charge a driver of a car based on the usage of the car instead of on a fixed premium. To accomplish this the car is equipped with a M2M wireless transmit receive unit WTRU a GPS device and various other sensors that transmit the data to the insurance company. The M2M WTRU may include a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC . The insurance company may set the rate charged to the driver based on the received data. The insurance company may have a contract with the operator of the wireless network by which the M2M WTRU communicates to allow the WTRU to use the operator s network.

In the area of tracking and tracing a car rental company may equip a car with a M2M WTRU to obtain information about the location of the car as it is driven. In the building industry for example M2M WTRUs may be used to keep track of expensive tools or other equipment. In the oil industry M2M WTRUs may be used to keep track of containers.

Many metering devices remain largely untouched after their installation. In some industries for example an installed meter may remain untouched for eight or more years after installation. In such a circumstance the IUCCs in the M2M WTRUs need to be protected. If this is not properly accomplished it may be possible for the connection to the utility to be cut thereby facilitating fraud. Additionally if the utility and or the operator of the wireless network by which the M2M WTRU communications change problems may occur. For example if the utility customer changes their utility supplier from one company to another the new utility supplier may not have a contract with the same network operator as the original utility supplier. This circumstance may be addressed by complex accounting mechanisms or the new utility company may need to send out a service person to install a new M2M WTRU or configure the installed M2M WTRU. However both of these approaches are costly and error prone.

Depending on its implementation M2M communication may be different from some current communication models. For example M2M communication may involve new or different market scenarios. M2M communications may also differ from some current technologies in that M2M communication may involve a large number of WTRUs and or may involve very little traffic per WTRU. Additionally relative to some current technologies M2M communication may involve lower costs and less effort to deploy.

M2M communications may take advantage of deployed wireless networks based on Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and or other technologies such as those developed by the Institute for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and 3GPP2. M2M communications may use networks based on these technologies to deliver business solutions in a cost effective manner. In a circumstance involving ubiquitous deployment of wireless networks the availability of the wireless networks may facilitate and or encourage the deployment and use of M2M WTRUs. Additionally further enhancements to these technologies may provide additional opportunities for the deployment of M2M based solutions. Table 1 summarizes the above described implementations for MTC applications.

An M2M application function AF may perform preregistration de registration Internet Protocol IP activation IP de activation on behalf of an MTC WTRU in the network. The M2M AF may be found in a network element. Alternatively the M2M AF may be a stand alone device in a communications network. An example M2M AF includes one or more transmitters and receivers to communicate with one or more WTRUs or other elements in the communications network.

Proximal MTC WTRUs such as MTC WTRUs in a cell or geographic area may use group based identification such as International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI or Packet Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity P TMSI for network access. In addition a wake up cycle for an AF and an MTC WTRU may be synchronized for example where the AF and the MTC WTRU are associated with different groups. The MTC WTRUs in the same group may be synchronized to wake up at certain time. Different groups may be synchronized by the system network to maximize the overall system utility and performance and to prevent congestions.

Preregistration is a way that the system instates instantiate the software states access State mobility managements state and or session management states for the MTC WTRUs to gain access to the system and to avoid the normal procedures over the air interface. This is done to accelerate access and reduce the number of messages over the air.

The M2M AF may preregister IP activate or both for an MTC group in a timely manner such as at the beginning of each cycle. After the MTC WTRUs in a group complete data transfer and control updates related IP addresses may be deactivated for example by the AF. In addition the group may be deregistered for example by the AF. An MTC WTRU such as a single registration MTC WTRU may be updated via a common channel such as a paging or broadcast message using a group identification and an account number. For period registration a control cycle may coincide with a report cycle and updates may be performed when all members of the group are awake. The network may initiate or trigger an MTC WTRU to access the network and perform defined functions during a wake up cycle.

The M2M AF may preregister and IP activate an IP address for an MTC group and the network may communicate traffic channel information such as data plan information and IP addresses to the group for network access. During the reporting period control signaling may be done using traffic channel signaling on top of IP. For example signaling on top of IP may be utilized in the case when the system or network performs maintenance operations or a software upgrade or downloading new information configuration. These operations may be accomplished during the reporting period after or before the devices upload their data to the system or network. An attempt by a preregistered MTC WTRU to access the network using a group ID may be denied. An MTC WTRU may not perform registration independently.

For illustration purposes four MTC device groups are shown and may be denoted as MTC device group MTC device group MTC device group and MTC device group . Each MTC device group may include multiple MTC devices. For example MTC device group may include MTC devices N MTC device group may include MTC devices M MTC device group may include MTC devices K and MTC device group may include MTC devices J. Each MTC device group may be associated with a cell identifier and a group identification G ID number. For example MTC device group may be associated with cell and G ID x MTC device group may be associated with cell q and G ID p MTC device group may be associated with cell v and G ID z and MTC device group may be associated with cell Y and G ID s. also shows a M2M user that may be in communication with a M2M AF which in turn may be in communication with a core network . MTC device groups and may be in communication with CN .

Operationally the M2M user may send a request to the M2M AF to send information to a group of MTC devices . The request may be a periodic trigger event based trigger other like triggers or a combination thereof. In response to the M2M user the M2M AF may send a service request or trigger a time based event to the CN . The service request or trigger may include the list of cells or corresponding G IDs cycle based preregistration de registration request cycle based IP activation deactivation request and a time window. A time window may be defined as the time when the group wakes up. The CN may then send a request for cycle based preregistration de registration cycle based IP activation deactivation and communicate channel information to the G IDs . Channel information may comprise channel ID dedicated or a shared channel type of modulation timings frame formats etc. Although each cell is shown separately for simplicity it should be apparent that cells may overlap. An MTC WTRU may be associated with one or more cells or groups. A cell may be associated with a channel ID and an IP address.

For illustration purposes four MTC device groups are shown and may be denoted as MTC device group MTC device group MTC device group and MTC device group . Each MTC device group may include multiple MTC devices. For example MTC device group may include MTC devices N MTC device group may include MTC devices M MTC device group may include MTC devices K and MTC device group may include MTC devices J. Each MTC device group may be associated with a cell identifier and a group identification G ID number. For example MTC device group may be associated with cell and G ID x MTC device group may be associated with cell q and G ID p MTC device group may be associated with cell v and G ID z and MTC device group may be associated with cell Y and G ID s. also shows a M2M user that may be in communication with a M2M AF which in turn may be in communication with a core network . MTC device groups and may be in communication with CN .

Operationally the M2M user may send a request to the M2M AF to send information to a group of MTC devices . The request may be a periodic trigger event based trigger other like triggers or a combination thereof. In response to the M2M user the M2M AF may send a service request or trigger a time based event to the CN . The service request or trigger may include the list of cells or corresponding G IDs an initial or one preregistration request an IP activation deactivation request and a time window. The CN may then send a request for an initial or one group preregistration request cycle based IP activation deactivation requests and communicate user plan channel information and IP addressing to G IDs . Channel information may comprise channel ID dedicated or a shared channel type of modulation timings frame formats etc. Although each cell is shown separately for simplicity it should be apparent that cells may overlap. An MTC WTRU may be associated with one or more cells or groups. A cell may be associated with a channel ID and an IP address.

The M2M AF may preregister IP activate or both for an MTC group in a timely manner such as at the beginning of each cycle. The network may communicate traffic channel information such as data plan information and IP addresses to the group for network access. After the MTC WTRUs in a group complete data transfer and control updates related IP addresses may be deactivated for example by the AF. In addition the group may be deregistered for example by the AF. An MTC WTRU such as a single registration MTC WTRU may be updated via a common channel such as a paging or broadcast message using a group identification and an account number.

Network controlled periodic M2M AF preregistration and IP allocation process may begin once all MTC WTRUs are powered up . Registration is done periodically based upon a wake up all MTC WTRUs power up . The M2M AF may perform preregistration using the group ID and may trigger IP address allocation . The network may perform authorization and authentication start an M2M state machine for an MTC group allocate an MTC WTRUs group based P TMSI allocate or activate MTC WTRUs group based IP addresses send an acknowledgment ACK to indicate the activation process to the M2M AF and update the MTC WTRUs with access channel information IP address allocation and user plane radio resource information .

The MTC WTRUs may start transmission. Transmission may be started based on a preconfigured order a network defined order or randomly . The M2M operator may require all MTC WTRUs to register with the M2M server . If all MTC WTRUs may need to register then each MTC WTRU may use uniform resource identifier uniform resource location URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on an M2M account number or any other identifier such as a telephone number extension MSISDN and the like. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . If all MTC WTRUs do not need to register then the M2M AF may perform preregistration or the first master or alpha WTRU may perform registration . Once completed all the following MTC WTRUs may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then get control updates . If the last transmission is complete the M2M AF may deregister with the network and the network may release the IP addresses and radio resources . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle . Otherwise if this is not the last transmission the MTC WTRUs may begin a sleep cycle .

The MTC WTRUs may wake up at the end of the sleep cycle and may restart the method. The sleep cycle may be followed by a wake up cycle after which the periodic AF M2M preregistration and IP allocation process starts again. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof.

The M2M AF may preregister IP activate or both for an MTC group in a timely manner such as at the beginning of each cycle. The network may communicate traffic channel information such as data plan information and IP addresses to the group for network access. After the MTC WTRUs in a group complete data transfer and control updates related IP addresses may be deactivated for example by the AF. In addition the group may be deregistered for example by the AF. An MTC WTRU such as a single registration MTC WTRU may be updated via a common channel such as a paging or broadcast message using a group identification and an account number.

Network controlled single M2M AF preregistration and periodic IP allocation process may begin once all MTC WTRUs are powered up . The M2M AF may perform preregistration using the group ID . The network may perform authorization and authentication start an M2M state machine for an MTC group and allocate a group based P TMSI .

The M2M AF may trigger IP address allocation . The network may allocate or activate group based IP addresses send an acknowledgment ACK to indicate the activation process to the M2M AF allocate and update the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

The MTC WTRUs may start transmission. Transmission may be started based on a preconfigured order a network defined order or randomly . The M2M operator may require all MTC WTRUs to register with the M2M server . If all MTC WTRUs may need to register then each MTC WTRU may use uniform resource identifier uniform resource location URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on an M2M account number or any other identifier such as a telephone number extension MSISDN and the like. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . If all MTC WTRUs do not need to register then the M2M AF may perform preregistration or the first master or alpha WTRU may perform registration . Once completed all the following MTC WTRUs may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then get control updates . If the last transmission is complete the M2M AF may trigger release of IP address the network may maintain registration and release radio resources and IP address . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle . Otherwise if this is not the last transmission the MTC WTRUs may begin a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a M2M AF or M2M user deciding to perform individual or system based updates activate IP address allocation in the network and forwarding a service request with the MTC ID such as an individual ID or a group ID. The network may send a page with an MTC ID. Also an MTC WTRU may wake up from a sleep cycle and listen for system update information for example on a control channel CCH or an IP multicast . The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof.

In response to a determination that the MTC WTRU is in a control cycle the MTC may determine if it has received a paging message . If it has not received a paging message it may continue to listen for a system update. If it has received a paging message it may determine if the paging message is a group paging message . If the paging message is not a group paging message the MTC WTRU may then proceed to obtain a radio resource .

After performing one or more actions to obtain a radio resource the MTC WTRU may obtain user plane radio resource information . If required the MTC WTRU may use URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on an M2M account number or any other identifier such as a telephone number extension MSISDN and the like. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle .

If the paging message is a group paging message the registration method may be restarted based on the network allocating and updating the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

In response to a determination that the MTC WTRU is not in a control cycle the MTC WTRU may perform a reporting cycle and the registration method may be restarted based on the network allocating and updating the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

After the determinations of whether the group page message was sent and the MTC WTRU is not in a control cycle update the MTC WTRUs may start transmission. Transmission may be started based on a preconfigured order a network defined order or randomly . The M2M operator may require all MTC WTRUs to register with the M2M server . If all MTC WTRUs may need to register then each MTC WTRU may use uniform resource identifier uniform resource location URI URL to perform service registrations . The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . If all MTC WTRUs do not need to register then the M2M AF may perform preregistration or the first master or alpha WTRU may perform registration . Once completed all the following MTC WTRUs may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then get control updates . If the last transmission is complete the M2M AF trigger release of an IP address the network maintains registration and may release radio resources and IP address . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle . Otherwise if this is not the last transmission the MTC WTRUs may begin a sleep cycle .

The M2M AF may preregister IP activate or both for an MTC group in a timely manner such as at the beginning of each cycle. The network may communicate traffic channel information such as data plan information and IP addresses to the group for network access. After the MTC WTRUs in a group complete data transfer and control updates related IP addresses may be deactivated for example by the AF. In addition the group may be deregistered for example by the AF. An MTC WTRU such as a single registration MTC WTRU may be updated via a common channel such as a paging or broadcast message using a group identification and an account number.

Network controlled single M2M AF preregistration and IP allocation process may begin once all MTC WTRUs are powered up . The M2M AF may perform preregistration using the group ID . The network may perform authorization and authentication start an M2M state machine for an MTC group and allocate a group based P TMSI .

The M2M AF may trigger IP address allocation . The network may allocate or activate group based IP addresses send an acknowledgment ACK to indicate the activation process to the M2M AF allocate and update the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

The MTC WTRUs may start transmission. Transmission may be started based on a preconfigured order a network defined order or randomly . The M2M operator may require all MTC WTRUs to register with the M2M server . If all MTC WTRUs may need to register then each MTC WTRU may use uniform resource identifier uniform resource location URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on an M2M account number or any other identifier such as a telephone number extension MSISDN and the like. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . If all MTC WTRUs do not need to register then the M2M AF may perform preregistration or the first master or alpha WTRU may perform registration . Once completed all the following MTC WTRUs may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then get control updates . If the last transmission is complete the M2M AF may indicate end of cycle and the network may maintain registration and IP addresses and release radio resources . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle . Otherwise if this is not the last transmission the MTC WTRUs may begin a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a M2M AF or M2M user deciding to perform individual or system based updates forward a service request to the network with the MTC ID such as an individual ID or a group ID. Also an MTC WTRU may wake up from a sleep cycle and listen for system update information for example on a control channel CCH or an IP multicast . The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof.

In response to a determination that the MTC WTRU is in a control cycle the MTC may determine if it has received a paging message . If it has not received a paging message it may continue to listen for a system update. If it has received a paging message it may determine if the paging message is a group paging message . If the paging message is not a group paging message the MTC WTRU may then proceed to obtain a radio resource .

After performing one or more actions to obtain a radio resource the MTC WTRU may obtain user plane radio resource information . If required the MTC WTRU may use URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on an M2M account number or any other identifier such as a telephone number extension MSISDN and the like. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle .

If the paging message is a group paging message the registration method may be restarted based on the network allocating and updating the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

In response to a determination that the MTC WTRU is not in a control cycle the MTC WTRU may perform a reporting cycle and the registration method may be restarted based on the network allocating and updating the MTC WTRUs with access channel information and IP address allocation. The update may include user plane radio resource information .

After the determinations of whether the group page message was sent and MTC WTRU is not in a control cycle update the MTC WTRUs may start transmission. Transmission may be started based on a preconfigured order a network defined order or randomly . The M2M operator may require all MTC WTRUs to register with the M2M server . If all MTC WTRUs may need to register then each MTC WTRU may use uniform resource identifier uniform resource location URI URL to perform service registrations . The URI URL may be based on a M2M account number. The MTC WTRU may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . If all MTC WTRUs do not need to register then the M2M AF may perform preregistration or the first master or alpha WTRU may perform registration . Once completed all the following MTC WTRUs may access the M2M x server and upload data using an account based URI URL . The MTC WTRUs may then get control updates . If the last transmission is complete the M2M AF may deregister with the network and the network may release the IP addresses and radio resources . The MTC WTRUs may then begin a sleep cycle . Otherwise if this is not the last transmission the MTC WTRUs may begin a sleep cycle .

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. In addition the methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station RNC or any host computer.

