---

title: Integrating social network data with search results
abstract: A user of a social network may submit a search query relating to one or more topics to a search engine indexing a set of data items, but the search results, while authoritative and informative, may be highly impersonal with respect to the user. Conversely, the user may search for social data items within the social network relating to the topics, and such social data items may be more highly personalized to the user, but may also be inaccurate or incomplete. Instead, the search query may be applied to both the search engine and the social network, and the selected search results and social data items may be integrated into a presentation featuring both authoritative and personalized information about the topics associated with the search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554756&OS=08554756&RS=08554756
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08554756
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
Within the field of computing many scenarios involve the presentation of a set of search results in response to a search query generated by a user. The user may submit the search query against many types of search engines indexing many types of data sets including a set of web resources including a small set of pages such as an intranet or the pages of a website a set of media objects such as images or musical performances a set of records in a database or a set of advertisements for various products and services. The search results may then be presented to the user in many ways e.g. as a set of uniform resource identifiers URIs to the search results comprising web resources or as a tiled set of thumbnails representing various images selected from an image database. 

A more recent trend within the field of computing is the rise of social networking wherein users may establish associations representing relationships with other users and may share data of interest with all or some associated users. In this context a user may establish a social profile comprising data that identifies various aspects of the user to associated users such as demographic information a set of interests such as hobbies or professional skills and a set of resources that are interesting to the user. Users may choose to share certain social data items with other users e.g. public or targeted messages images such as photos files and references to interesting resources such as a web page of a website. The user may also choose to draw attention to social data items shared by other users e.g. by reposting the social data items to appear within a news feed associated with the user. The social network may permit the user to specify the extent of sharing e.g. whether a social data item is to be shared with specified individual users or groups of users with any associated user who has an association with the user with any user of the social network or with users outside of the social network. In this manner users may share social data items over the social network with other users.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user seeking information about a particular topic may consider alternative techniques for retrieving this information. As a first example the user may formulate a search query regarding the topic and submit the search query to an appropriate search engine e.g. a web search engine that may yield references to websites discussing the topic a product search engine such as provided by an e commerce site that may yield products and possibly product reviews matching the search query or an image search engine that may yield images associated with the topic. However these search results are likely to be impersonal e.g. not taking into account the details of the user. As a second example the user may search for social data items within the social network that relate to the topic in order to retrieve information that is personal to the user e.g. deriving from the social network of the user which may have similar backgrounds education levels and beliefs as the user. However this endeavor may be inadequate in several respects. Some social network might not permit a broad search of the social network for social data items associated with a topic or search query or may only permit limited searching of a small set of social data items and manual searching may be time consuming and low yield. Additionally if the social network of the user e.g. the set of associated users having an association with the user is comparatively disinterested in or uninformed about the topic a search of the social network may yield little information or inaccurate information. Therefore it may be inefficient for the user to search only the social network for information about the topic.

In view of these considerations techniques are presented herein that permit a user to submit a search query and to receive a search result set that includes both authoritative information written by highly trusted information sources and personalized information written by users who are close to the user and who may share similar opinions. These techniques involve executing the search query on a search engine to receive a set of search results while also identifying one or more topics associated with the search query and searching the social network for social data items associated with the topic. The search results returned by the search engine may be combined with the social data items retrieved from the social network to present to the user an aggregated set of search results featuring both reliable information and personalized information. By examining the combined search results the user may receive information about the topics associated with the search query both from within the social network of the user and from the broader impersonal set of information that is indexed by the search engine.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing two common scenarios and sets of techniques have arisen that according to the present disclosure may share a nexus of functionality. The first scenario involves the application of a search query generated by a user to a search engine indexing a data set to produce a set of search results. Many such search engines have been devised to apply search queries to many types of search engines e.g. a web search engine configured to index a set of web resources such as websites of various web pages a media database configured to index various properties of a set of media objects such as images music or videos and an advertisement database configured to select advertisements from an advertisement set that are targeted based on the details of a user. Many types of queries may also be accepted and applied to these search engines such as keyword queries natural language queries sometimes received as speech through a speech recognition engine logical queries specifying sets of criteria connected by Boolean operators and queries specified in a search query language such as a structured query language SQL or variant thereof. The search results may also be provided in many forms such as a simple list of uniform resource identifiers URIs of matching web resources a tiled set of thumbnails of matching images or a preview of a matching video.

The second scenario involves a social network where each user may each create a social profile that represents and describes the user and where the users may then establish associations representing various types of relationships with other users such as family relationships friendships acquaintanceships and professional or academic relationships. Users of the social network may also share information with other users via the social network such as public demographic information e.g. the individual s age and race academic and career history and interests e.g. hobbies skills or preferences in books and music. Users may also share different types of data items within the social network with other users. For example a user may generate many types of messages such as personal messages directed to particular users or particular user groups chat messages to be delivered to particular users participating in the chat session and public comments that may be broadly viewed by many users of the social network. A user may also share other types of data items within the social network such as documents images music videos files information stored in the social profile of the user and references to various types of resources e.g. uniform resources identifiers URIs that reference resources available on the internet such as a web page of a website. The social network may also be able to specify varying levels of privacy for respective social data items e.g. that a particular social data item is accessible only to specified users and or user groups or only by a well defined set of users such as the users having a relationship with the user generating the social data item with all users of the social network or even with users outside of the social network. Accordingly some such information may be completely public and viewable by anyone while other information may be shared only with associated users who are associated with the user by a relationship and still other information may be shared only with a subset of associated users. However a user may also permit associated users to share some of the information in the social profile with still others e.g. a user may permit friends to repost or republish a message for viewing by any other users who have established associations with the friends. 

As further illustrated in the user may participate in a social network by establishing associations within the social network with one or more associated users . These associations may comprise unidirectional associations e.g. where the user indicates an interest in content produced by the associated user or bidirectional associations e.g. where the user and the associated user agree on the existence and nature of the relationship therebetween such as a familial romantic friend acquaintance academic or professional relationship. The user may also generate a social profile comprising various types of information about the user that the user wishes to share with other users of the social network . The social network may permit user to specify that particular elements of the social profile may be accessible only to these associated users or may permit the associated users to share the social profile with other individuals such as other users who have established associations with the associated users or may be publicly accessible to any users of the social network . Similarly the user may wish to view the social profiles defined by the associated users and thus may request and review the social profiles of the associated users within the social network . Additionally the user may share many types of social data items with other users of the social network such as personal comments messages directed to particular other users such as comments about the user s beliefs and experiences messages directed to one or more other users images such as personal photos calendar related data items such as events various types of files and documents and references to resources such as uniform resource identifiers URIs referencing interesting websites or articles provided therein. The user may also choose to share these social data items with particular users within the social network with a general group of users such as all associated users having an association with the user or with any user of the social network .

These scenarios may arise frequently and in many contexts in the field of computing. For example a user may be interested in a particular topic and may consider the different options for retrieving information about the topic. As a first example the user may devise a search query associated with the topic and may submit the search query to a search engine that may index and provide as search results one or more data items regarding the topic such as links to web pages relating to the topic products associated with the topic that may be available from one or more e commerce sites or product reviews in a product reviews database or images songs videos or documents relating to the topic and stored in a media database. If the search query is submitted to a search engine indexing a suitably broad set of data items such as many websites accessible via the internet the search results may include a large set of information including many search results generated by highly well informed reliable and authoritative sources. However this type of search may fail to provide any type of personalized results that may reflect any information about the user such as the information stored in the social profile . For example if the user seeks a product recommendation of a product in a particular product area the search engine may provide search results that recommend a high quality product in the product area but may be unable to provide search results that recommend a product specifically in view of the circumstances of the user e.g. brand preferences level of consumer sophistication and a set of other products that the user already owns. The search results returned by the search engine may therefore be highly impersonal with regard to the details of the user .

As a second example the user may seek information about the topic within the social network . For example the user may generate a message soliciting information about the topic from the associated users who have associations with the user may utilize a search engine within the social network to search for social data items that may relate to the topic or may manually seek information about the topic through the social network e.g. by examining the social data items of users who may be knowledgeable about and interested in the topic. These sources of information may be more personal to the user such as the user s family friends and professional associations and the information obtained therefrom may be more personalized for the user e.g. possibly reflecting the preferences and experiences of the social group including the user which may also reflect the preferences and experiences of the user . However this option may also be inadequate in several respects. First the social network may not provide a robust search engine that is capable of searching all of the social data items that may be accessible to the user because it may be difficult to scale the indexing and search engine to accommodate the potentially massive number of social data items that may be accessible to the user . Rather the social network may provide a search engine that only examines a select set of social data items e.g. messages posted by users within a recent but brief period of time such as the preceding two weeks and this set of social data items may be too limited to provide sufficient information. Conversely a manual search of the social data items that may be accessible to the user may be time consuming and low yield. Second users of the social network of the user may be uninterested in the topic and may generate few or no social data items relating to the topic. Third users of the social network of the user may be uninformed or biased and may therefore provide incomplete or inaccurate information about the topic to the user . Therefore while the information that the user might obtain from the social network may be more highly personalized for the circumstances of the user the information may also be insufficiently reliable or complete.

In view of these circumstances presented herein are techniques that may be utilized to fulfill a search query relating to a topic and generated by a user in a manner that provides both reliable but possibly impersonal search results and personalized but possibly unreliable social data items relating to the topic. According to these techniques the search query of the user may be submitted to a search engine to retrieve a set of search results . Additionally the search query may be evaluated to identify one or more topics associated with the search query and the social data items within the social network of the user may be examined to select social data items that relate to at least one of the topics. The search results generated by the search engine may be combined with the social data items selected from the social network of the user and these results may be presented together thereby providing a composite set of results including both authoritative but impersonal and personalized but non authoritative information about the one or more topics of the search query .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of presenting personalized search results for a search query generated by a user of a social network such as the exemplary method of . In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system for presenting personalized search results for a search query generated by a user of a social network such as the exemplary system of . Some embodiments of this computer readable medium may comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk drive an optical disc or a flash memory device that is configured to store processor executable instructions configured in this manner. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein such techniques may be utilized. As a first example the search engine may be configured to index and search many types of data items including web resources such as web pages of various websites identified by a uniform resource identifier URI a set of media objects such as images video and audio recordings and text documents stored in a media library and a set of advertisements stored in an advertisement set. As a second example of this first aspect the search query may be specified in many ways such as a natural language query a keyword query a logical query featuring criteria connected by Boolean logical operations and a query specified in a structured query language SQL . As a third example of this first aspect many types of social networks may be involved such as genealogical social networks involving familial relationships among users friendship social networks involving friendships among users academic or professional social networks involving academic or business relationships among users dating social networks involving romantic associations among users and gaming social networks involving teammate relationships among users in online games. As a fourth example of this first aspect the social network of the user may be defined e.g. as all users represented within a social network that includes the user as all associated users in the social network who have an association with the user or as a subset of users e.g. users belonging to a social group that includes the user . As a fifth example of this first aspect many types of social data items may be examined within the social network of the user including textual data items images such as photos media objects such as audio and video recordings documents data sets formatted in various ways such as according to an extensible markup language XML schema and files of various types. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many scenarios wherein the techniques presented herein may be advantageously utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the architectures of implementations of these techniques. As a first example an embodiment of these techniques may be implemented by various components or devices illustrated within these scenarios. As a first variation an embodiment of these techniques may be implemented by a search engine which may upon receiving a search query from a user retrieve relevant social data items from the social network of the user to supplement the search results presented to the user . In particular this variation may involve configuring the search engine to receive from the user and store at least one social network credential and to upon receiving a search query from the user authenticating the user with the social network using the at least one social network credential in order to access the social network of the user . As a second alternative an embodiment of these techniques may be implemented by the social network which may be configured to receive a search query from a user of the social network and to supplement the social data items selected in response to the search query with search results retrieved from a search engine by the social network . As a third alternative an embodiment of these techniques may be implemented by a device operated by the user which may be configured to upon receiving a search query from the user send the search query both to a search engine and the social network may receive both the search results from the search engine and the social data items from the social network and may present these results together for the user . As a fourth alternative an independent aggregating service may be configured to aggregate the search results of a search engine and the social data results of the social network of the user and to generate a combined presentation of this information to the user .

As a second example of this second aspect the exemplary system of presents one suitable architecture of an embodiment of these techniques but other architectures may also be devised some of which may present additional advantages. As a first example the topic identifying component and the social data item selecting component may be united as a component that upon receiving the search query compares the contents of the search query to respective social items of the social network of the user to identify and select those that appear to relate to the same topics . Alternatively the system may be configured to evaluate respective social data items upon receipt from the users of the social network and to identify the topics associated with each social data item thereby building an index of social data items relating to respective topics . The embodiment may then select social data items relating to a particular topic by consulting the index and simply retrieving the identified social data items and possibly limiting these social data items based on the access privileges of the user thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many architectures upon which embodiments of these techniques may be based.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of identifying topics associated with the search query . As a first example various topics may be associated with one or more topical identifiers such as a name e.g. the recognizable name of a celebrity or a well known location a distinctive keyword or a distinctive identifier such as a uniform resource identifier URI identifying a location of a resource comprising or describing the topic . As a second example of this third aspect various natural language parsing techniques may be utilized to infer the topics based on the semantic content of the search query . As a third example of this third aspect the search engine may be able to identify one or more topics associated with the search query e.g. while evaluating the search query during the selection of data items as search results and the identification of topics by the search engine may be utilized to select associated social data items from the social network of the user . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of identifying topics associated with the search query while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of selecting social data items that are associated with the topics associated with the search query . As a first example social data items may be evaluated in many ways to identify topics associated therewith. In a first such variation respective social data items may include one or more topical identifiers associated with various topics such as a name e.g. the recognizable name of a celebrity or a well known location a distinctive keyword or a distinctive identifier such as a uniform resource identifier URI identifying a location of a resource comprising or describing the topic . In a second such variation various evaluative techniques such as natural language parsing techniques applied to textual social data items and machine vision techniques applied to image based social data items may be utilized to infer the topics associated with the social data items .

As a second example of this fourth aspect the timing of identifying the topics associated with the social data items may vary. In a first such variation the social network may upon receiving a social data item evaluate the social data item to identify the topics associated therewith and may store an association of the identified topics with the social data item e.g. in an index. In a second such variation the social data items may be evaluated in just in time manner e.g. after receiving a search query and identifying the topics associated with the search query an embodiment may evaluate social data items in order to select those that are associated with these topics . While the first variation may yield higher performance such as lower response times and higher scalability the second variation may be more efficient e.g. the pre evaluation of social data items may consume a significant amount of computing resources such as processing cycles and storage space but the social network may infrequently receive search queries involving the evaluation of social data items .

As a third example of this fourth aspect additional limitations may be placed on the search query to select only particular types of social data items . In a first such variation the search query may specify a different set of users of the social network whose social data items may be evaluated for selection e.g. the user may specify that any social data item to which the user has access may be selected or only social data items generated by associated users who have an association with the user or only social data items generated by a particular subset of users such as the users of the social network who belong to a particular social group that includes the user . 

In a second variation of this third example of this fourth aspect the user may express a user interest in one or more topics and the selection of social data items within the social network of the user may be limited to those that also relate to at least one topic in which the user has expressed a user interest. The information about user interests may be stored e.g. in the social profile of the user and may be retrieved and utilized in the evaluation of the search query during the selection of social data items . For example if the user expresses a user interest in the topic of automobiles and also generates a search query including the keyword mustang the social data items so selected may be limited to those associated with the topic of the automobile associated with this keyword and may exclude social data items associated with other topics associated with this keyword such as animals sports teams and aircraft.

In a third variation of this third example of this fourth aspect social data items within the social network of the user may comprise many social data item types such as textual messages images documents video or audio recordings references such as URIs to particular resources or files. The search query may include a limitation that social data items are to be selected only of one or more social data item types and the selection of social data items within the social network of the user may be limited to social data items of these specified social data item types. For example the user may only be interested in images and the presentation may include only social data items comprising images selected from the social network and possibly only search results comprising images selected from among the data items indexed by the search engine . 

In a fourth variation of this third example of this fourth aspect various topics associated with the social data items within the social network of the user e.g. mentioned in textual comments depicted in images and or referenced by references may exhibit a degree of user interest by various users of the social network. Moreover the user interest in a particular topic may change over time and these changes may reflect an interest trend in the topic where a positive interest trend indicates that a greater number of users of the social network are expressing stronger user interest than expressed at a previous time and where a negative interest trend indicates that fewer users of the social network are expressing user interest and perhaps weaker user interest than at a previous time. According to this third variation social data items may be selected for inclusion in the presentation based on the detected user interest and interest trend in the social data items . For example an embodiment may select only social data items associated with one or more topics associated with the search query and that also demonstrate a sufficiently high user interest e.g. exceeding a user interest threshold or that also demonstrate a positive interest trend e.g. demonstrating a stronger and or broader degree of user interest in the topic than at a previous time. The user interest in various topics may be identified in many ways e.g. according to a reference frequency of references to the topic by users within the social network e.g. a high number of recent references to the topic in comments posted by the users according to a user interaction frequency of user interactions of users of the social network with social data items associated with the topic e.g. a high number of comments replying to social data items relating to the topic according to a search query frequency of search queries generated by the users of the social network associated with the topic e.g. a high number of search queries submitted that are associated with the topic and for topics comprising products the contents of user reviews of the product posted by users of the social network e.g. a high number of users who attribute positive user ratings in user reviews of the product. 

A fifth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of presenting the search results and the selected social data items to the user . As a first example the presentation when displayed on a display component of a device operated by the user e.g. when a presentation presented in a hypertext markup language HTML format is rendered in a web browser may feature the search results in a first region of the display and the social data items in a second region of the display that does not overlap the first region e.g. above below or to one side of the first region. 

As a second example of this fifth aspect the search results and the social data items may be presented together in the same region of the display e.g. by integrating the social data items with the search results . This integration may be performed in many ways e.g. by simply alternating the presentation of a search result and a social data item in a one dimensional presentation of the search result set e.g. a vertical column showing search results and social data items in alternating rows. As another integration technique where the search results are sorted according to a sort order such as alphabetical or chronological the social data items may be integrated with the search results according to the same sort order e.g. alphabetically or chronologically sorting the social data items into the search results . In a particular variation of this integration technique many search engines while selecting search results compute a relevance score indicating a relevance of the search result to the search query and position respective search results within the search result set at a position associated with the relevance scores thereof e.g. sorted in order of descending relevance scores. It may be possible to compute relevance scores for respective social data items e.g. based on the degree of association of the set of topics with the social data item and the corresponding set of topics associated with the search query and to integrate the social data items with the search results by inserting the social data items into the search results at a position associated with the relevance score of the social data item as compared with the relevance scores of the search results e.g. sorting the social data results into the search results according to relevance scores. As yet another integration technique where social data items are selected that have a positive interest trend such as illustrated in the exemplary scenario of the social data items may be inserted into the search results at a position associated with a positive interest trend magnitude of the social data item e.g. social data items having a very large positive interest trend magnitude such as breaking news items may be inserted at or near the top of the search results while social data items having a smaller but still positive interest trend magnitude may be inserted at a lower position in the search results . 

As a third example of this fifth aspect if the social data items are presented among or near the search results it may be difficult for the user to distinguish the personalized social data items from the search results in the search result set . Therefore an embodiment of these techniques may be configured to emphasize one or more social data items as compared with the search results of the search result set . For example the social data items may be presented in bold or larger font or may be highlighted in a different color. Moreover social data items may be presented with varying degrees of emphasis e.g. with an emphasis magnitude that is proportional to a factor relating to the user interest of the user in the social data item such as a high relevance score indicative of a strong correlation of the social data item with the search query . As another example the emphasis magnitude of social data items may vary proportionally with the nearness of the social data item to the user within the social network e.g. proportional to a degree of personalization of the social data item to the user such that personal data items that are specifically directed toward the user are presented with stronger emphasis in the presentation .

As a fourth example of this fifth aspect the presentation may initially feature only the search results generated by the search engine in response to the search query but may subsequently supplement the search results with the social data items . In a first such variation the user may be presented the search results but the presentation may include an offer to present personalized search results and upon receiving from the user an acceptance of the offer e.g. a notification that the user clicked a button associated with the offer in the presentation may present the social data items to the user within the presentation . This variation may promote the privacy of the user e.g. by conducting a detailed evaluation of the social network and interests of the user only with the consent of the user and or may improve the efficiency of the embodiment e.g. by only conducting the potentially resource intensive evaluation of the social network upon the request of an interested user . In a second such variation the evaluation of the social network and the selection of the social data items may take a considerable amount of time and it may be undesirable to withhold the presentation from the user during such evaluation and selection. Therefore it may be desirable initially to present the search result set to the user which may be performed rapidly and to upon completing the selection of social data items insert the selected social data items into the search result set e.g. using an asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX based injection of new data into a previously rendered web page. This insertion may be achieved e.g. by inserting the social data items into pre allocated placeholder regions of the search result set or by repositioning search results to accommodate the newly inserted social data items .

As a fifth example of this fifth aspect for topics comprising products an embodiment of these techniques may be configured to provide purchasing advice based on the price of the product through one or more product vendors. For example while presenting search results and social data items relating to a product an embodiment may identify a current price of the product offered by at least one product vendor and may evaluate the current price of the product to generate a product purchase recommendation for the product e.g. a comparison of the current price of the product to the current prices of competing products may lead to a product recommendation to purchase the product instead of the competing products based on prices and features. The product purchase recommendation for the product may then be included in the presentation . One such embodiment may have access to a product price database identifying at least one previous price of the product through at least one product vendor at a previous time and may compare the current price of the product with the at least one previous price of the product. This comparison may reveal e.g. price trends such as seasonal sales inventory liquidation or promotional prices and the embodiment may include in the presentation a product purchase recommendation based on this information. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of presenting the search results and the social data items associated with the search query of the user while implementing the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

