---

title: Method and system for image registration and change detection
abstract: A system and method for detecting changes by comparing images which cover the same physical area but are collected at different times, the system comprising: at least one input for inputting an image of a target area; the image of the target area having signatures representing outstanding features; at least one processor operating to divide the image of a target area into a plurality of target subimages; at least one memory comprising reference data comprising reference subimages taken at or near the target area at various times, the at least one processor operating to determine a sparse image representation from the reference data; the sparse image representation of the target data being a linear combination of reference data from corresponding reference subimages stored in the at least one memory; the at least one processor operating to compare the target image to the sparse image representation and to match signatures from the target image to the sparse image representation to register the images and perform change detection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620093&OS=08620093&RS=08620093
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08620093
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101019
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to image processing and more particularly to change detection techniques.

Change detection is a popular and important image processing process with numerous practical applications such as medical imaging environment agriculture and other remote sensing tasks. There are however some significant challenges confronting most change detection systems. The first challenge is image registration. For example two images a first image may be referred to as a reference image and a second image may be referred to as a test image in a change detection system or algorithm are generated at different times. The reference image and the test image however are usually not aligned with each other since the imaging platform is generally not retained in precisely the same exact geometry from one run to another. Performance of change detection often depends on how well image registration can be achieved. Misalignment between the reference image and the test image results in a translation and even slight rotation between the reference image and the test image. Although many change detection systems have been developed the image registration process is typically performed separately e.g. performed manually . Unfortunately the performance of a change detection system often depends on how well image registration can be achieved. If alignment was not well performed prior to the application of the change detection algorithm the resulting change detection performance will be significantly degraded. In addition the degree of misalignment between the two images usually locally varies throughout large areas.

The second challenge confronting change detection systems relates to the suppression of image signatures from common objects which appear in both the test and reference image scenes. For example in an ideal situation after the two images have been carefully registered the image signatures of objects present in both the test and reference image would be almost identical. Consequently the difference in image signatures between the test and reference image should be very small. In other words the image signatures from common objects that appear in both the test and reference image would be suppressed by the change detection system. In current change detection systems however image signatures of the same object are somewhat different in the two images due to many reasons e.g. calibration problem slight change in aspect angle noise etc. Differences in image signatures of a common object can lead to false positives since they falsely indicate large difference signatures in the resulting change detection image. These signature differences would be falsely declared as targets of interest i.e. generate false alarms . Current state of the art change detection algorithms often have difficulty in suppressing these differences since they simply detect any anomalies between the signatures of the objects which are common to the test and reference images.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a sparsity driven image registration and change detection technique for imagery such as for example synthetic aperture radar SAR . The image registration and change detection technique may be embodied in an algorithm that performs two main tasks i locally registers the test and reference images and ii performs the change detection between the two. In this preferred embodiment the transformation of the signatures from the reference image to match those of the test image at the local image patch level is sparsity driven. A dictionary is constructed from the reference data that is used to find the sparsest representation that best approximates the new incoming test data. The accuracy level of the approximation determines the detected changes between the reference and test image.

A preferred embodiment system for performing image change detection comprises an image input for capturing a test image of an area of interest and a storage or memory for storing a reference image at least one processor that calculates a sparsity driven transformation of reference signatures from the reference image to match test signatures of the test image the input being operatively connected to the at least one processor wherein the input accepts the test image and the at least one processor accepts the reference image from memory and an output port operatively connected to the at least one processor wherein the output port produces a change detection image.

In such a system a preferred embodiment may comprise a transmitter that transmits electromagnetic waves a receiver that receives the electromagnetic waves and an image processor coupled to the receiver that accepts input data from the receiver. Moreover the receiver may receive the electromagnetic waves after the electromagnetic waves have been reflected from a target and the at least one processor may comprise an image processor or a synthetic aperture radar image processor. In addition the memory or storage unit may comprise a reference image database comprising a plurality of reference images.

The processing steps may begin with a global operation that aligns the most recently collected test image to the set of reference ones. As a global pre processing operation the beginning step may maximize the correlation between the reference image and the spatially translated shifted test image within a reasonable range and or minimize the sum absolute difference SAD between the spatially translated shifted test image and the reference image within a reasonable range. The global pre processing ensures that the test and the reference image roughly capture the same scene or physical area. In addition the global pre processing limits the size of the search area in the following local registration and change detection step hence it improves the accuracy as well as the complexity of the local optimization.

In addition in such a system the processor s performing the change detection may extract a test image block of pixels from the test image. As used herein the terminology processor or at least one processor or processor s includes a computer a microprocessor a controller a mainframe a multiprocessor or the like or a plurality of computers microprocessors controller mainframe multiprocessors or the like. Moreover the processor s performing the change detection may establish a search area in the reference image which may comprise many reference image blocks each of which is a candidate to be compared to the targeted image block in the test image. Furthermore the at least one processor may stack all shifted reference image blocks within the desired search area into a local dictionary and each shifted reference image block may correspond to an atom of the dictionary. As used herein the terminology dictionary refers to the storage of reference image patches X in vectorized format x that fit within the search area S.

Additionally the processor s performing the change detection may generate a system of linear equations representing the test image block as a linear combination of shifted reference image blocks atoms in the dictionary and the at least one processor may solve the system of linear equations for the sparsest solution the one with the fewest number of active atoms contributing to the linear model representation . In addition the processor s performing the change detection may construct a new test image block from the shifted reference image blocks. Moreover the processor s performing the change detection may compute a change detection image block by comparing the new test image block with the original test image block and or may construct a change detection image from change detection image blocks via the error residue of the approximation.

Another embodiment herein provides an apparatus for joint image registration and change detection the apparatus comprising a first input port that accepts a first image of an area of interest wherein the first image comprises first image blocks a second input port that accepts a second image of the area of interest wherein the second image comprises second image blocks a global image registration unit via simple correlation a joint image registration unit that registers image blocks that appear in the first image and the second globally registered image and a change detection processor that builds a change detection image by suppressing signatures of common image blocks appearing in the first image and the second image.

In such an apparatus the joint image registration unit may locally register to a memory coupled to the joint image registration unit a test image block from the first image and reference image blocks from the second image. The joint image registration unit may build a local reference dictionary and wherein the local reference dictionary comprises shifted reference image blocks. In addition each shifted reference image block may comprise the reference image block shifted in a predetermined amount along at least one of the reference image down range dimension and or the reference image cross range dimension. Additionally the change detection processor may identify changes between the first image and the second image by building a system of linear equation computations and solving for a sparse solution to the system of linear equation computations.

The invention includes a preferred method executed by a computing device of detecting changes between a test image and a reference image the method comprising providing the test image and the reference image globally registering the test image with the reference image via maximizing correlation extracting a test image block from the test image establishing a corresponding search area in the reference image extracting shifted reference image blocks from the search area of the reference image to form a local reference dictionary generating a system of linear equation computations solving for a sparse solution for the system of linear equation computations building a new test image block from the shifted reference image blocks computing a change detection image block by comparing the new test image block with the original test image block constructing a change detection image from a plurality of change detection image blocks and detecting changes between the test image and the reference image from the change detection image.

In such a method computing the change detection block may comprise computing an absolute difference between the test image block and the reconstructed test image block. Moreover computing the absolute difference between the test image block and the new test image block may comprise applying a first scaling factor to the test image block where the first scaling factor comprises a measure of a degree of sparsity of a solution of the system of linear equation computations. In addition computing the absolute difference between the test image block and the new test image block may comprise applying a second scaling factor to the new test image block where the second scaling factor comprises a variance of an isearch area block among a plurality of search area blocks in the reference image.

Furthermore in such a method generating the system of linear equation computations may comprise building a test image block column vector and building a plurality reference image block column vectors. Moreover generating the system of linear equation computations may comprise solving for an unknown column vector and where the unknown column vector represents the sparsest scaling factors associated with the individual shifted reference image blocks in the local reference dictionary. In addition solving for the sparsest solution for the system of linear equation computations may comprise finding a solution vector and wherein the number of nonzero components of the solution vector must not exceed a predetermined restriction value. Moreover solving for the sparsest solution for the system of linear equation computations may comprise finding a solution vector wherein the sum of the absolute values of the components of the solution vector must be minimal.

Another embodiment herein provides a method executed by a computing device of performing change detection of images the method comprising providing a test image and a reference image setting change detection parameters by setting a test image patch size to M N where M is a first numeric value along a down range dimension and N is a second numeric value along a cross range axis setting a targeted sparsity level to a numeric value typically between 0.02 MN and 0.05 MN setting a search window size to M M N N where M is a first added numeric value that is added to the first numeric value and N is a second added numeric value that is added to the second numeric value and setting such that M 2 N 2 where is an overlap between test image patches partitioning the test image into overlapping test image patches processing the overlapping test image patches by constructing a local dictionary from the reference image computing a sparse prediction patch and computing residual prediction errors and incrementing i and j of and to cover an entire area of the test image where i is an integer value along a down range dimension of the test image and j is an integer value along a cross range dimension of the test image and outputting a global prediction a coefficient map and a scaled change detection image to detect a change between the test image and the reference image.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide the option of a joint image registration and change detection system and method. For example embodiments described herein locally register reference and test images and perform change detection analysis between the two images. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

In the following mathematical equations bold face characters denote vectors while bold faced uppercase characters denote matrices.

A preferred embodiment of the invention comprises a sparsity driven transformation of the signatures from the reference image to match to those of the test image. Each local patch in the reference image may be transformed for comparison with the local corresponding region in the test images. The process may be performed simultaneously to perform image registration and perform suppression of common signatures that are presented in both images test and reference . Conceptually a subspace is constructed from the reference data and that subspace is used to approximately represent the new incoming test data. A redundant dictionary may be constructed from the reference data and the dictionary is used vis vis the new incoming test data as depicted in . The accuracy level of this representation determines the detected changes between the reference and the test image. The concept of sparsity in this preferred embodiment approach contains a principal component analysis PCA flavor in that only the most influential signatures are allowed to contribute to the linear approximation. However unlike classic PCA approaches the process is deterministic the algorithm operates directly on the collected data without the necessity of costly computation of eigenvectors and or eigenvalues. The methodology avoids effort consumed in training the dictionary. The subspace approach is locally adaptive at the image patch level a search is performed for the optimal subspace that can be constructed from the reference data via a sparsity guidance optimization process. This search feature may accomplish both critical tasks of registration and change detection simultaneously. The algorithm may simultaneously addresses both problems of registration and suppression of common objects via a series of local sparse optimization processes.

In addition to the good suppression of the common signatures the image registration between the two images is automatically provided by the signature transformation process. The technique can achieve a very robust and almost perfect registration between the two images even for severe situations in which the degree of misalignment is spatially varied throughout the large image scene since an adaptive search for the best match is performed between the test and the reference image at the local image patch level.

The basic idea is that the algorithm tries to match the signatures from the reference image to the corresponding signatures from the test image. As used herein the terminology signature is used to denote a distinctive mark such as the representation of a target an outstanding feature or a point of interest in image produced by radar for example. The signatures from the test image are modeled as a linear combination of the shifted versions of the corresponding signatures in the reference image. The best representations via these linear combinations are called the predicted signatures. However a further restriction may be imposed on the optimization process to solve only for the sparse solution in which the prediction of the test image from the reference image would not be exact and also highly dependent on the local reference data. Consider for example two hypothetical situations. In the first hypothetical situation there is no change in the image scene. The signatures from the two images can still be different due to changes in radar calibration slight variation in geometry etc. but the difference is not significant. In this case the algorithm can easily transform the signatures from the reference image to match to the corresponding signatures from the test image and the resulting prediction should be accurate. With an accurate match the result is the good suppression of the signatures from common objects in both images. In the second hypothetical situation if a target is only presented in one image and not in the other the differences between the input signature and the predicted one from the reference would be much more significant. The transformation of the signatures from the reference image to match to the corresponding signatures from the test image would be less successful in this case in fact ideally one would expect the process to fail completely because of the sparsity level restriction that is imposed. This results in the detection of the change between the two images.

Another innovative concept in a preferred embodiment technique is that change detection can be performed on multiple reference images while generally state of the art change detection techniques only detect the differences between just two images. This technique can employ more than one reference images to generate the necessary dictionary for the transformation process. The algorithm s performance would be even better since a richer dictionary would capture more variations of the signatures from the same object. For example in the context of a SAR application the system transmits radar signals to illuminate an area of interest. The system captures the return radar data and form a SAR image of the area to generate a test image. At this point the system should already have a database that includes another SAR image or many SAR images that was previously collected and generated from this same area. This image is used as a reference image for the change detection process. The two images are sent to the change detection subsystem for processing. The processing steps performed by the change detection system are described by the flowchart in .

In the following analysis bold faced lowercase characters to denote vectors while bold faced uppercase characters to denote matrices. The lowercase subscripts i and j used herein to index the image pixel as in xor image patch location X. The Lp norm of the vector is defined as square root over whereas the L norm of is simply its number of significant non zero elements.

A COMPRESSED SENSING CS FRAMEWORK is defined as follows. A length N signal x is said to be K sparse or K compressible if x can be well approximated using K

In mathematics the Lspaces are function spaces defined using natural generalizations of p norms for finite dimensional vector spaces. They are sometimes called Lebesgue spaces. The L norm of the vector is defined as square root over whereas the L norm of is the number of significant non zero elements. Under several mild conditions well known in the literature the L norm minimization problem above can be efficiently solved by recasting it as a convex linear programming problem circumflex over arg min s.t. y x A Equation 3A . In any case the reconstructed information can be generally regarded as the sparsest or most compressible solution from many candidate solutions of the under determined Equation 1A.

Sparse Representation via Reference Data. Shown in are two SAR images X and Y which cover the same physical area but are collected at two different times. It would be desirable to register the two images X and Y and then identify any changes between them. The test image Y is first divided into many overlapping image patches Y each represented as an M N matrix whose upper left element is image pixel y 

From 1 define yas an MN 1 column vector constructed from stacking N columns of Yon top of each other. Next define the corresponding M 2 M N 2 N search area Sin the reference image X as follows

From the above search area Sij we construct the dictionary Dij which consists of 2 M 1 2 N 1 atoms each atom of exactly the same dimension as the test vector yij 1 . . . xi M 1 3 where each MN 1 atom xis constructed by vectorizing the image patch Xfrom the reference data X. In other words the dictionary Dij contains the reference image patches X in vectorized format x that fit within the search area Sas defined in 2 . The input signal is called K sparse K

For every given test image patch x the following inverse problem is solved for the sparsest coefficient vector 

Continuing the following problem is solved circumflex over arg min such that 5 and the sparsest approximation possible of the test image patch yij is found as a linear combination of the corresponding local reference image patches xij stored in the dictionary Dij circumflex over . 6 There are numerous techniques for solving 5 for the sparsest solution available in the compressed sensing community linear programming orthogonal matching pursuit gradient projection subspace pursuit etc. For example in a preferred embodiment subspace pursuit is employed as described further in W. Dai and O. Milenkovic Subspace pursuit for compressive sensing Closing the gap between performance and complexity Preprint 2008 due to its low complexity and its robust performance. The reference W. Dai and O. Milenkovic Subspace pursuit for compressive sensing Closing the gap between performance and complexity 2008 download http dsp.rice.edu files cs SubspacePursuit.pdf is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully reprinted herein. Change Detection via Residual Error and L1 norm

where sSis the variance of the reference search area S. The accuracy of the sparse representation above and the degree of sparsity roughly measured as the L1 norm of the optimal coefficient vector circumflex over are useful information used to determine if changes have taken place within the image area near image location ij or not. Consider the first hypothesis where there is no change in the image scene. In the ideal noiseless case if the signatures from the test image and the reference image are identical the solution circumflex over vector would include only one nonzero element of unity magnitude. In reality there are always subtle changes between the signatures from the two images. Thus the optimal solution circumflex over would include a few nonzero small magnitude elements to compensate for the differences and its L1 norm is insignificant. On the other hand when there are true changes within the local image scene the test image patch cannot be well represented by the linear combination of reference atoms in the dictionary since we impose the restriction that sparsity K is very low compared to the dimension of the test image patch . This yields a noisy prediction and the resulting differences would indicate the changes. Here the resulting L1 norm of the best solution circumflex over would be significantly higher indicating a detected change.

The sparsity setting K controls the trade off between detection versus false alarm rate. A higher sparsity setting will generally always lead to lower residual error hence improving clutter suppression but unfortunately also weakening target detection. The size of the search area controls the robustness of the algorithm with respect to registration. With this set up SIRE CD can effectively handle any translational registration mismatch within the range M N . However enlarging the search area size can potentially increase the misdetection rate. The increment settings i and j provide the trade off between refinement and complexity. They can range from unity moving image patch one pixel at a time most accurate detection to M N non overlapped patches lowest computational requirement .

Also shown in is a database comprising reference images e.g. reference image shown in which may include images previously captured by image acquisition unit and saved by change detection unit and onto database . For example reference image shown in may include a SAR image or many SAR images previously collected and saved where reference image is an image of a similar area of interest captured by image acquisition unit when creating test image but not necessarily the same image as test image . Reference image shown in may be subsequently stored in database and later retrieved from database to be used as a second input to change detection processor e.g. through input port . As shown change detection processor may process accepted input from input port e.g. test image and input port e.g. reference image to produce an output e.g. change detection image through output port . Input ports and output port may include but are not limited to physical ports memory addresses to a memory not shown accessible to change detection processor and virtual ports that change detection processor recognizes as input ports and output port . Input port may be similarly configured. Change detection processor may also include a joint image registration unit to register images accepted from the input ports e.g. input port and input port and store the registrations locally within the change detection processor. For example joint image registration unit may locally store registrations within a memory not shown directly coupled to change detection processor .

In step test image is divided into many overlapping test image blocks and collectively test image block or patch shown in . Each overlapping test image block is processed and integrated with neighboring test image blocks to reduce the edge artifact generated from reconstruction mismatches between adjacent test image blocks. For example in test image block is processed and integrated with neighboring test image blocks and . The size of test image block is also chosen in step of to capture a physical size of an object or target of interest e.g. in one embodiment the physical size may represent a scaled 1 1 meter area in the area of interest and the object of interest may be a weapon system . In addition each test image block e.g. test image block shown in may have a down range dimension of npixels and a cross range dimension of mpixels.

As shown in step may be a global operation that aligns the just collected test image to the set of reference ones. As a pre processing operation the first processing step either maximizes the correlation between the test image and all spatially translated shifted reference images within a reasonable range or minimizes the sum absolute difference SAD between the test image and all spatially translated shifted reference images within a reasonable range. Global pre processing step may ensure that the test and the reference image roughly capture the same scene or physical area. In addition global pre processing step may limit the size of the search area in the following local registration and change detection step and thereby improve the accuracy as well as the complexity of the local optimization.

In step establishes a corresponding search area shown in in reference image . Search area is optionally the same shape as test image block e.g. square shaped and optionally scaled to a larger size e.g. twice as large as test image block to cover any misalignment between the two images. The location of search area on reference image approximately corresponds to the position of test image block on test image and may be centered in reference image at the same position as test image block is positioned in test image . For example search area may have a down range dimension of npixels and a cross range dimension of mpixels. Inside search area reference image block shown in may be shifted along a down range dimension and or a cross range dimension as described in further detail below.

Stated another way in step test image may be divided into many overlapping test image patches where each test image patch is represented as an M N matrix whose upper left element is image pixel y. In addition a column vector Ymay be defined as an MN 1 column vector constructed from stacking N columns of M rows of pixels on top of each other. Next in step search area is defined as a corresponding M m N N where M is the scaling factor in the M dimension and N is the scaling factor in the N dimension of search area compared to test image block .

Step in the method shown in generates a local reference dictionary that may include all possible translated reference image blocks which are of the same size as test image block within the search area in reference image . Possible translations include but are not limited to translating reference image block along a down range translation direction and or along a translation cross range direction . While creating local reference dictionary each reference image block shown in may be referred to as an atom of the local reference dictionary .

Stated another way step constructs a dictionary Dwhich includes 2 M 1 2 N 1 atoms D xx. . . x. . . x where each MN 1 atom is constructed by vectorizing reference image block . In other words the dictionary Dmay contain all or substantially all reference image blocks in vectorized format that fit within search area . An input parameter K where K

In step constructs a system of linear equation computations described below and solves the system of linear equation computations for a sparse solution described below . The system of linear equation computations built in step includes a column vector of test image blocks and a column vector of reference image blocks . Both the column vector of test image blocks and reference image blocks are column vectors of size N where N n m. In addition an unknown vector is defined as a column vector of size M where M is the number of atoms in local reference dictionary that is formed by shifted versions of reference block images within search area . From the system of linear equation computations built by step test image block is modeled as a linear combination of a minimum number of shifted versions e.g. atoms in local reference dictionary of reference image blocks .

As described in further detail below the system of linear equation computations built in step reflects the difference between test image and reference image . For example the system of linear equations built in step may reflect no change between the test image and reference image . In the ideal noiseless scenario when the signatures from the test image and the reference image are identical a solution vector to the system of linear equation computations built in step includes only one nonzero element of magnitude equal to one. In practice however there is small deviation between test image and reference image e.g. subtle changes caused by different image capture geometries between test image and reference image . Thus the solution vector may include more than one nonzero element to compensate for the differences. Even when there is a small difference between test image and reference image however the number of nonzero elements in the solution vector should not be large e.g. not statistically significant when compared to the total number of elements in the solution vector . Consequently the solution vector to the system of linear equation computations built from step in can be assumed to be a sparse approximated solution of the linear system. In addition the solution vector may be solved with a restriction indicating the number of nonzero components degree of sparsity should not exceed a value K where K

In another example there may be significant changes e.g. statistically significant between test image and reference image such that test image block cannot be well represented by a linear combination of shifted versions of reference image blocks due to the imposed restriction on the number of nonzero coefficients e.g. the value K described above to be small compared to the dimension of test image block . For example when the number of nonzero coefficients in the solution vector exceeds 0.02 0.05N where N is the number of elements in the solution vector may constitute a significant change between test image and reference image . As a consequence a less successful transformation of reference image blocks to match to test image block has occurred and the resulting differences would indicate significant changes between test image and reference image .

In step the method of transforms shifted versions of reference image blocks to match to corresponding test image block . A reconstructed image block not shown is generated by a matrix vector multiplication local reference dictionary and the solution vector found in step . Reconstructed image block not shown may therefore represent a transformation of reference image blocks to match to test image block .

In step the method of computes a change detection image block . Change detection image block is generated by computing an absolute difference between test image block and reconstructed image block not shown . A first scaling factor in computing change detection image block may be applied as . For example may be defined as 

Step in determines whether all test image blocks have been processed and when all test image blocks have been processed step generates a change detection image that is an integrated image to illustrate the changes between test image and reference image . Otherwise step returns to step to repeat the processing of another test image block in test image .

In general the change detection processor of operates on data stream x. Data stream x comprises length N and is said to be K sparse or K compressible if x can be well approximated using K

Moreover as those skilled in the art would understand from the above sparsity setting K as defined in step of controls the trade off between detection versus false alarm rate. A higher sparsity setting may lead to lower residual error hence improving clutter suppression but may also weaken target detection. In addition the size of the search area controls as defined in step of effects the robustness of the method shown in with respect to registration. As shown above the embodiments herein can effectively handle any translational registration mismatch within the range M N . Those skilled in the art however would understand that enlarging the size of the search area may increase the misdetection rate. In addition as described above the global registration pre processing step may further optimize the size of the search area by restricting the local search to a local mismatch.

Incrementing the overlap settings e.g. and j where corresponds to the amount of overlap in the cross range dimension and corresponds to the amount of overlap in down range dimension provide the trade off between refinement and complexity. They can range from unity moving image patch one pixel at a time most accurate detection to M N non overlapped patches lowest computational requirement .

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein may comprise hardware and software embodiments. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

A more general representation of the hardware environment for practicing the embodiments herein is depicted in . This schematic drawing illustrates hardware configuration of an information handling computer system in accordance with the embodiments herein. Hardware configuration comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via system bus to various devices such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and an input output I O adapter . The I O adapter can connect to peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives or other program storage devices that are readable by the system. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments herein. The system further includes a user interface adapter that connects a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen device not shown to the bus to gather user input. Additionally a communication adapter connects the bus to a data processing network and a display adapter connects the bus to a display device that may be embodied as an output device such as a monitor printer or transmitter for example.

Change detection results using SAR simulation data. shows a reference SAR image formed using SAR simulation data whereas depicts a test SAR image that is collected and generated at a different time with three new targets introduced in the scene. The image signatures of the eight clutter objects presented in both scenes are different between the test image and the reference image. The differences in the signatures shapes and amplitudes represent the radar calibration mismatch between two different runs. In addition to signature mismatches there is also a misalignment between the two images due to variations in geometry radar aperture between the two runs. illustrates the standard difference change detection result after a manual global image registration process . The suppression of signatures for these common objects completely fails due to the local image registration problem and the changes in signatures between runs. shows the reconstruction image using the SIRE CD . Here signatures of the seven common clutter objects are well matched to those of the test image. On the other hand the signatures of the three targets are poorly reconstructed. depicts the difference between the test image and the reconstructed image. Pixels at three target locations show up clearly in the image while the signatures of the other four common objects are well suppressed. shows the false color plot of the L1 norm coefficients which is a rough measure of the degree of sparsity of the optimal solution indicating the difficulty level that the sparse optimization process encounters while trying to represent the test image via the reference. From the values of the L1 norm coefficients are high at the three target locations and remain very low at the remaining clutter areas implying that this L1 norm map contains valuable information that can be used to weight the change detection image to enhance the change locations. illustrates the final change detection image using L1 weighting information. Note that the target locations are detected while clutters are completely eliminated.

Change detection results using ARL UWB SAR radar. depict the reference and test SAR images from the ARL UWB forward looking SAR radar. There are seven ground truth targets label with circles . Some have very small signature amplitudes and are located next to significant clutter objects presenting a very challenging situation. graphs the false color plot of the coefficient L1 norm. All seven targets are detected with two legitimate false alarms one of which is caused by the spurious signal from the radar hardware. plots the residual change detection image scaled by the L1 norm and the standard deviations of the local reference patches. Inspecting the sparsity driven optimization for two cases involving the sparsity constrained joint image registration and change detection SIRE CD technique of a preferred embodiment demonstrate a first hypothesis where there is an incoming target that is not present in the reference image. shows the sparse reconstruction of the target signature from the reference image data. The reconstruction signature poorly represents the target signature because of the low sparsity level imposed in the process. This difference in signature indicates the change in the image scene. The L1 norm false color map in indicates the presence of many large coefficients further confirming the detection of the target. A D illustrate a second hypothesis where there is no change in the scene between the reference and test image. show the signatures of the same clutter object from the reference and the test image respectively. The difference in the signatures of the same clutter object as confirmed visually is a major challenge for any change detection algorithm. depicts the sparse prediction of the test clutter from the reference clutter signature. The optimization process has successfully found a good match. The residual error is low while the L1 norm map in reveals that the coefficients used in the sparse representation are very small indicating that there is not much change between the two images.

A preferred embodiment described in the foregoing provides a locally adaptive sparsity driven joint registration and change detection approach for among other applications SAR imagery. At the image patch level an optimal subspace is sought that can be constructed from the reference data via a L0 or L1 norm sparsity guidance optimization process. The accuracy level of this representation determines the detected changes between the reference and the test image. The perfect alignment between the reference and test images is achieved by the built in registration the sparse optimization process automatically decides what the best local alignment for each signature is. Surprisingly the L1 norm information is very effective in detecting the changes between the two images. Combining this L1 norm information and the change detection result provides significant improved performance in change detection approach. Demonstrated in the foregoing is the SIRE CD performance using both simulated and real forward looking SAR data from ARL radar.

As described above the embodiments herein are improvements over the existing systems because the embodiments herein may as an option simultaneously perform image registration and change detection e.g. using change detection processor . In so doing the embodiments herein achieve very good and robust image registration since the changes in geometry are best captured by performing image registration locally i.e. using local reference dictionary . In addition the embodiments herein also achieve very good suppression of the signatures of common objects via the transformation process to match the signatures from the reference image to the corresponding signatures from the test image . Moreover the embodiments herein are not limited to just two images and can perform change detection using a database of multiple reference images. Furthermore the embodiments herein can employ more than one reference image e.g. multiple reference images retrieved from database to generate a local reference dictionary for the transformation process and in so doing capture more variations of signatures from the same object due to a richer local reference dictionary .

As used herein the terminology sparsity driven of sparsity driven is a relative term relating to the finding of a compressible solution which is intended to be treated broadly. For example a sparse matrix is a matrix with enough zeros that it pays to take advantage of them commonly interpreted from an economics view point in that if one can save time and memory by exploiting the zeros then a matrix is sparse. The terminology sparsity refers to the selection of a model within a hierarchy of model classes that yields a compact representation i.e. a model that depends on only a few of the observations selecting a small subset of features for classification or visualization. Selection of an optimal representation which is sufficiently sparse enables efficient computation by optimization techniques and alleviates the extreme difficulty encountered without sufficient sparsity.

As used herein the terminology target area means area of interest which may be for example a scene an animal or human body or portion thereof face as in face recognition object ground region field landscape aerial environment or a combination thereof.

As used herein the terminology subimage or sub image means a portion of an image also referred to herein as a patch or the like.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

