---

title: Method for authenticating device capabilities to a verified third party
abstract: A system, devices and methods for verifying an administrator computing device to a guest computing device, verifying the guest device to the administrator device and outputting a list of the guest device capabilities for the administrator device such that the guest device is capable of verifying the administrator device, for example to ensure it does not divulge its capabilities to imposters, and the administrator device is capable of identifying whether the list of device capabilities is authentic. Verification can be achieved through cryptographic hashes of private certificates, digital signatures or expected output from verified modules. The list of device capabilities may be restricted based on the authorization granted to the administrator computer and may be altered or watermarked for verification. A failure to verify the administrator device may restrict execution of instructions on the guest device to prevent unauthorized access to the guest device's capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08397274&OS=08397274&RS=08397274
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08397274
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100713
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a system and method to identify the capabilities of a mobile electronic device.

As mobile electronic devices become more prolific and achieve greater and more diverse capabilities it has become increasingly difficult to identify the capabilities of any given mobile electronic device. One consequence of this is that it is has become more difficult to identify whether a particular mobile electronic device may enter a government building a military compound or any other restricted access area.

For non limiting example a security administrator at the entrance to a court room may be tasked with preventing all devices capable of recording images audio or video from entering the court room. Powering on the device visual inspection and asking the person carrying the device about the device are options the security administrator can employ. If the security administrator is unable to identify the device s capabilities the security administrator may restrict the device from entering the court room. As the proliferation diversity and capabilities of mobile electronic devices increase it becomes more difficult to identify the capabilities of devices and to do so quickly.

In one aspect a guest computing device comprises an input mechanism an output mechanism a memory having configuration data verification data and non transitory computer readable instructions stored thereon and a processor connected to the memory for executing the instructions. The instructions are for obtaining a security code associated with an administrator computing device from the input mechanism generating a list of device capabilities from the configuration data generating a verification code in accordance with the security code and the verification data and outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism. In one embodiment of this aspect the list of device capabilities comprises a list of hardware capabilities of the guest computing device. In another aspect the verification code comprises a cryptographic hash of the security code and the security code comprises a cryptographic hash of a certification data. In another embodiment at least one of the security code and the verification code is contained in an image. In a further embodiment the instructions for outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism comprise instructions for using the verification code to alter the outputting of the list of device capabilities to the output mechanism. In a yet further embodiment the instructions for using the verification code to adjust the output of the list of device capabilities to the output mechanism comprise instructions for generating a watermarked list of device capabilities including a watermark generated using the verification code and outputting the watermarked list of device capabilities. In a still further embodiment the memory comprises further instructions for verifying that the security code is associated with an administrator device authorized to obtain at least some of the capabilities from the configuration data.

In another aspect an administrator computing device comprises an input mechanism an output mechanism a memory having certification data and non transitory computer readable instructions stored thereon and a processor connected to the memory for executing the instructions. The instructions are for generating a security code in accordance with the certification data outputting the security code through the output mechanism obtaining a verification code associated with a guest computing device from the input mechanism and verifying the verification code in accordance with at least one of the certification data and the security code. In one example embodiment of this aspect the verification code comprises a cryptographic hash of the security code and the security code comprises a cryptographic hash of the certification data.

In another aspect a method for outputting a list of device capabilities to an administrator computing device is disclosed. The method comprises obtaining a security code associated with the administrator computing device through an input mechanism verifying that the security code is associated with the administrator device generating a list of device capabilities the list including capabilities from configuration data and outputting the list of device capabilities through an output mechanism. In one example embodiment of this aspect the method further comprises verifying that the administrator device is authorized to obtain at least some of the list device capabilities from the configuration data and outputting the list of device capabilities through the output mechanism comprises outputting a portion of the list of device capabilities that the administrator computing device is authorized to obtain. In another example embodiment the method further comprises generating a verification code in accordance with the security code and verification data and outputting the list of device capabilities through the output mechanism comprises outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism. In another example embodiment at least some of the verification data is associated with a verified module. In a further example embodiment outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism comprises using the verification code to alter the outputting of the list of device capabilities to the output mechanism. In yet another example embodiment using the verification code to alter the output of the list of device capabilities to the output mechanism further comprises generating a watermarked list of device capabilities including a watermark generated using the verification code and outputting the watermarked list of device capabilities. In a further example embodiment obtaining a security code through an input mechanism comprises capturing an image containing the security code through a camera. In a yet further example embodiment verifying that the security code is associated with the administrator device comprises verifying that the security code was generated in accordance with certification data associated with the administrator device.

In yet another aspect a method for verifying a verification code on an administrator computing device is disclosed. The method comprises generating a security code in accordance with certification data outputting the security code through an output mechanism obtaining a verification code associated with a guest computing device through an input mechanism and verifying the verification code is in accordance with at least one of verification data the security code and the certification data. In one example embodiment of this aspect generating the security code in accordance with the certification data further comprises obtaining a pass code and generating the security code in accordance with the certification data and the pass code. In another example embodiment at least some of the verification data is associated with a verified module associated with the guest computing device. In another example embodiment obtaining the verification code associated with the guest computing device from the input mechanism comprises capturing an image containing the verification code through a camera.

In a further aspect a system comprises an administrator computing device and a guest computing device. The administrator computing device includes an input mechanism an output mechanism a memory having certification data and non transitory computer readable instructions stored thereon and a processor connected to the memory for executing the instructions. The instructions on the administrator computing device are for generating a security code in accordance with the certification data outputting the security code through the output mechanism of the administrator computing device obtaining a verification code associated with the guest computing device from the input mechanism of the administrator computing device and verifying the verification code in accordance with at least one of the certification data and the security code. The guest computing device includes an input mechanism an output mechanism a memory having configuration data verification data and non transitory computer readable instructions stored thereon and a processor connected to the memory for executing the instructions. The instructions on the guest computing device are for obtaining the security code associated with the administrator computing device from the input mechanism of the guest computing device generating a list of device capabilities from the configuration data generating the verification code in accordance with the security code and the verification data and outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism of the guest computing device. In one example embodiment of this aspect the memory of the guest device comprises further instructions for verifying that the security code is associated with the administrator device verifying that the administrator device is authorized to obtain at least some of the capabilities from the configuration data and outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism of the guest computing device comprises outputting a portion of the list of device capabilities that the administrator device is authorized to obtain. In another example embodiment the verification code comprises a digital signature based in part on the security code and the security code comprises a digital signature based in part on the certification data. In another example embodiment the memory of the guest computing device comprises a password and the guest computing device comprises further instructions for restricting access and execution of the instructions of the guest computing device obtaining a password attempt comparing the password attempt to the password and in response to the password attempt matching the password permitting access and execution of the instructions of the guest computing device. In yet another example embodiment the memory of the guest computing device includes a copy of the certification data of the administrator computing device and the memory of the administrator computing device includes a copy of the verification data of the guest computing device. In still another example embodiment each of the two input mechanisms comprise at least one of a keyboard a camera and a touchscreen display and each of the two output mechanism comprise at least one of a display and a touchscreen display. In a further example embodiment at least one of the security code the verification code and the list of device capabilities is contained in an image. In a yet further example embodiment at least one of the administrator device and the guest device comprises a mobile electronic device.

A system devices and methods are provided for verifying an administrator computing device to a guest computing device verifying the guest computing device to the administrator computing device and outputting a list of the guest computing device s capabilities for the administrator computing device. By verifying information from the administrator computing device the guest computing device may trust the administrator not to misuse information about the guest computing device s capabilities. By verifying information from the guest computing device the administrator computing device may trust the list of guest computing device capabilities as authentic.

The list of device capabilities provides information about the capabilities and configuration of the guest computing device. In some embodiments the list of device capabilities comprises the hardware and software capabilities of the guest computing device such as the presence of a keyboard microphone camera touchscreen Wi Fi Bluetooth memory expansion slot memory card global positioning system GPS accelerometer or other hardware or the presence of particular software modules and capabilities such as games an Internet browser simple messaging service SMS e mail service audio recording image recording or other audiovisual service or other applications and whether or not any of the aforementioned device capabilities are enabled. The list of device capabilities may also comprise security configuration information of the guest computing device including security policy settings whether any hardware or software has been disabled such as by an IT policy and the versions of various internal applications such as the operating system or external certificates. In one example embodiment the list of device capabilities comprises information from an IT policy or a list of all IT policy settings on the guest computing device.

Reference is now made to which illustrate an exemplary system for authenticating a list of device capabilities. An administrator computing device and a guest computing device present information to verify each other. The guest computing device verifies the administrator computing device to reduce the risk that the guest computing device divulges information about its capabilities to an imposter or other party that could use such information against the guest computing device . The administrator computing device verifies the guest computing device to reduce the risk that a malicious guest computing device divulges false information about its capabilities for example in an effort to circumvent a security check for devices with impermissible capabilities.

In the example embodiment of the system illustrated in the administrator computing device generates and outputs a security code and the guest computing device obtains the security code and verifies it. In the specific non limiting example embodiment illustrated in the administrator computing device outputs the security code to a display while a camera on the guest computing device captures an image containing the security code and verifies the security code is associated with the administrator computing device . Verifying the security code permits the guest device to identify the administrator computing device or verify that the instructions being executed on the administrator computing device correspond to a module from a trusted entity.

A module comprises but is not limited to instructions for execution on a processor of a computing device to perform specific tasks. For non limiting example a module includes an application an application extension a program a package an executable a library a process a script machine code human readable source code or a compressed format of any of the preceding.

In the example embodiment of the system illustrated in the guest computing device generates a verification code and a list of device capabilities of the guest computing device and outputs the verification code and the list of device capabilities. The administrator computing device obtains the verification code and verifies it. In the specific non limiting example embodiment in the guest computing device outputs the verification code and the device capabilities to a display while a camera on the administrator computing device captures an image containing the verification code and verifies the verification code is associated with the guest computing device . Verifying the verification code permits the administrator device to identify the guest computing device or verify that the instructions being executed on the guest computing device correspond to a module from a trusted entity. Verifying the verification code also permits the administrator device to verify that the verification code is a response to the security code by identifying part of the security code that the administrator device output within the verification code.

In some embodiments if the security code cannot be verified the guest computing device would not generate or display a list of its capabilities to avoid the risk of divulging that information to an unauthorized party. Access to such information about the guest device s configuration could more easily permit a malicious third party to compromise the guest computing device .

If the verification code is verified the administrator computing device can trust that the list of device capabilities is authentic. If the verification code cannot be verified then the administrator computing device cannot trust the list of device capabilities output by the guest computing device as authentic. For example the list of device capabilities may be fraudulent such as where a malicious guest device is attempting to hide its capabilities to gain access to an area restricted to devices having particular capabilities.

In example embodiments such as those illustrated in where the guest computing device captures an image containing the security code or the administrator computing device captures an image containing the verification code the security code and the verification code can comprise for non limiting example a barcode a UPC A code a two dimensional barcode a matrix code a QR Code MicroQR code a MaxiCode a watermark or any other image or video into which a code can be inserted and extracted.

In the specific example system illustrated in the display and capture of the security code and the verification code occur when the administrator computing device and the guest computing device are physically proximate to one another. In this embodiment the security code verification code and device capabilities are not broadcast and consequently the opportunity for a third party to observe or record this information is reduced. Furthermore it would be difficult for another device to substitute information into the system. In contrast a broadcast signal such as wireless or Bluetooth could be covertly substituted from a third party device. In some example embodiments the verification code comprises a digital signature based in part on the security code and the security code comprises a digital signature based in part on the certification data. In some example embodiments the certification data the verification data or both include unique private certificates provided by a trusted entity. The trusted entity may also maintain publicly accessible processes or data to verify that information was generated by the device or module provided with a unique private certificate. In some example embodiments the instructions executed on the administrator computing device and the instructions executed on the guest computing device are compiled into the same module.

One skilled in the art will readily understand that the administrator computing device and the guest computing device of the present disclosure may be implemented in any conventional computing device. Embodiments of the administrator computing device and the guest computing device of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language. It is to be understood that alternate embodiments are feasible. Either computing device may comprise a mobile electronic device described below or any other computing device including but not limited to a mobile telephone a smartphone a mobile handheld device a personal digital assistant a portable gaming console a personal computer a desktop computer a laptop a notepad and the like.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a mobile electronic device which can form an embodiment of the administrator device or the guest computing device . The mobile electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile electronic device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile electronic device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile electronic device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem sometimes referred to as a radio layer for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The device may comprise a touchscreen display in some embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile electronic device is intended to operate.

The mobile electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are output to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software software applications comprising an email messaging application also referred to as an email client a personal address book a calendar application and a phone application for non limiting example.

The software applications also may include a range of applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display screen according to the application. Where the mobile device embodies an administrator computing device a guest computing device or both an application such as a verified application containing instructions respectively associated with the administrator computing device and the guest computing device may also be included in the software applications the software modules or in other memory locations on the mobile device or in any combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

In some embodiments the auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile electronic device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS Global Positioning System subsystem comprising a GPS receiver or transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a pointing or navigational input device such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile electronic device also includes a removable memory card or module typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile electronic device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile electronic device also stores other data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The mobile electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile electronic device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile electronic device .

The mobile electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the phone application and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The phone application can be split into multiple applications or sub modules for example one or more user phone modules and a call control module. The user phone modules provide a variety of telephony features through a user interface while the call control module provides access to common telephony functions desired by the user phone modules such that telephony requests from phone modules can be coordinated and so that the user phone modules do not need to each provide instructions understood by the wireless communications subsystem . The call control function typically makes telephony features available to user phone modules through an application programming interface API . It is to be recognized that all or part of the phone application features or functions could be provided through the operating system or otherwise distributed in the device while continuing to fall within the term phone application .

Referring now to the administrator computing device comprises an input mechanism an output mechanism a processor and a memory .

The input mechanism obtains information such as information displayed on or transmitted from the guest computing device or information entered by an administrator through the input mechanism . The input mechanism comprises at least one of a camera a keyboard a touchscreen display a wireless receiver a Bluetooth receiver a microphone and other devices for manual or automated input of information into the administrator computing device . The input mechanism is connected to the processor . In some embodiments the input mechanism is also connected to other components of the administrator computing device .

The output mechanism transmits information from the administrator computing device . The output mechanism comprises at least one of a display a touchscreen display a wireless transmitter a Bluetooth transmitter a speaker and other output devices for transmission or display of information on the administrator computing device . The output mechanism is connected to the processor . In some embodiments the output mechanism is also connected to and other components of the administrator computing device .

The memory stores data including instructions for execution on the processor and data to be accessed by those instructions such as certification data security code and verification code associated with the guest computing device . Non transitory computer readable instructions are stored in the memory for configuring the processor . Non limiting examples of the memory include flash memory protected memory and memory module of mobile electronic device .

The processor executes instructions generates data and controls the operability of the administrator computing device . The processor is connected to the input mechanism the output mechanism and the memory . Non limiting examples of the processor include processor of mobile electronic device . The processor is configurable to generate a security code in accordance with the certification data and output the security code through the output mechanism . The processor is configurable to receive a verification code associated with the guest computing device through the input mechanism and verify the verification code in accordance with at least one of the certification data and the security code .

The certification data identifies the administrator computing device or a module executing on the administrator computing device comprising instructions . In some example embodiments the certification data comprises a unique identifier to the administrator computing device a preloaded private certificate assigned by a trusted entity a signed output associated with the instructions or a value associated with a verified module comprising the instructions . In some example embodiments the certification data is associated with the instructions when the instructions are assembled into a module.

In some example embodiments the certification data comprises a private certificate assigned by a trusted entity such as the manufacturer of the administrator computing device or a certification authority. In these example embodiments the trusted entity may also make available a root certificate for verification of information signed in accordance with the private certificate. In other example embodiments the certification data is associated with the instructions to identify the author of the instructions as a trusted entity. In some embodiments the certification data may identify the author such that the instructions are granted access to private application programming interfaces APIs on the administrator computing device .

The certification data is provided on the administrator computing device to generate a security code that can be output by the administrator computing device through the output mechanism and verified by the guest computing device as associated with the administrator computing device or with a module comprising the instructions .

In some example embodiments of the administrator computing device the security code comprises a digital signature of some of the certification data and at least one of a pass code and a time stamp. Such a digital signature can be generated by a trusted entity comprising information to identify the trusted entity certificate use and other standard certificate information. Use of the certification data permits the transaction to subsequently be audited for authenticity. The pass code may be a unique password or random phrase or gesture entered by an administrator on a keyboard or touchscreen or a random number generated on the administrator computing device . The time stamp pass code and certification data may be combined to generate the security code as a digital signature to decrease the risk that the certification data can be uncovered from the security code and be used to impersonate the administrator computing device and obtain knowledge of the device capabilities of the guest computing device . In the wrong hands this knowledge could be used to compromise or attack the security of the guest computing device .

In some embodiments the certification data the verification data or both are generated by a process of digitally signing the associated module to confirm the author of the instructions comprising that module and guarantee that those instructions have not been altered or corrupted since the module was signed by use of for non limiting example a cryptographic hash. Cryptographic hash methods include but are not limited to MD5 SHA 1 AES 3 DES EAX ECC and other deterministic functions that process an arbitrary length datum into a fixed length datum such that an accidental or intentional change to the data can be detected.

The non transitory computer readable instructions comprise a set of instructions such as a module or a verified module that configure the processor to operate the administrator computing device in a specific manner. In some embodiments this module is contained in software modules or software applications of a mobile device .

The verified module comprises a set of instructions that are associated with an expected output such as a digital signature or a signed output. In some verified modules modification of the set of instructions comprising the verified module can be detected because an output from the modified module does not match the expected output associated with the verified module. By distributing copies of a verified module s expected output to devices that will interact with that verified module those devices can verify that the module is unmodified by comparing the module output to the copy of the expected output. Consequently the devices can expect the module to cause the device on which the module is executing to behave in a specific expected manner. In some embodiments at least some of the certification data is associated with a verified module comprising the instructions of the administrator computing device . In some embodiments at least some of the verification data is associated with a verified module comprising the instructions of the guest computing device .

In some embodiments the module or the verified module comprises the non transitory computer readable instructions and the non transitory computer readable instruction such that the certification data and the verification data are contained within the same module copies of which are executing instructions on the administrator computing device and the guest computing device . In such embodiments the verification data may comprise the certification data . In such embodiments it is not necessary for processes or data for verifying the certification data or the verification data to be made publicly available.

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to output the security code through the output mechanism . The security code is output for input by the guest computing device . In one example embodiment the security code is output on a display screen or touchscreen. In other example embodiments the security code may be broadcast using audio Wi Fi or Bluetooth for non limiting example.

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to obtain a verification code associated with the guest computing device through the input mechanism . In one example embodiment the verification code is obtained through a camera capturing an image containing the verification code displayed on the guest computing device . In another example embodiment the verification code is entered on a keyboard or touchscreen by an administrator observing the verification code displayed of the guest computing device . In this example embodiment the verification code may comprise a string of alphanumeric characters.

The processor is further configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to verify the verification code in accordance with at least one of the certification data and the security code . Verification of the verification code confirms to the administrator device whether or not the verification code was generated by the guest computing device by a verified module executing on the guest computing device or by a trusted entity. Verification of the verification code may also confirm to the administrator computing device whether or not the verification code was generated based on the security code to reduce the risk of fraudulent information being offered by the guest computing device . In some example embodiments the verification code comprises a digital signature of the security code or an output of a module comprising instructions .

Referring now to the guest computing device comprises an input mechanism an output mechanism a processor and a memory .

The input mechanism obtains information such as information displayed on or transmitted from the administrator computing device and information entered by a guest through the input mechanism . The input mechanism comprises at least one of a camera a keyboard a touchscreen display a wireless receiver a Bluetooth receiver a microphone and other devices for manual or automated input of information into the guest computing device . The input mechanism is connected to the processor and other components of the guest computing device .

The output mechanism transmits information from the guest computing device . The output mechanism comprises at least one of a display a touchscreen display a wireless transmitter a Bluetooth transmitter a speaker and other output devices for transmission or display of information on the guest computing device . The output mechanism is connected to the processor . In some embodiments the output mechanism is connected to other components of the guest computing device .

The memory stores data including instructions for execution on the processor and data to be accessed by those instructions such as verification data configuration data a security code associated with the administrator computing device and a list of device capabilities of the guest computing device . Non transitory computer readable instructions are stored in the memory for configuring the processor . Non limiting examples of the memory include flash memory protected memory and memory module of mobile electronic device .

The processor executes instructions generates data and controls the operability of the guest computing device . The processor is connected to the input mechanism the output mechanism and the memory . Non limiting examples of the processor include processor of mobile electronic device . The processor is configurable to receive a security code associated with an administrator computing device through the input mechanism . The processor generates a list of device capabilities from the configuration data and generates a verification code in accordance with the security code and verification data of the guest computing device . The processor outputs the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism .

The configuration data comprises information about the configuration of the guest computing device . In some embodiments the configuration data comprises the hardware and software capabilities of the guest computing device such as the presence of a keyboard microphone camera touchscreen Wi Fi Bluetooth memory expansion slot memory card global positioning system GPS accelerometer or other hardware or the presence of particular software modules and capabilities such as games an Internet browser simple messaging service SMS e mail service audio recording image recording or other audiovisual service or other applications and whether or not any of the aforementioned device capabilities are enabled. The configuration data may also comprise security configuration information of the guest computing device including security policy settings whether any hardware or software has been disabled such as by an IT policy and the versions of various internal applications such as the operating system or external certificates. In one example embodiment the configuration data comprises an IT policy list or a list of all IT policy settings on the guest computing device .

The list of device capabilities generated from the configuration data comprises any subset of the information contained in the configuration data . The list of device capabilities provides information about the capabilities and configuration of the guest computing device. In some embodiments the list of device capabilities can be adjusted by settings on the guest computing device or limited based on the authorization granted to the administrator computing device .

The verification data identifies the guest computing device or a module executing on the guest computing device comprising instructions . In some example embodiments the verification data comprises a unique identifier to the administrator computing device a preloaded private certificate assigned by a trusted entity a signed output associated with the instructions or a value associated with a verified module comprising the instructions . In some example embodiments the certification data is associated with the instructions when the instructions are assembled into a module.

In some example embodiments the verification data comprises a private certificate assigned by a trusted entity such as the manufacturer of the guest computing device or a certification authority. In these example embodiments the trusted entity may also make available a root certificate for verification of information signed in accordance with the private certificate. In other example embodiments the verification data is associated with the instructions to identify the author of the instructions as a trusted entity. In some embodiments the verification data may identify the author such that the instructions are granted access to private application programming interfaces APIs on the guest computing device .

The verification data is provided on the guest computing device to generate a verification code that can be output by the guest computing device through the output mechanism and verified by the administrator computing device as associated with the guest computing device or the verified module contained in memory .

In some example embodiments of the guest computing device the verification code comprises a digital signature of the verification data or a digital signature of the verification data and the security code of an administrator computing device when obtained through the input mechanism of the guest computing device . The verification code may also include a pass code such as a unique password input on the guest computing device through for non limiting example a keyboard or touchscreen. The verification code is generated in such a manner that when it is obtained by the administrator computing device the administrator computing device can verify that the verification code is associated with the guest computing device and may also verify that the verification code is associated with the security code generated and output by the administrator computing device .

In some embodiments the verification data the certification data or both are generated by a process of digitally signing the associated module to confirm the author of the instructions comprising that module and guarantee that those instructions have not been altered or corrupted since the module was signed by use of for non limiting example a cryptographic hash.

The non transitory computer readable instructions comprise a set of instructions such as a module or a verified module that configure the processor to operate the guest computing device in a specific manner. In some embodiments the verification data or certification data comprise expected output or signed output of the corresponding verified modules of their respective device s instructions . In some embodiments this module is contained in software modules or software applications of a mobile device .

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to obtain a security code associated with an administrator computing device through the input mechanism . In one example embodiment this security code is obtained through a camera capturing an image of the security code displayed on the administrator computing device . In another example embodiment the security code is entered on a keyboard or touchscreen by a guest observing the security code displayed on the administrator computing device . In this example embodiment the security code may comprise a string of alphanumeric characters.

In some example embodiments the processor is configured by further non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to verify the security code is associated with the administrator computing device or a verified module associated with the instructions stored in memory of the administrator computing device . If verification of the security code fails in some embodiments the guest computing device will restrict execution of the instructions in memory for example restricting or preventing access to the configuration data the list of device capabilities or outputting of the list of device capabilities . This form of restriction of execution of the instructions may also be employed in some embodiments where execution of the instructions in memory is restricted until a password attempt is input on the guest computing device and the password attempt when compared to a password stored in memory matches. This additional layer of security prevents malicious or unintended access to the configuration data and list of device capabilities which if accessed could provide an attacker with the information necessary to more expediently compromise the guest computing device .

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to generate a list of device capabilities of the guest computing device from the configuration data . As described above the list of device capabilities comprises a variety of possible configuration information about the guest computing device or a subset thereof based on settings on the guest computing device or based on the access granted to the requesting administrator computing device . In some embodiments only a portion of the list of device capabilities is output by the guest computing device determined based on the authorization of the administrator computing device . In some example embodiments the authorization of the administrator computing device may be determined during verification of the security code by the guest computing device or in further instructions.

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to generate a verification code in accordance with the security code and the verification data . The verification code is generated in such a manner that the administrator computing device can verify that the verification code is associated with the guest computing device some of the security code or both. In some example embodiment the verification code is generated as a digital signature of the some of verification data some of the security code or both. In some example embodiments the verification code comprises an output of a module comprising instructions .

The processor is configured by non transitory computer readable instructions stored in the memory to output the list of device capabilities and the verification code through the output mechanism . In one example embodiment the list of device capabilities is output to a display or touchscreen. The list of device capabilities is output to be observed or recorded by the administrator operating the administrator computing device . In some example embodiments the administrator computing device is capable of obtaining the list of device capabilities . The verification code is output for input by the administrator computing device to verify the verification code and thereby confirm that the list of device capabilities output by the guest computing device is authentic. In some example embodiments the list of device capabilities and the verification code are output concurrently to prevent a guest computing device from outputting the verification code and separately outputting a falsified list of device capabilities such as from a different module or different instructions. In some example embodiments outputting of the list of device capabilities and the verification code comprises using the verification code to alter the outputting of the list of device capabilities to the output mechanism . In further example embodiments outputting of the verification code and the list of device capabilities comprises generating a watermarked list of device capabilities including a watermark generated using the verification code and outputting the watermarked list of device capabilities. In some example embodiments outputting the verification code to the output mechanism comprises outputting an image of the verification code to a display or touch screen. In other example embodiments the verification code may be broadcast using audio Wi Fi or Bluetooth for non limiting example.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the instructions for obtaining a security code through an input mechanism verifying that the security code is associated with the administrator device generating a list of device capabilities the list including capabilities from configuration data and outputting the list of device capabilities through an output mechanism are contained in computer readable code within a computer readable medium such that the code is executable on at least one processor of a mobile electronic device such as device .

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure the instructions for obtaining a security code through an input mechanism verifying that the security code is associated with the administrator device generating a list of device capabilities the list including capabilities from configuration data and outputting the list of device capabilities through an output mechanism are contained in computer readable code within a computer readable medium such that the code is executable on at least one processor of a mobile electronic device such as device .

In a yet further embodiment of the present disclosure a computer readable code may comprise a verified module comprising at least one of instructions instructions and other instructions.

Referring now to an example method of operation of an administrator computing device is illustrated. One skilled in the art will readily understand that other sequences of operation are also possible and within the scope of the present disclosure.

At the administrator computing device generates a security code in accordance with certification data . The purpose of the security code is to permit a device receiving the security code to be able to identify that the security code is associated with the administrator computing device or a trusted entity. In some example embodiments generating the security code comprises obtaining a pass code on the administrator computing device and generating the security code in accordance with the certification data and the pass code. In this way some of the certification data can be better maintained private to the administrator computing device . If all of the certification data was known to another party that party could impersonate the administrator computing device and trick guest computing devices into divulging their capabilities to them. Consequently a pass code can be added to the generation of the security code to make extracting the certification data from the security code more difficult.

In some embodiments obtaining the pass code can comprise obtaining a string of characters on a keyboard or touchscreen forming a gesture on a touchscreen capturing an image with a camera or other readily available information input methods. Obtaining the pass code can also comprise inputting a random number from a random number generator. The inclusion of a pass code in the security code also decreases the chances that a malicious guest computing device can reuse a previous security code or verification code to trick the administrator computing device into believing falsified guest device capabilities. To further protect the certification data and randomize the security code in some example methods of operation generating the security code can include generating the security code in accordance with a time stamp.

In some example embodiments the security code may comprise a digital signature of the certification data the pass code the time stamp an output of a verified module associated with instructions or any combination of these.

At the administrator computing device outputs the security code through an output mechanism such as a display touchscreen display a wireless transmitter or other output device.

At the administrator computing device obtains a verification code associated with a guest computing device through an input mechanism . In some example methods of operation obtaining the verification code through an input mechanism comprises capturing an image containing the verification code through a camera. In other example methods of operation obtaining the verification code comprises obtaining the verification code through at least one of a keyboard and a touchscreen display. In other example methods of operation the obtaining comprises receiving the verification code through a microphone wireless receiver Bluetooth receiver or the like.

At the administrator computing device verifies the verification code in accordance with at least some of the security code and certification data . In some example embodiments the administrator computing device verifies the verification code in accordance with a copy of the verification data stored on the administrator device . For example in a non limiting embodiment the administrator computing device and the guest computing device may be executing the same module.

The purpose of verifying the verification code is to ensure that the verification code was actually generated by the guest computing device and not by some other device or some other module on the guest computing device . Furthermore if the verification code was generated in accordance with a security code generated by the administrator computing device the administrator computing device may verify that the verification code was generated by the guest computing device in response to the administrator computing device s security code . In this way the administrator computing device can avoid being tricked into accepting an old list of device capabilities from the guest computing device when the guest computing device s capabilities may have changed since the last time the two devices interacted.

Where the verification code is verified the administrator device may accept the displayed list of device capabilities of the guest computing device as authentic.

Turning now to an example method of operation of a guest computing device is illustrated. The example method of operation outputs a list of device capabilities to an administrator computing device . One skilled in the art will readily understand that sequences of operation other than the sequence of operation illustrated and described below are possible and within the scope of the present disclosure.

At the guest computing device obtains a security code associated with an administrator device through an input mechanism . In some example methods of operation obtaining the security code through an input mechanism comprises capturing an image containing the security code through a camera. In other example methods of operation obtaining the security code comprises obtaining the security code through at least one of a keyboard and a touchscreen display.

At the guest computing device verifies that the security code is associated with the administrator device or a trusted entity. In some example embodiments the guest computing device verifies the security code in accordance with a copy of the certification data stored on the guest computing device . For example in a non limiting embodiment the administrator computing device and the guest computing device are executing copies of the same module.

The purpose of verifying the security code is associated with the administrator computing device is to ensure that the device requesting a list of device capabilities from the guest computing device is actually the device that it purports to be. If the security code cannot be verified the security code may be from a device that is not the administrator computing device in which case generating or outputting the list of device capabilities may compromise the configuration data of the guest computing device . An imposter could attempt to request the list of device capabilities from the guest computing device to attack and compromise the guest computing device . If an attacker became aware of some of the configuration of the guest computing device it may become much easier to compromise the guest computing device. Consequently verification of the security code permits the guest computing device to identify the administrator computing device or the module comprising instructions .

Some example methods of operation of the guest computing device further comprise verifying that the administrator computing device is authorized to obtain at least some of the list of device capabilities from the configuration data . Some administrator computing devices may only be authorized for output of some of the list of device capabilities such as whether a security policy on the guest computing device has disabled the camera but not authorized to obtain other device capabilities such as the version of the security or encryption software installed on the guest computing device .

At the guest computing device generates a list of device capabilities . The list includes capabilities from configuration data of the guest computing device . Generating the list of device capabilities from configuration data has been described above.

At the guest computing device outputs the list of device capabilities through an output mechanism . In some example methods of operation of the guest computing device where a list of all device capabilities was generated outputting the list of device capabilities may comprise outputting a portion of the list of device capabilities that the administrator computing device is authorized to obtain.

Some example methods of operation of the guest computing device further comprise generating a verification code in accordance with the security code associated with the administrator computing device and verification data on the guest computing device . In such example methods of operation of the guest computing device outputting the list of device capabilities further comprises outputting the list of device capabilities and the verification code . The purpose of outputting the verification code in connection with the list of device capabilities is to permit another device obtaining the verification code to identify that the list of device capabilities was generated by a guest computing device that can be verified. In some example embodiments the verification code is generated as a digital signature of some of the security code some of the verification data or both. The digital signature can be verified by the administrator computing device . In other example embodiments the verification code is a signed output or digital signature of a verified module.

In some example methods of operation of the guest computing device where a verification code is generated outputting the verification code and the list of device capabilities comprises generating a watermarked list of device capabilities including a watermark generated using the verification code and outputting the watermarked list of device capabilities. In this way the verification code and the list of device capabilities are concurrently output and may be more difficult to separate and falsify. If the verification code and the list of device capabilities are not output concurrently it may be possible for a malicious guest computing device to output the verification code then switch to a different module that displays a false set of device capabilities.

In one example embodiment of the present disclosure a trusted entity authors a module comprising the instructions of the administrator computing device and the instructions of the guest computing device wherein the certification data and the verification data include private certificates assigned by the trusted entity. The trusted entity may include the manufacturer of the administrator computing device the guest computing device or both.

The module is digitally signed by the trusted entity to indicate the module is a verified module authored by the trusted entity and to permit detection of any unwanted modifications to the instructions comprising the module. The module can be stored in the memory of the administrator computing device and in the memory of the guest computing device for execution on their respective processors .

When stored in the memories of the administrator computing device and the guest computing device one method of operation of the above embodiment comprises the following actions.

The administrator computing device obtains a pass code generates a security code including a cryptographic hash including the pass code a time stamp and the certification data and outputs the security code on a screen of the administrator computing device .

The guest computing device obtains the security code by capturing an image containing the security code with a camera or by entering the security code as a string of characters on an appropriate input mechanism .

The guest computing device verifies the security code is a cryptographic hash in accordance with the certification data of the module stored in the memory of the guest computing device thereby verifying that the security code was generated by the module authored by the trusted entity.

The guest computing device generates a verification code as a cryptographic hash of some of the security code and some of the verification data and generates a list of device capabilities in accordance with configuration data on the guest computing device such as IT policies data on the guest computing device .

The guest computing device outputs possibly at the same time the verification code and the list of device capabilities on a screen of the guest computing device .

The administrator computing device obtains the verification code by capturing an image containing the verification code with a camera on the administrator computing device or by entering the verification code as a string of characters on an appropriate input mechanism .

The administrator computing device verifies the verification code comprises a cryptographic hash in accordance with some of the security code and some of the verification data of the module stored in the memory of the administrator computing device thereby verifying that the verification code was generated by the module authored by the trusted entity verifying that the verification code was generated in response to the security code and verifying that the list of device capabilities output by the guest computing device are authentic.

Turning now to an example embodiment of the present disclosure is partially illustrated including a trusted certification authority that issues certification data. The trusted certification authority comprises any trusted entity that issues certificates including for non limiting example a certificate authority provider a certification provider server or a device manufacturer operating as a certification authority.

The trusted certification authority issues the administrator computing device a private certificate K and a public certificate Cert to uniquely identify the administrator computing device and issues the guest computing device a private certificate K and a public certificate Cert to uniquely identify the guest computing device . The trusted certification authority may also provide a copy of its own public certificate Cert .

The certification data comprises the administrator computing device s private certificate K its public certificate Cert and the public certificate of the certification authority Cert . Similarly the verification data comprises the guest computing device s private certificate K its public certificate Cert and the pubic certificate of the certification authority Cert . Any of the public certificates may be stored in the memories of either computing devices such as in a trusted key store.

The security code generated by the administrator computing device comprises data forming a message from the administrator computing device M a nonce the administrator computing device s public certificate Cert and a signed hash of the administrator computing device s message and the nonce KHM nonce . The hash is signed using the administrator computing device s private key K .

The message M comprises information identifying that the purpose of the security code is to verify the administrator device and request a list of device capabilities and authentication information of the guest computing device.

The nonce is generated by the administrator computing device and included in the security code to uniquely identify the transaction the administrator computing device is commencing. The nonce may for non limiting example comprise a pass code a random number or a time stamp.

The administrator computing device outputs the security code and it is obtained by the guest computing device .

The guest computing device extracts from the security code the message from the administrator computing device M the nonce the administrator computing device s public certificate Cert and the signed hash KHM nonce . This may include verifying the structure of the data contained in the security code .

To verify the security code the guest computing device verifies the administrator computing device s public certificate Cert in the security code with the trusted certification authority . If the public certificate was successfully verified the guest computing device extracts the hash from the signed hash using the administrator computing device s public certificate CertKHM nonce and generates a hash of the administrator computing device s message and the nonce HM nonce . The guest computing device verifies the extracted hash CertKHM nonce against the generated hash HM nonce to verify that the security code was generated by the administrator computing device .

If the security code has been verified by the guest computing device the guest computing device generates a list of device capabilities and a verification code .

The verification code comprises data forming a message from the guest computing device M the public certificate of the guest computing device Cert and a signed hash of the message from the guest computing device and the nonce extracted from the security code KHM nonce . The hash is signed using the guest computing device s private key K .

The message M comprises information identifying that the purpose of the verification code is to verify the guest computing device to thereby authenticate the list of device capabilities in response to the security code .

The guest computing device outputs the verification code and the list of device capabilities . The verification code is obtained by the administrator computing device .

The administrator computing device extracts from the verification code the message from the guest computing device M the guest computing device s public certificate Cert and the signed hash KHM nonce . This may include verifying the structure of the data contained in the security code .

To verify the verification code the administrator computing device verifies the guest computing device s public certificate Cert in the verification code with the trusted certification authority . If the public certificate was successfully verified the administrator computing device extracts the hash CertKHM nonce from the signed hash using the guest computing device s public certificate and generates a hash of the guest computing device s message and the nonce the administrator computing device used to generate the security code HM nonce . The administrator computing device verifies the extracted hash CertKHM nonce against the generated hash HM nonce to verify that the verification code was generated by the guest computing device . If the security code has been verified then the administrator computing device can trust that the list of device capabilities output by the guest computing device in association with the verification code is an authentic representation of the device capabilities of the guest computing device .

It will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art that certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made consistent with and without departing from the present disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated the embodiments described in the disclosure shall be understood to be non exclusive of each other such that any embodiment can include different features of other embodiments. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive. Other embodiments consistent with the present disclosure will become apparent from consideration of the specification and the practice of the present disclosure taught and suggested herein. Accordingly the specification and the embodiments disclosed therein are to be considered exemplary only with the true scope and spirit of the present disclosure being identified in the following claims.

