---

title: Delivery of user-controlled resources in cloud environments via a resource specification language wrapper
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for the delivery of user-controlled resources in cloud environments via a resource specification language wrapper. In embodiments, the user of a client machine may wish to contribute resources from that machine to a cloud-based network via a network connection over a limited or defined period. To expose the user-controlled resources to one or more clouds for use the user may transmit a contribution request encoding the user-controlled resources in a specification language wrapper, such as an XML (extensible markup language) wrapper. The specification language wrapper can embed the set of user-controlled resources, such as processor time, memory, and/or other resources, in an XML or other format to transmit to a marketplace engine which can place the set of user-controlled resources into a resource pool, for selection by marketplace clouds. The specification language wrapper can indicate access controls or restrictions on the contributed resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880700&OS=08880700&RS=08880700
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08880700
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for the delivery of user controlled resources in cloud environments via a resource specification language wrapper and more particularly to platforms and techniques for receiving a contribution request from a user of a client machine to contribute resources of that machine to one or more clouds encapsulating that request in a specification language wrapper and transmitting that request to a cloud marketplace system to decode and make those resources available to support those clouds.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

In various cloud based architectures the cloud may be configured with a cloud marketplace system or engine which permits users of home laptop and or other client machines to connect to the cloud and make the resources of that machine available for use by the cloud in a controlled fashion. For instance the user of a home computer may choose to allow that machine to remain powered up overnight and to allow one or more cloud networks to extract processing power memory allocations and or other resources for use by the cloud on a limited basis. In aspects a cloud arrangement in which hardware software and or other resources can be accepted from public users who choose to contribute their own user controlled resources to the cloud can be referred to as a cloud marketplace system. In some cloud marketplace systems the intake and distribution of user controlled resources can be conducted using a bid system in which cloud providers may bid or offer to use resources made available by users. A bid for use of resources can consist of a payment and or other remuneration such as for example an offer for the user of cloud applications or services at a later time.

In existing cloud marketplace systems or other deployment systems of a contributory nature no mechanism format or standard exists by which a user can specify the resources they wish to offer or deliver for use. Different contribution requests may therefore differ or be incompatible across different cloud providers and in addition no capability exists to specify the access control features a user wishes to apply to the resources being delivered to the cloud. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for the delivery of user controlled resources in cloud environments via a resource specification language wrapper in which resource contribution requests access controls and other data can be encoded and transmitted in a standardized or commonly compatible or decodable specification language wrapper to a cloud marketplace system for decoding and deployment of user controlled resources.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interlace via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments as shown the client can host the set of user controlled resources again such as processor memory storage communications or Input Output I O application operating system and or other hardware or software resources. In aspects the user of the client may choose to contribute some or all of the set of user controlled resources to the cloud marketplace system to expose make available and or otherwise permit the use or exploitation of those resources by one or more clouds in the set of marketplace clouds . In aspects the user of client may choose to provide the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds during chosen periods of time such as idle off peak and or other periods of time such as merely for example from 9 00 p.m. to 6 00 a.m. during weekdays for a personal users or during weekend or holiday days for a corporate user. Other periods of time can be used. In embodiments the process of contributing the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds can be scheduled or triggered based on other conditions such as the entry of client into a sleep mode the decrease below a specified utilization percentage of the processor of the client and or other conditions or criteria. In aspects the contribution of the set of user controlled resources can also be made on a manual basis based on user input and or on an automated or scheduled basis.

In aspects as shown the contribution of some or all of the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds can be initiated by or incorporated in the transmission of a contribution request from the client to the cloud marketplace system . In embodiments the user can select or specify the set of user controlled resources via a resource list presented by the specification tool which can interact with an operating system of client to produce a list of the hardware software and or other resources present on the client . In aspects the specification tool can be configured to communicate with the cloud marketplace system via one or more networks for instance on a secure basis. The cloud marketplace system can itself be configured with the client and or other machines such as similar clients servers hosts and or other devices or machines via one or more networks and or other connections or channels to access a population of potential resources.

In aspects the contribution request can again be initiated based on user input via the specification tool on the client and or can be initiated or transmitted on an automated or programmed basis from a platform or service such as a scheduling module in the specification tool or a cloud based service. In aspects as generally shown the contribution request can be or include a specification language wrapper which embeds or encodes an identification of the set of user controlled resources . In aspects the specification language wrapper can encapsulate the specification of set of user controlled resources in a self describing data format such as extensible markup language XML to identify to the cloud marketplace system those hardware software and or other resources which are requested to be made available to the set of marketplace clouds to instantiate and or support those clouds their constituent virtual machines and or other elements of the set of marketplace clouds . For instance specification language wrapper can encapsulate delimited fields or other data structures that record data such as Machine ID 9108NH Processor 50 contribution Memory 2.0 GB contribution and or other fields objects and or values for instance in extensible markup language XML or other format.

After receipt of the specification language wrapper in embodiments the cloud marketplace system can extract or decode the specification of set of user controlled resources recorded therein and place the specification of set of user controlled resources into a resource pool for the set of marketplace clouds . In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can then match the set of user controlled resources with demands for resources expressed in the resource fulfillment request from one or more clouds of the set of marketplace clouds . For instance a cloud requesting a specified amount of processing cycles or throughput coupled with a specified amount of memory can obtain and register the set of user controlled resources for a specified interval of time such as over night hours or other periods of time. In aspects the user of client can be compensated by the cloud marketplace system the set of marketplace clouds and or other entities for the contribution of the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds for instance by a payment or credit to the user of the client by the delivery of goods or services such as software and or other exchanges of value. In aspects the user of the client can agree to contribute the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds on a donated or uncompensated basis.

In aspects and as shown the user can include a set of access controls in the contribution request and or the specification language wrapper . The set of access controls can specify for instance restrictions or conditions on the user of the set of user controlled resources by the set of marketplace clouds . For instance the set of access controls can specify or stipulate that the memory of the client will be protected from use within certain memory address ranges and or that hard disk storage will only be permitted in certain amounts or directory locations. Other access limitations or controls can be incorporated in the set of access controls .

In the specification tool can embed the specification of the set of user controlled resources to be contributed to the set of marketplace clouds in the specification language wrapper . In aspects the specification tool can embed the specification of set of user controlled resources in an extensible markup language XML wrapper or extractor as understood by persons skilled in the art so that the specification language wrapper comprises a self describing and or delimited data structure which in aspects can be directly compatible with and stored in extensible markup language XML based databases or data stores. In the set of access controls can be added to or inserted in the specification language wrapper as appropriate. For instance the set of access controls can comprise limits on the duration or time period in which the set of user controlled resources will be made available to the set of marketplace clouds. For further instance the set of access controls can specify boundaries on memory addresses which will not be made accessible to the set of marketplace clouds and or files or directories of hard disk or other storage which will likewise be made inaccessible to the set of marketplace clouds . Other resources in the set of user controlled resources can be controlled by the set of access controls .

In the specification tool can transmit the specification language wrapper to the cloud marketplace system and or other remote platform or service. In the cloud marketplace system can receive and or decode the specification language wrapper for instance by extracting the specification of set of user controlled resources from an extensible markup language XML based wrapper or extractor and or decoding other data structures or objects. In the cloud marketplace system can place the specification of set of user controlled resources into the resource pool of the set of marketplace clouds indicating that those resources are available to one or more clouds wishing to obtain or use those resources. In the cloud marketplace system can extract and or deploy the set of user controlled resources to one or more target clouds in the set of marketplace clouds for instance based on a match to one or more resource fulfillment requests received from the set of marketplace clouds . In embodiments the deployment of the set of user controlled resources can be performed using other mechanisms than matching the contribution request to the one or more resource fulfillment requests such as for instance deploying the set of user controlled resources directly to a cloud to which those resources had been previously or independently secured or registered.

In the cloud marketplace system can terminate suspend and or otherwise end the delivery of the set of user controlled resources to the set of marketplace clouds at the end of the contribution session or period for instance by detecting the conclusion of a time period for which the set of user controlled resources are scheduled to be delivered to the set of marketplace clouds . In embodiments the delivery of the set of user controlled resources can be terminated using other mechanisms or based on other conditions. For instance the cloud marketplace system can terminate the delivery or contribution of the set of user controlled resources based on the receipt of user input to spontaneously withdraw the set of user controlled resources from the set of marketplace clouds and or by detecting the violation of the set of access controls in the course of usage of the set of user controlled resources by the set of marketplace clouds . In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines set of virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which in embodiments. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

