---

title: Policy based video content syndication
abstract: An item of hosted content is received from a media host. A match metric representing an aspect of a match between the item of hosted content and an item of reference content, the item of reference content provided by a content owner having rights to the item of reference content. A policy associated with the item of reference content is identified responsive to the value to that represents the correspondence, the policy including terms of use for the hosted content. The policy is provided to the media host.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633014&OS=09633014&RS=09633014
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09633014
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100113
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 167 838 filed on Apr. 8 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention is generally related to identification and monetization of content. In particular the present invention is directed to a media syndication engine that identifies and monetizes digital content that matches copyrighted content.

The proliferation of media hosting web sites that allow users to upload multimedia content e.g. music content and video content for mass viewing has brought with it a number of challenges not the least of which has been how to detect and handle uploaded content in which other entities have rights.

A single work may have multiple rights holders and various entities may hold other rights with regard to the content. For example the author the publisher and the music label are just some of the many different entities that may have different rights in different countries. Videos have an additional layer of complexity including for example rights associated with any music played along with the video.

While Performing Rights Organizations PROs such as The American Society of Composers Authors and Publishers ASCAP exist to collect public performance royalties on behalf of the various copyright holders when their works are broadcast on the radio or on television this type of collection mechanism is not available in the online environment.

Before appropriate payment can be made to rights holders content must be correctly identified. Given the nature of user generated content UGC that is content provided by users to a media hosting web site detecting content on a media hosting web site that is subject to the rights of others has proven to be very difficult.

Further once content hosted on a media hosting site is identified processes must exist to facilitate the rights holder s ability to control how their content is provided to viewers by the media hosting sites. Existing solutions further fail to provide rights holders the ability to control important aspects of monetization of their content at media hosting websites.

Accordingly the rights holder must be given the ability to control how their content is monetized for example through advertising. Conversely the media host must also be given the ability to identify right s holders associated with content on their site and entire into agreements with the content owners which allow the media host to provide copyrighted content to viewers.

The present invention enables rights holders of digital content herein referred to as content owners to provide digital content to a media syndication server herein referred to as the VID server. Digital content provided by content rights holders to the VID server is herein referred to as reference content. The VID server is adapted to receive reference content provided by content owners in a number of different formats. The VID server is further adapted to receive metadata associated with the reference content.

The content owner also specifies policies for the reference content using interfaces provided by the VID server. A media host is an entity who provides media content to viewers. Typically the media host provides media content provided by other entities such as user generated content UGC . The policies specify which media hosts e.g. a set of websites run by media hosts may host and or provide items of digital content to users which match the reference content to viewers. The policies specify how the reference content may be used on sites when a match is found between digital content hosted by a media host and the reference content. The policies may further specify financial information such as information for advertisement revenue sharing between the media host and the content owners.

The media hosts also provide items of digital content to the VID server. Digital content provided by the media hosts to the VID server is herein referred to as hosted content. The VID server is adapted to receive hosted content in a number of different formats. The VID server is further adapted to receive metadata associated with the hosted content. The media hosts may also provide information indicating their default preferences for policy agreements.

Reference content received from the content owners and hosted content received from the media hosts is transcoded into a common file type once it has been uploaded. A fingerprinting module generates fingerprints for both the reference content and hosted content. Fingerprints for the items of hosted content and the items of reference content can then be compared to determine whether a match exists between an item of hosted content and an item of reference content. The term match as used herein can refer to a full match between the fingerprints for the items or a partial match between any sub portion of the fingerprints. Match metrics are generated based on the match where the match metrics quantify different aspects or degrees of the match. The match metrics include a duration metric which specifies a quantity of space and or time over which the item of hosted content matches the item of reference content. The match metrics further include a proportion metric which specifies a value indicating the duration of the match relative to the total quantity of space and or time of the item of hosted content. The match metrics further include a confidence metric which specifies a likelihood of the match between the item of reference content and item of hosted content. The match metrics further include an offset metric which specifies a time period corresponding to an offset between the reference content and the hosted content. According to the media type of the media content different fingerprints may be generated for different channels associated with the content e.g. audio channels video channels or both and used to generated match metrics specific to the channel.

The specified policies for the reference content are retrieved by the VID server. If one or more of the match metrics indicates a match between the hosted content and the reference content the policy for the item of reference content is provided to the media host associated with the hosted content. According to an embodiment the policy provided may require the media host s agreement to provide activity information about the hosted content prevent the hosted content from being distributed provide the hosted content to viewers under restrictions specified by the policy and or share revenue generated from providing the hosted content to content viewers.

Advertisers may bid to display advertisements in association with the reference content. Using interfaces provided by the VID server advertisers can also view match metrics indicating the number of media hosts providing hosted content matching reference content. Advertisers can further view activity information concerning the reference content including the frequency at which hosted content matching the reference content is viewed by content viewers for example at a website associated with a media host. Based on this information advertisers may bid on the an advertisement i.e. agree to provide funds in exchange for displaying advertisements in association with hosted content matching reference content . Advertisers may then submit advertising information such as digital content which contains advertisements herein referred to as ad content to the VID server.

Content owners can access the VID server via the communications network and view activity information and advertising information concerning their reference content. Content owners can also edit policy information for different media hosting websites. In one embodiment different policies may be associated with a single media hosting website and a single item of reference content depending on the geographic location of the computer downloading that content from the media hosting website. Similarly different policies can be associated with a single media hosting website and a single item of content depending on the identity of the content viewer or the viewing or uploading platform.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof.

The figures depict preferred embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The upload server is configured to received uploaded content from the media host interface and the content owner interface and is one example of a means for doing so. Although only a single upload server is illustrated in for clarity each can be implemented as multiple servers. Other servers may handle other aspects of the VID server not discussed here. It will also be understood that the described uploading of content is not intended to be limited to content uploaded or downloaded via the Internet or the http protocol.

For proposes of clarity only one media host system content owner system and advertiser system are shown though in practice there will be any number of such systems including even hundreds or millions of media host systems content owner systems and advertiser systems . The media host system content owner system and advertiser system can access media host interface the content owner interface or the advertiser interface respectively using any type of computer system and or any type of communications network. The computer system can be a laptop desktop cell phone handheld device thin or thick client device or any other appropriate computing platform. The communications network may be a wireless network a cellular network a local area network or any other type of network by which digital information may be transmitted. A content owner is an entity that owns or controls at least some of the rights to a particular work. The content owner may be an individual a group of individuals or an entity such as a music or video production company or studio artists group royalty collection agency or the like.

The VID server is configured to allow content owners to provide reference content specify policies for the reference content and monetize reference content and is one example of a means for doing so. The VID server requires content owners to register with the VID server . According to an embodiment the content owner may provide a specified amount of funds to register with the VID server . The content owner may provide the registration funds on a one time or on a periodic e.g. monthly yearly basis. In some embodiments the content owner may provide a specified amount of funds in exchange for services performed by the VID server .

The content owner interface is configured to enable content owners to provide reference content to the VID server via the upload server and is one example of a means for doing so. Reference content may include audio video a combination of audio and video or still images. Content owner interface in one embodiment includes user and application programming interfaces for bulk processes such as ftp for exchange of content files and policy information. According to an embodiment reference content may be provided in any type of digital format. The content owner may provide metadata associated with the reference content including the title of the reference content the international standard recording code ISRC the artist director of the reference content the recording label of the reference content an episode title number of the reference content the season of the reference content and actors in the reference content. In other embodiments the content owner interface further allows the content owner to upload metadata associated with the reference content in a standardized format such as a site profile which specifies types of metadata associated with data fields in the uploaded reference content.

The content owner interface is further configured to enable content owners to provide policies in association with the uploaded reference content. The policies may specify media hosts allowed to provide digital content matching the reference content to viewers and a set of media hosts that are not allowed i.e. blocked from providing digital content matching the reference content. The policies may further specify a requirement for the media hosts to provide activity information for hosted content matching the reference content. The policies may further specify financial terms such as a fee for a media host to provide content matching the reference content or a requirement for the media host to share revenue received from the monetization of hosted content matching the reference content. Terms for sharing revenue from the monetization of content may include a defined percentage of revenue received by the media host and a defined percentage of revenue received by the content owner . The policies may specify terms of use of the reference content such as restrictions on providing the reference content to viewers based on the context of the viewers. The context of the viewer may be based for example on the geographical location of the viewer and or age of the viewer.

Through the content owner interface the upload server receives reference content and policy information from content owners and stores the received information in reference content database and policy database respectively. The upload server communicates with the transcoder to transcode the received reference content into a common file format before storing the transcoded reference content in the reference content database . In one embodiment each item of reference content is assigned a unique identifier in the reference content database . The unique identifier is additionally stored along with the policy information and content owner information in the policy database . The fingerprinting engine generates digital fingerprints for each item of reference content and stores the digital fingerprints in the reference content fingerprint database in association with unique identifiers for the items of reference content. In alternate embodiments the content owner transcodes the hosted content generates fingerprints for the hosted content and uploads the hosted content fingerprints to the VID server in association with metadata for the hosted content.

A media host is an entity that provides digital content to the content viewers. A content viewer is a computer that receives media from the media host . Media hosts can include media hosting websites social networking websites and media publishers such as YouTube . Media hosts can also include other entities that provide and or organize collections of media content such as libraries museums etc. In some instances a media host may also be a content owner .

The media host provides the media content to content viewers though a media hosting server which may be a web server or other type of server. In various embodiments the content viewer may receive the hosted content via download of the file by streaming or by any other method of receiving media content over a communications network.

The VID server is further configured to allow the media host to identify hosted content that matches reference content enter into policy agreements with content owners and monetize hosted content. Hosted content may include audio video a combination of audio and video or still images. In most embodiments the VID server requires media hosts to register with the VID server . According to an embodiment the media hosts may be required provide a specified amount of funds to register with the VID server . The media hosts may also be required to provide a specified amount of funds each time a service is provided by the VID server . The media host may be required to provide a specified amount of funds each time the VID server processed hosted content or indicia of hosted content uploaded by the media host .

The media host interface is configured to enable the media host to upload hosted content to the VID server via the upload server . According to an embodiment the media host interface may allow the media host to upload hosted content in bulk using processes for bulk transfer of information such as ftp. The media host may provide metadata associated with the hosted content including the title of the hosted content the international standard recording code ISRC the artist director of the hosted content the recording label of the hosted content an episode title number of the hosted content the season of the hosted content and actors in the hosted content. Additionally the media host interface may allow the media host to upload metadata associated with the hosted content in a standardized format such as a site profile which specifies different types of metadata associated with items of hosted content.

The upload server is further configured to store the hosted content in the hosted content database in association with identifiers specifying the media host who uploaded the content and unique identifiers for the hosted content. The upload server communicates with the transcoder to transcode the received hosted content into a common file format before storing the in the hosted content database in associated with unique identifiers for the hosted content and the media host. The fingerprinting engine functions to generate digital fingerprints for each uploaded item of hosted content. The digital fingerprints for the hosted content are stored in the hosted content fingerprint database in association with the unique identifiers for the hosted content and the media hosts . Alternatively the media host transcodes the hosted content generates fingerprints for the hosted content and uploads the hosted content fingerprints to the VID server in association with metadata for the hosted content.

The media host interface is further configured to enable the media host to provide information regarding default policy agreements to the policy engine . Default policy agreements can allow the media host to specify terms of policies the media host agrees to by default. In one embodiment the default policy agreements include an agreement to provide activity information for hosted content an agreement to provide hosted content under restrictions an agreement to prohibit distribution of hosted content and an agreement to share advertising revenue generated from displaying hosted content. The policy engine stores the default policy agreements in the policy database .

The crawling engine is configured to crawl the Internet in order to identify hosted content on media host websites and is one example of a means for doing so. In an alternate embodiment the media host is not required to register with the VID server but instead identified responsive to the crawling engine crawling the internet to identify hosted content at media host websites. Based on the identification of hosted content by the crawling engine the VID server may provide the identified media hosts a request for the media host to register with the VID server . In some embodiments the crawling engine may be further configured to store and analyze the identified hosted content. In these embodiments the crawling engine transmits the identified hosted content to the transcoder and or the fingerprinting engine to generate fingerprints for the identified hosted content. The fingerprinting engine stores the fingerprints for the identified hosted content in association with a unique identifier for the hosted content and the media host identified by the crawling engine .

The fingerprinting engine is further configured to compare the hosted content fingerprints in the hosted content fingerprint database with the reference content fingerprints in the reference content fingerprint database . Based on the comparison of a hosted content fingerprint and a reference content fingerprint four different metrics are generated a confidence metric specifying the confidence of a match between an item of hosted content and an item of reference content a duration metric specifying a duration of the match between the item of hosted content and the item of reference content a proportion metric specifying a proportion of a match between the item of hosted content and the item of reference content and an offset metric specifying a an offset between item of reference content and the item of hosted content. The match metrics generated for each pair wise comparison of items of reference content and items of hosted content are stored in the content match database .

The policy engine is configured to retrieve policy information from the policy database and store policy agreements and default policy agreements in the policy database and is one example of a means for doing so. The policy engine further functions to compare policy agreements with policies. If one or more of the metrics is above a threshold the policy engine retrieves the policy associated with the item of reference content from the policy database . If the policy does not prohibit the media host from entering a policy agreement with the content owner the policy engine compares the policy with the default policy agreements specified by the media host . If no default policy agreements are specified by the media host or the default policy agreements specified by the media host do not match the policy the policy engine transmits the policy to the media host interface . The media host interface presents the policy to the media host . The media host may agree to accept the terms stated in the policy in order to provide the hosted content to content viewers. The policy engine stores the policy agreement received from the media host in the policy database .

The activity engine is configured to communicate with the media host interface to receive activity information for items of hosted content associated with policy agreements and advertising contracts. In most embodiments the media host is required to provide activity information to the VID Server such as the frequency at which the hosted content is viewed user click through rates associated with the hosted content number of user streams and or ratings associated with the hosted content. In some embodiments the media host may also be required to provide activity information regarding the viewers who view the media content such as demographic information geographic information and information regarding other hosted content the viewers request from the media host. In a specific embodiment the media host anonymizes the activity information before providing the activity information to the VID Server . In another embodiment the activity engine anonymizes the received activity information. The media host may provide activity information to the VID server on a continual or periodic basis.

The activity engine provides activity information to the content owner interface and advertiser interface . The activity engine further provides activity information to the advertising engine . The activity engine stores the activity information in the activity database .

The advertiser interface provides information associated with hosted and reference content to the advertisers . Using the advertiser interface the advertiser may view match metrics indicating the number of media hosts hosting media content that match reference content and the quality duration and proportion and offset of the matches. The advertiser interface may also display activity information indicating the frequency at which hosted content that matches reference content is viewed and the popularity of the hosted content. Based on this information the advertisers can bid to display advertisements in association with hosted content that matches a specified item of reference content.

The advertising engine receives advertiser bids associated with items of hosted content matching an item of reference content. An advertiser s bid specifies an amount of funds the advertiser agrees to provide in exchange for the display of an advertisement in association with an item of hosted content matching an item of reference content. The advertising engine further receives digital content containing the advertisements to be displayed herein referred to as advertising content. In alternate embodiments the advertising engine receives indicia of the advertising content such as a link to the advertising content. The advertising engine stores the advertiser bids and ad content in association with unique identifiers for the items of reference and or hosted content in the advertising database . The advertising engine communicates with the activity engine to receive activity information indicating the number of times advertisements are displayed in association with hosted content matching reference content.

The advertising engine calculates an amount of funds to be received from the advertiser based on the received activity information. The advertising engine further communicates with the policy engine to determine the revenue sharing policy specified in the policy agreement between the media host hosting an item of hosted content matching an item of reference content and a content owner having rights to the item of reference content. Based on the revenue sharing policy the advertising engine determines an amount of the funds received from the advertiser to distribute to the content owner and an amount of the funds received from the advertiser to distribute to the media host . In most embodiments the advertising engine further determines an amount of funds that are received by the entity that owns or administrates the VID server .

Referring to the upload server receives policies from the content owners . The upload server receives reference content from the content owners . Transcoder converts the reference content from one file type to another in order to standardize content. This enables upload server to accept reference content provided in various different formats while still being able to compare the reference content to the hosted content. In one embodiment transcoder converts uploaded video content into the Adobe flash file type .flv .

The fingerprinting engine generates digital fingerprints for the reference content. The fingerprinting engine generates digital fingerprints for one or more channels corresponding to different media types associated with the reference content such as audio channel or a video channel. The fingerprinting engine can generate digital fingerprints using any type of algorithm or transform that encodes or captures information in the reference content such as values of features in the reference content. Suitable algorithms and transforms include spectral encoding cryptographic hash functions.

In one embodiment the algorithm or transform used to encode information transforms the digital content into one or more digital fingerprints consisting of an alphanumeric string or stream of information. In this embodiment the generated alphanumeric string has a length size that is proportional to the temporal length and or spatial size of the media content. For instance a two minute video would have a digital fingerprint half the length of a four minute video. In some embodiments the media content is segmented into temporal or spatial sub portions and fingerprints are generated for each of the temporal or spatial sub portions. According to the media type different sets of fingerprints can be generated for different aspects of the content. For instance a set of fingerprints may be generated for audio content associated with a video that is separate from a set of fingerprints generated for the video content.

The fingerprint engine stores the reference content fingerprints in the reference content fingerprint database .

Referring to the upload server receives default policy agreements from the media hosts . The upload server receives the hosted content from the media hosts .

Transcoder converts the hosted content from one file type to another in order to standardize content. This enables upload server to accept hosted content provided in various different formats while still being able to compare the hosted content to the reference content. In one embodiment transcoder converts uploaded video content into the Adobe flash file type .flv .

The fingerprint engine generates digital fingerprints for the hosted content as described above in regards to the reference content. The fingerprinting engine generates digital fingerprints for one or more channels corresponding to different media types associated with the hosted content such as audio channel or a video channel. The fingerprint engine stores the hosted content fingerprints in the hosted content fingerprint database .

The fingerprint engine identifies a reference content fingerprint stored in the reference content fingerprint database and a hosted content fingerprint stored in the hosted content fingerprint database for analysis. In one embodiment the fingerprint engine may identify the hosted content fingerprint and or the reference content fingerprint whenever new hosted content fingerprints or reference content fingerprints are generated.

The fingerprinting engine analyzes the reference content fingerprint and the hosted content fingerprint to generate match metrics. The fingerprinting engine generates pair wise match metrics based on reference content fingerprints associated with items of reference content and hosted content fingerprints associated with items of hosted content. In one embodiment a match metric represents a measure of the degree of match between a reference content fingerprint or portion thereof and a hosted content fingerprint or portion thereof thus the match metric can be considered as a measure of similarity between these fingerprints. In one embodiment the fingerprinting engine compares one or more reference content fingerprints associated with items of reference content represented as alphanumeric strings with one or more reference content fingerprints associated with items of reference content represented as alphanumeric strings. In this embodiment the fingerprinting engine uses algorithms that identify portions of alphanumeric strings that in order to identify matches between the reference content fingerprint s and the hosted content fingerprint s . Suitable algorithms for identifying matches between data represented in the alphanumeric strings include string alignment algorithms string matching algorithms Hamming distance algorithms Manhattan distance algorithms or Euclidean distance algorithms. Other algorithms for identifying a match between data represented in the alphanumeric strings may include probabilistic algorithms which indicate the likelihood that two alphanumeric strings are similar.

Based on the identified match between portions of the reference fingerprint s and the hosted content fingerprint s the fingerprinting engine generates four different match metrics a duration metric a proportion metric an offset metric and a confidence metric. In most embodiments the confidence value corresponds to a value which quantifies the identified match or likelihood of the identified match.

The duration metric is a value that indicates a quantity of space and or time over which the item of reference content matches the hosted content. In one embodiment the fingerprinting engine generates the duration metric by determining the portion of time and or space which corresponds to the portions of the reference content fingerprints and hosted content fingerprints with identified similarity. The proportion metric is a value that indicates the quantity of space or time over which the item of reference content matches the hosted content relative to the temporal and or spatial size of the item of reference content or the item of hosted content. In one embodiment the fingerprinting engine generates the proportion metrics by determining a ratio of the value indicated by the duration metric over a value indicating the length and or size of the item of reference content or the item of hosted content. The offset metric indicates a portion of time by which the item of hosted content differs from the item of reference content. The fingerprinting engine generates the offset metric by determining the temporal portion of time and or space which corresponds to the portions of the reference content fingerprints and hosted content fingerprints that do not match. In a specific embodiment the offset metric may represent the portion of time at the beginning of the hosted content that does not match the reference content.

The policy engine identifies a policy specified for the reference content associated with the match metrics. In alternate embodiments there may be a policy specified for an item of reference content may not be identified i.e. the content owner is not required to specify a policy when uploading the item of reference content . The fingerprinting engine determines whether there is a match between an item of reference content and an item of hosted content based on one or more of the match metrics for a match exceeding a defined threshold value for the match metric. In one embodiment the defined threshold values for the match metrics may be defined by the content owner in the policy for the item of reference content. For example a content owner may specify a duration threshold value of 1 minute is required for a match between items of hosted content and items of reference content owned by the content owner . Likewise a content owner may specify a confidence threshold value of 80 is required for a match between items of reference content and items of hosted content. Standard threshold values for each of the match metrics can be defined by an administrator of the VID server and used where the content owner has not defined their own values. The match metrics are stored in the content match database .

If the fingerprinting engine determines that the item of reference content and the item of hosted content do not match the fingerprinting engine continues to generate match metrics for other items of reference content and items of hosted content. If the fingerprinting engine determines that the item of reference content and the item of hosted content match the policy engine determines whether the media host hosting the item of hosted content is prohibited from providing items of hosted content matching the item of reference content based on the policy specified for the item of hosted content matching the item of reference content. In embodiments where there is no policy is specified for an item of reference content the policy engine transmits contact information for the content owner associated with the item of reference content to the media host hosting the item of hosted content along with information regarding the match.

If the media host is prohibited from hosting content matching the reference content the VID server transmits instructions to media host to remove or destroy the hosted content matching the reference content. If the media host is not prohibited from hosting content matching the reference content the policy engine determines whether default policy agreements specified by the media host correspond to the terms of the policy. For example the policy engine may determine that the default policy agreements include an agreement to provide activity information which matches a policy specified by the content owner requiring provision of activity information.

If the default policy agreements specified by the media host correspond to the terms of the policy then the media host provides activity information regarding the item of reference content to the VID server . If the default policy agreements specified by the media host do not correspond to the terms of the policy or the media host has not specified default policy agreements then the VID server transmits the policy to the media host via the media host interface . The VID server receives instructions from the media host which indicate whether the media host accepts or declines the terms stated in the policy.

If the media host accepts terms stated in the policy then the media host provides activity information regarding the item of reference content to the VID server and indicia of the media host s acceptance is stored in the policy database . Indicia of the media host s acceptance may be include for example an electronic signature or a message.

In the illustrated example one region provides inputs for the content provider and the media host to specify metadata associated with the reference content and the hosted content. The inputs illustrated include inputs for metadata including the title description and tags associated with the reference and hosted content.

In region the content owner and or media host selects whether the content to be uploaded is reference content or hosted content. Region further includes a control object the content owner specifies policy information . In the embodiment illustrated the policy information includes whether a media host hosting content matching the uploaded reference content is required to provide the content owner with activity information labeled track whether the media hosts hosting content matching the uploaded reference content are prohibited from providing the hosted content to viewers labeled block and whether media hosts hosting hosted content matching the uploaded reference content are required to share revenue generated from monetizing the hosted content with the content owner labeled revenue share .

In region the media host further specifies default policy agreement information associated with the reference content. In the embodiment illustrated the default policy agreement information corresponds to the policy information specified by the content owner . In the embodiment illustrated the default policy agreements includes whether the media host agrees to provide the content owner with activity information labeled track associated with the hosted content matching reference content whether the media hosts agrees not to provide hosted content matching reference content to viewers labeled block and whether media hosts agrees to share revenue generated from monetizing hosted content matching reference content with content owners labeled revenue share .

Finally a location e.g. on the content owner s server is specified in box and the reference content and hosted content is then uploaded to system .

Once a selection has been made from in region a media host display section displays a set media hosts to the content owner for further selection. In one embodiment a content owner may select a media host by specifying a media host by its associated uniform resource locator URL rather than selecting the media host from the media host display section . In the example illustrated information associated with a media hosts may be displayed including the number of international sites associated with the media host the total number of views the media host receives the number of views the media host receives over a specific time period default policy agreements accepted by the media host policies selected by the content owner and the number of items of hosted content for which the media host has policy agreements. In the example illustrated the policies specify whether the media host is required to provide activity information for hosted content or share revenue from monetizing the hosted content such as through displaying advertisements with the hosted content.

The user interface page further includes a blocked media hosts section which allows the content owner to specify a set of media hosts who are prohibited from providing hosted content to users if the hosted content matches reference content uploaded by the content owner to the VID server .

According to the embodiment policy specification for items of reference content that have been submitted by multiple content owners resulting in conflicting claims may be handled in different ways. In one embodiment the policy engine places conflicting claims associated with items of reference content into a conflict queue. The conflicting claims are processed by the content owners to determine which content owner has rights to the item of reference content. In this embodiment the content owner who has rights to the item of reference content will specify policies associated with the item of reference content. In another embodiment the content owner with the majority of rights for the item of reference content will specify policies associated with the item of reference content.

In another embodiment if there is a conflicting claim the multiple content owners may jointly specify policies associated with the item of reference content. In this embodiment the policy engine determines whether policies specified by multiple content owners differ. If the policies differ the policy engine may arbitrate policy conflicts by presenting the specified policies to the multiple content owners . If the specified policies associated with the item of reference content include monetization of the reference content revenue from the monetization of the reference content will be split between the multiple content owners .

The user interface page also includes a reports section which displays activity information and advertising information associated with reference content. In the example illustrated the reports section displays activity information and revenue information associated with all of the content owner s items of reference content. In other embodiments the reports section is used to display activity information and revenue information associated with a single item of reference content. The reports section displays a chart showing the funds earned through monetization of the items of reference content. The reports section also displays the total number of impressions for ad content displayed in association reference content i.e. number of times the ad content is displayed to a viewer . The reports section also displays an average number of clicks the ad content displayed in association with reference content receives and the average click through rate CTR associated with the displayed ad content. The reports section further displays the average estimated cost per mille eCPM associated with the ad content displayed in association with the reference content the ePCM specifies the average amount of funds required for one thousand impressions associated with an item of ad content i.e. displaying an advertisement in association with the reference content one thousand times . The reports section further displays the average funds earned by displaying ad content in association with the items of reference content.

In alternate embodiments one or more controls may be displayed which allow advertisers to bid to display advertising content in association with the items of reference content. The controls may allow the advertiser to specify an amount of funds they are willing to provide to display an advertisement in associated with hosted content associated with the reference content. According to an embodiment the advertiser may select to display an advertisement in associated with all items of hosted content matching an item of reference content or a specific item of hosted content matching an item of reference content. For instance an advertiser may select to display an advertisement only with a specific video which uses a song as background music instead of all videos which use the song as background music.

The content owner receives from the VID server activity information for hosted content that matches reference content owned by the content owner . The activity information is provided by media hosts who have agreed e.g. through default policy agreements or acceptance of the policy to a policy that specifies terms for sharing revenue from monetization of hosted content between the content owner and the media host . The content owner receives an indication that an advertising bid has been submitted by an advertiser the advertising bid specifying an advertiser s agreement to display ad content in association with hosted content matching the item of reference content. The content owner also receives funds based on the number of displays of the ad content in association with the hosted content and the terms for sharing revenue specified in the policy.

The media host provides to the VID server activity information for reference content including number of views click through rates number of streams demographic information associated with viewers etc. The media host receives an indication that an advertising bid has been submitted by an advertiser from the VID server the advertising bid specifying an advertiser s agreement to display ad content in association with hosted content matching the item of reference content. The media host receives ad content corresponding to an advertising bid associated with the item of reference content from the VID server . The media host continues to provide activity information for the item of hosted content to the VID server including activity information specific to the ad content such as the number times the media host displays the ad content in association with the item of hosted content and click through rates for the displayed ad content. Furthermore the media host may provide activity information specific to the ad content such as the number of streams associated with the ad content. The media host receives an amount of funds based on the number of displays of the ad content the number of click throughs of the ad content and or the number of streams of the ad content that is in association with the hosted content and the revenue sharing terms specified in the policy. In one embodiment a stream of an ad content is based on a threshold amount of time that the ad content is viewed by a user on the media host . In most embodiments the media host is either periodically credited with an amount of funds by the VID Server as shown or periodically receives funds electronically from the advertiser not shown or the VID server .

The advertiser receives activity information about an item of reference content including the number of views of hosted content matching the reference content metadata associated with the reference content such as the title of the reference content or an artist associated with the reference content the number of matches between the hosted content and the reference content. Based on the information the advertiser provides an advertising bid the advertising bid representing an agreement to provide funds based on the displayed ad content in association with one of more items of hosted content matching the reference content. In some embodiments the advertiser may elect to provide an advertising bid specific to a media host . In other embodiments the advertiser may elect to provide an advertising bid for all media hosts . The advertiser provides ad content to the VID server the ad content to be displayed in association with hosted content matching the reference content. The advertiser receives activity information specific to the ad content including the number of times the ad content is displayed in association with hosted content matching the reference content. The advertiser provides funds based on the number of displays of the ad content in association with hosted content matching the reference content. In most cases the advertiser is either periodically debited the amount of the funds by the VID server or the advertiser periodically electronically transmits the funds to the VID Server .

The VID server receives activity information for an item of hosted content from a media host the hosted content matching an item of reference content and the media host having provided an agreement to a policy for the reference content provided by the content owner . The VID server provides the activity information for the hosted content matching the reference content to the content owner and the advertiser . The VID server receives an advertising bid from the advertiser the advertising bid indicating an agreement to provide funds based on the display of ad content in association with hosted content matching the item of reference content. The VID server provides an indication of the advertising bid to the content owner and the media host . The VID server receives ad content to be displayed in association with the hosted content matching the item of reference content. The VID server provides the ad content to the media host . The VID server receives activity information specific to the ad content from the media hosts the activity information including the number of times the ad content is displayed by the one or more media hosts . The VID server provides the activity information specific to the ad content to the advertiser . The VID server receives funds from the advertiser based on the activity information specific to the ad content specifically the number of times the ad content is displayed in association with hosted content matching the reference content. The VID server allocates funds received from the advertiser between the media hosts the content owner and the entity that administrated or operates the VID server according to the terms specified in the policy agreement between the media host and the content owner . The VID server allocates funds to each media host proportional to the number of times the media host displayed the content. The VID server identifies the revenue sharing terms specified in policy agreement between each of the media hosts and the content owner who owns the reference content

According to the terms specified in the policy the funds can be allocated between the media host the content owner and the VID server in any appropriate way such as sharing by percentage split by a flat payment and so on as specified by the content owner in the policy agreement. In some embodiments a default percentage split is used to allocate funds if the content owner does not provide a percentage split in the policy. Where multiple content owners exist they may share together in the negotiated revenue. This is particularly so for example in the case of music due to the highly fragmented rights holder landscape.

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to a limited number of embodiments. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may additionally be practiced in other embodiments.

Within this written description the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead be performed by a single component. For example the particular functions of fingerprinting engine policy engine and so forth may be provided in many or one module.

Some portions of the above description present the feature of the present invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or code devices without loss of generality.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the present discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as selecting or computing or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description above. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

Finally it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention.

