---

title: Call access management
abstract: Receiving a request from a device for an incoming call to a called number. Obtaining presence information of the called party. Presenting the obtained information via the calling device. Presenting action option(s) including an option to proceed with the call. Receiving an action choice corresponding to proceed with the call. Presenting a request for credentials to the calling party. Receiving credentials corresponding to a calling party permitted to continue with the call. Proceeding with the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08369505&OS=08369505&RS=08369505
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08369505
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100414
---
Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the technology. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the technology only not as a limitation of the technology. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present technology without departing from the scope or spirit of the technology. For instance features described as part of one implementation can be used on another implementation to yield a still further implementation. Thus it is intended that the present technology cover such modifications and variations that come within the scope of the technology.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example implementations below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some implementations.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many implementations includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some implementations.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various implementations the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some implementations. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some implementations the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various implementations the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some implementations the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some implementations in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many implementations Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

In this implementation the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one implementation communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example implementation the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another implementation of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this implementation the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . The conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

In a common scenario a mobile device user desires not to be contacted via one or more modes of contact e.g. voice SMS under certain circumstances e.g. circumstances settable by the user circumstances determinable by a presence server . For example a user may desire not to be disturbed by a phone call when in meeting. Another user may desire to receive calls while driving only with the mobile device in hands free mode. Incoming calls can disturb a called party e.g. when the called party is busy e.g. a caller dials a colleague s mobile telephone number while the colleague is in a meeting e.g. a caller dials a spouse at home while the spouse is napping with their child. From the calling party s perspective a calling party may not wish to ring a spouse s phone during a child s nap.

Implementations of the present technology can be useful to both the calling party and the called party. In some implementations the calling party receives an indication of called party status and called party wishes. The displayed status and wishes can be a function of presence where the relationship between presence and the displayed status and wishes can be defined by a profile of the called party. The calling party can be prompted for a choice whether or not to proceed and can be prompted for credentials before being allowed to proceed. Credentials can be e.g. repeating keys 4321 or some number the calling device prompts the user to input or a secure password that only certain individuals are given. If credentials are supplied correctly then the call is allowed to proceed. If credentials are supplied incorrectly then the call can be directed to voice mail or terminated.

For example if a called party is in a meeting from 2 00 p.m. 4 00 p.m. with called party s boss. This meeting is on called party s calendar. Called party chooses to share this information both busy status during that time and the title of the meeting with others. Calling party calls called party at 3 00 and receives the following prompt is currently from to . Press 1 to proceed with the call 2 to proceed to voice mail 3 to hang up. If the calling party presses 1 the calling party is prompted for credentials. Upon receipt of the proper credentials the call is allowed to proceed.

Implementations of the technology employ availability information of a called party and access control when managing communications between a calling device of a calling party and called device of the called party. Typically when a calling party dials a telephone number from a calling device the call is placed without regard to the availability of the called party. If the called device is in use a busy signal may be returned to the calling device or the called party may be notified of an incoming call with a tone or message. If the called device goes unanswered for a number of rings then it is typical for a voicemail service to be connected so that an announcement may be presented to the calling party and the calling party may leave a message. If the called device is not in use and the calling device is not blocked the called device rings. As described above this can be counter to the called party s wishes.

Referring to exemplary methods of the technology are illustrated in the context of a system of . In such methods a third party call control service management platform SMP can receive a request for an incoming call to a called number within the control of the SMP . The SMP can obtain presence information of a party associated with the called number the called party . For example the SMP can obtain presence information from a mail server that maintains a calendar of the called party or the SMP can obtain presence information from a presence server not shown of the system .

The SMP can present the presence information to the calling party e.g. via the calling device . For example upon dialing a called number presently in use the technology can prompt the calling device with an unavailable status message of the called party obtained from a presence server shared by the calling device and the called device such as is in a meeting right now. Further the SMP can present a message from the called party e.g. regarding circumstances under which the called party is open to communication e.g. emergency calls only accepting SMS messages only. Such messages can be accepted from the called party by the system prior to receiving a call request they also can be based on a profile that identifies appropriate messages based on obtained presence information.

The SMP can also present one or more first action options via the calling device including at least e.g. proceed with the call in light of s status. As a further example where the called device profile reflects presence information indicating that the user associated with the called device is in a meeting from 2 00 p.m. 3 00 p.m. and a call is initiated to the called device at 1 30 p.m. the system can respond with the following text displayed at the calling device is in a meeting between 2 00 p.m. and 3 00 p.m. Press 1 to ring s phone Press 2 to leave a voice message for Press 3 to send an SMS to Press 4 to terminate the call. Each of the status of the called user and the option to proceed can be provided to the calling device via text or voice.

The SMP can receive an action choice from among those action options presented via the calling device . If at least one valid action choice is not received after a period of time then the SMP can timeout with regard to action choices and take a preselected default action e.g. cancel the call though such preselected default actions are not limit to the action options presented to the calling device .

In an example upon receipt of an action choice the SMP either 1 proceeds with the call e.g. the system received input that the calling party wishes to proceed even given the status of the called party 2 routes the call to voice mail e.g. the SMP received input that the calling party wished to continue to voice mail 3 accepts an SMS message or 4 terminates the call i.e. the SMP received input that the calling party wishes to terminate the call. Other responses to other received inputs are possible such as prompting for accepting a page number. Such inputs can be voice text or other inputs known to those of skill in the art.

Referring to if the SMP receives the action choice proceed with the call in light of s status or similar action choice then the SMP can present a request for credentials to the calling party via the calling device e.g. please input credentials in order to proceed with the call. The SMP can receive credentials input . If credentials input is not received after a period of time then the SMP can timeout with regard to action choices and take a preselected default action e.g. cancel the call though such preselected default actions are not limit to the action options presented to the calling device .

If the SMP receives proper credentials input corresponding to a calling party permitted to continue with the call then the call proceeds according to the protocol of the system . Credentials can be of the form of a pass code a password voice recognition a calling device identifier Automatic Number Identification ANI Caller Identification Caller ID and various combinations thereof. As examples pass code and voice recognition can be required voice recognition can be used in conjunction with a calling device identifier. In the case of using a device identifier as credentials the step of presenting a request for credentials can be omitted and credentials can be obtained from the calling device itself. If the SMP receives improper credentials the technology does not proceed with the call and handles the call request according to its protocol for improper credentials.

Implementations of the technology can employ profiles for controlling incoming call access to the device . Profile contents can be compatible with Request For Comments RFC 4480 Rich Presence Extensions to the Presence Information Data Format RPID RFC 4481 RFC 4482 Contact Information for the Presence Information Data Format with fields to support features of the present technology e.g. limitations on the mode of the communication e.g. no text hands free answer only positive negative access lists and access criteria e.g. as described below . Positive access lists identify those callers and calling devices including groups of callers and groups of calling devices which can complete a call to the device upon satisfaction of other access criteria including open access . Such lists are variously referred to as white lists. Negative access lists identify those callers and calling devices including groups of callers and calling devices which are not allowed an opportunity to present other access criteria. Such lists are variously referred to as black lists and banned caller lists.

While and its corresponding description herein disclose an SMP capable of performing much of the exemplary method other elements of the system or other systems in communication with elements having access to the described data can be used. For example as shown in the calling device A and the called device B can serve as proxies for access to the data elements in enterprise network A of the calling device A and data elements in the system of the enterprise network B of the called device B. Such an approach can be used to transfer a portion of the processing demand to the devices and allow the devices to serve as an abstraction mechanism facilitating e.g. standardization of messages between devices with less regard for the system specific syntax requirements of the respective systems of the devices.

The present technology can take the forms of hardware software or both hardware and software elements. In some implementations the technology is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. In particular for real time or near real time use an FPGA or ASIC implementation is desirable.

Furthermore the present technology can take the form of a computer program product comprising program modules accessible from computer usable or computer readable medium storing program code for use by or in connection with one or more computers processors or instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium though propagation mediums in and of themselves as signal carriers are not included in the definition of physical computer readable medium . Examples of a physical computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. Both processors and program code for implementing each as aspect of the technology can be centralized or distributed or a combination thereof as known to those skilled in the art.

A data processing system suitable for storing a computer program product of the present technology and for executing the program code of the computer program product will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters can also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters. Such systems can be centralized or distributed e.g. in peer to peer and client server configurations. In some implementations the data processing system is implemented using one or both of FPGAs and ASICs.

