---

title: Method and apparatus for generating a web site using a multi-dimensional description of the website
abstract: A technique for generating a web site in accordance with received data entry by: determining at least one characteristic of at least one web site dimension of the web site based on the data entry; generating a multi-dimensional description of the web site based on the determined characteristics; retrieving web site data according to the generated multi-dimensional description of the web site; and generating the web site based upon the generated multi-dimensional description of the web site and the retrieved web site data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08677234&OS=08677234&RS=08677234
owner: Decentrix, Inc.
number: 08677234
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 09 651 906 filed on Aug. 30 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 779 352 which claims the benefit under U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. provisional application 60 163 782 filed on Nov. 5 1999 and U.S. provisional application 60 184 300 filed on Feb. 23 2000 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.

This application is based upon and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 163 782 filed Nov. 5 1999 and 60 184 300 filed Feb. 23 2000 which are incorporated herein by reference. Reference is made to the concurrently filed applications of Underwood et al. Method and Apparatus for Storing Web Site Data by Web Site Dimensions and Generating a Web Site having Complementary Elements Ser. No. 09 651 907 Method and Apparatus for Providing Conditional Customization for Generating a Web Site Ser. No. 09 652 612 Method and Apparatus for Generating and Modifying Multiple Instances of an Element of a Web Site Ser. No. 09 651 874 Method and Apparatus for Generating a Link to a Presented Web Page Ser. No. 09 651 875 Method and Apparatus for Generating a Web Site with Dynamic Content Data from an External Data Source Integrated Therein Ser. No. 09 651 796 incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for providing a universal interface for managing content on large computer networks and other devices.

In recent times the World Wide Web maintained on the Internet as well as other large networks of computers and other devices has become a prevalent communications medium for wide ranging purposes from information gathering and exchange to commercial transactions. As personal devices such as computers personal digital assistants PDA s cellular phones etc. are becoming increasingly integrated with this medium individuals are becoming more reliant on the content and services offered. As a result it has become an important marketing and sales tool for various businesses.

For example a business can advertise its products or services accept orders for its products and services receive various inquiries and other information from the general public and in many other ways increase the ability to provide information to the public through the Web.

To take advantage of this new media outlet it is necessary for a business to design and maintain a web site that users can visit and to permit the desired interaction with the users. The procedure for designing a web site has historically taken one of two paths. First it is possible for a business to purchase a software package that aids in generating such a web site. However the look and feel of the web site would typically be similar to all other web sites generated with the same software package because the number of choices of design or templates is limited. Additionally it may be difficult to coordinate and pool a wide range of skills from various personnel required to create such a web site. Furthermore web sites created with such a software product typically do not have the level of complexity desired by businesses.

To overcome these drawbacks a business may hire an outside consulting firm to generate its web site. Such a consulting firm may be an expert in web site generation and may include personnel able to generate a high quality complex web site in accordance with the business owner s desires. However use of an outside firm includes various drawbacks. There is typically a long delay in generating a web site because the outside service is busy with many clients. Additionally the business owner who has the most in depth understanding of the business is not directly involved with the generation of the web site and therefore must relate this information to the web site designers who then use this information to generate the web site. It may take a number of iterations for the business owner to have his or her ideas about the business properly included in the web site. Additionally because an outside consultant is designing the web site artistic control for the web site must be given from the business owner to the web site designer. While the business owner may have the opportunity to make comments during design of the site it is not possible for the business owner to be involved on a day to day basis in every aspect of the design of the site. Indeed this is why outside designers are hired but at a cost. The resulting site may not be precisely what the business owner desires and may be very expensive to implement.

Further once the design of the web site is completed and the site is up and running on the World Wide Web the maintenance costs for maintaining and updating a site may be substantial. Any additions to the site such as adding new pages or new sections may be very expensive. Furthermore such added pages may not fit in with the overall scheme of the web site thereby resulting in an unwieldy site. Additionally while a web site may provide links to other web sites it is typically difficult for an individual user to incorporate various complementary programs within its web site such as calculators or other business or scientific related information that perform a function.

Therefore in general the use of an outside firm to provide a web site isolates the business owners from the finished product in a way that the web site may become unwieldy to update and therefore less useful for a business owner.

One of the current trends in web site development products is the ability to drag objects and position them anywhere on the screen. While this ability would seem to be beneficial the process of dragging objects around a screen may result in the user drastically affecting the compatibility of their web site with their visitors. This problem is a result of the user possibly placing objects outside of the visibility of the visitors web browser. Such a problem may arise if the user is developing a web site at say 1024 768 resolution but the visitor is viewing the web site at 800 600 resolution. A user may place an object in a location that is unviewable by the visitor. Another example of incompatibility is when a user is developing a web site in a 800 600 resolution but the visitor is viewing the web site at say 1024 768 the visitor will see a large area of space that does not fill the browser because of fixed width development of the web site. This development trend is seen as limiting as it does not cater for future screen and browser resolution compatibility.

The barriers to completing a usable and impressive web site noted above arise as a result of the division that exists between a business that wishes to advertise through a web site and the resources required to create and maintain that site. The skills required include hardware and software maintenance business analysis authoring of the web site with various page layout features graphic design generation of the web site content actual computer programming and maintaining of a required data base. These skills require specialized knowledge of various tools by a user including flow charting tools various programming language knowledge such as in HyperText Markup Language HTML JAVA JAVASCRIPT etc. graphic design using Photo Shop Paint Shop Pro or other graphics design program use of a word processor and use of various database programs.

As is obvious these skills and products require people having widely differing backgrounds to work together as a team to create a quality product that exists in what many naturally feel to be both a new and alien environment the Internet. These people who collectively possess the skills to create a particular web site are not likely to be the owners of the business that is requesting the web site and indeed in many cases are not in any way connected to the business owners who wish to generate the web site or to each other. For this reason maintenance of a quality web site in house is very costly and may be nearly impossible for many small businesses. Any web site that cannot be properly maintained soon fails in its goal of being an inexpensive efficient accurate and flattering representation of the company. As the information included in the web site becomes out of date and unprofessional graphics and layouts are incorporated by unskilled personnel during maintenance the entire look and feel of the web site deteriorates.

In general these methods of web site generation may be categorized as one to one that is each individual web site requires the participation of a programming and design team to implement and maintain the site. Moreover it has also recently become desirable to have an outside company host the web site to absorb the costs of maintaining the server hardware and software up to date and to flexibly handle variations and unexpected changes in traffic and volume of visitors and transactions on the web site. Such an outside company may be colloquially referred to as a server farm . In general a server farm seeks to create economies of scale by having a single company that is expert in the maintenance of the web server maintain and update the hardware and software necessary for the operation of a number of web sites. As web traffic and business grows each company having a web site with the server farm will in theory not have to individually maintain personnel capable of scaling the servers to handle the traffic and business.

But to date the server farm theory has suffered from the problem that control of the web site is further disconnected from the operators of the business. Changes to the content structure and design of the web site are complex and expensive. Because the design and implementation are one to one there has been no means available for rapid proliferation of sites hosted by an outside server host i.e. a method that does not require involvement of an experienced design and or programmer for each site that is to be hosted.

Therefore it would be beneficial to provide a web site generation method and apparatus that overcomes these drawbacks.

Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide an improved method and apparatus for web site generation that harnesses and coordinates all the resources required for creating updating and maintaining a quality web site.

A further object of the invention is to provide an improved method and apparatus for web site generation that allows a user to make various selections regarding design of a web site and for the web site to maintain an overall consistency regardless of these choices.

Another object of the invention is to provide an improved method and apparatus for web site generation that allows for the collection of various information from an external database to be used in making automatic selections regarding the design of a web site.

An additional object of the invention is to provide an improved method and apparatus in which a user may change the look and feel of a web site easily and throughout the web site but the content and navigation of the web site is maintained.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide an improved method and apparatus for web site generation that allows various applications to be launched from within the generated web site while maintaining a user at the web site.

A still further object of the invention is to allow those who are responsible to a particular business individual or other party to control manage and easily modify both the content and the presentation style of the information in the web site.

It is an additional object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for web site generation and maintenance that allows for centralized hosting of a number of web sites through a method that allows for rapid proliferation of the hosted sites without the need for experienced design and programming personnel to be involved on a site by site basis.

It is yet a further object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for generating a functional web site that allows for the taking and fulfillment of purchase orders.

Yet another object of the invention is to capture differing skills of individual people necessary to generate a web site so that these skills can be combined in a 1 to many format thereby insuring that a single person or skill is not restricted to a single web user but becomes available to all users.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a method and apparatus where each graphical image can be stored as images and yet have textual content rendered and delivered as part of the graphical image thus providing a dynamic method of providing a combination of content and graphical information.

Still other objects and advantages of the invention will impart the obvious and will impart the apparent from the specification and the drawings.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a Universal Content Manager UCM is provided by integrating within one Internet navigation interface a complete business web site solution extranet private Network enabling companies to safely and efficiently deal with partners vendors and suppliers LifeSite providing individuals and families with fully realized and powerful personal Internet capabilities comprehensive e mail management and storing and retrieving business financial and or personal information.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention there is provided an improved method and apparatus for generating and maintaining a customized web site and more particularly to a method and apparatus for allowing an inexperienced user to make various design and content selections for generation of a customized web site. Regardless of the selections made by a user correspondence between these selections is maintained by the apparatus such that each web site appears as a customized individual web site. A user may be prohibited or discouraged from making design choices that might detract from the overall look and feel of the site.

The user portion of the system includes a web site provider hereinafter Definer which acts as an assembly line for an end user to generate a customized web site. The Definer references a large amount of diverse resources and presents them to a user for easy and intuitive assembly into a polished complete web site. All of these resources can be provided to the end user without the need for any specialized knowledge on the part of the user and without the necessity for the user to be in direct contact with any skilled contributors to the web site generation process. The Definer is the user interface or front end of a suite of complementary products designed to create a cohesive environment allowing various people with the numerous skills noted above that are required to build a web site to perform in harmony thereby generating an environment that facilitates teamwork between web creators and web or business owners.

The Definer in accordance with the invention includes various modules including a site provider Site Definer for defining the structure content and embedded applications of a web site a framework provider Framework Definer which provides various layout variations for a web site an image provider Image Definer which allows for the selection and maintenance of various images on a web site a Project Manager which coordinates the three prior Definer Publishing products to produce a professional multi dimensional web site solution and a web provider Web Definer which is the end user tool that allows a user to select various combinations and to edit the web site. Through the use of such a system technicians not related to the business owner can contribute essential elements to the production of a web site including business analyses graphics page layout and copyrighted content that may be used in a business owner s web site and various applications that may also be incorporated into the web site. Because the provision of all of these features are provided independent of a business owner designing a web site the end result of the work of each of the designers providing the above information will be available for all users during generation of each of their web sites.

A business owner therefore need only interact with the Web Definer to create and maintain a finished polished web site. The Web Definer allows the owners of a web site to choose both the image including look and feel and the content information that their web site will present even though in most cases the owners of the business do not have the technical skills required to achieve this objective from scratch. Thus the Web Definer brings all of the elements created by skilled personnel using various tools and skills together in a powerful and intuitive interface that can be easily used by non technical end users to create and maintain unique web sites of a professional quality. The Web Definer performs this function by collecting all essential elements of a web site and then simply allows the business owner to arrange color and combine these essential elements in an almost infinite number of ways. Thus the Web Definer acts as a web kaleidoscope wherein by a user simply pressing various buttons or making other simple choices the elements of a user s web site rearrange themselves in accordance with various parameters until a desired effect is obtained. Additionally maintenance can be performed at any time and the look and feel of a particular web site can be changed in a matter of minutes. This is because the Web Definer while allowing a user to change the look and feel of a web site maintains the content and navigation of the web site if the user desires without making any changes thereto. In this way rather than tediously redefining and recording new areas of a web site to see how changes would be incorporated it is simple for a user to simply select a new look and feel colors or any one of the other number of almost infinite combinations to re present its web site in a different light. In the preferred embodiment the process of rearranging or regenerating selected features of the web site while keeping others constant is so simple that the user can create view and save for future consideration a large number of different versions by trial and error all within a matter of minutes.

The web site designing method and apparatus of the present invention are unique in that the method and apparatus provide great functionality traditionally provided by a diverse range of products and services into one cohesive environment launched from a globally accessible platform through the Internet or other computer network. The product includes a shared proprietary repository of finite interchangeable independent resources that can be easily combined to create an almost infinite number of web sites and allows for all human resources to contribute and be accessed at a single location.

Further the invention preferably allows for the alteration of the structure of the web site by allowing pages or sections to be moved added or deleted with all referencing and referenced portions to be updated automatically. Accordingly a page can be added simply by specifying the referencing page s and links will be automatically provided on the referencing pages. This change to the navigation is performed automatically. There is no need for a designer to reprogram the links on every referencing page.

An additional feature of the invention permits rapid proliferation of web sites hosted by a central server system. The web sites generated by the invention may themselves reference a central hosting system containing the necessary software and hardware for carrying out the invention. Thus each web site generated provides access for additional users to generate their own web sites which in turn provides additional points of access. Each site so generated may be hosted on the same centralized system eliminating the need for the business owner or other site generating person or entity to host and maintain the necessary equipment and personnel. Thus the invention enables for the first time a true one to many method and apparatus allowing for rapid proliferation of sites hosted on a central server form.

By providing a self replicating method for generating a multitude of vastly different unique web sites the invention provides a one to many method for generating and hosting web sites overcoming a major obstacle present in current web generation methods and devices. In other words in the preferred embodiment a single web site generator according to the invention can be used to generate a vast number of unique professional web sites hosted by a single host which may be comprised of whatever hardware and software is necessary to host the business and traffic created by the sites hosted.

It should be noted that although the invention is herein generally described in the context of business applications it is equally useful for non business applications such as individual or family web sites and may be used by non profit businesses government agencies or bureaus or almost any individual group or organization desiring a web site for any legal purposes.

The method and apparatus in accordance with the invention ease the web site design process by providing various features. These include navigation variation and presentation separation business driven content colors and What You See Is What You Get WYSIWYG editing. These features will each now be described.

The method and apparatus in accordance with the invention provide a unique navigation model to protect users from one of the main maintenance obstacles faced by those using traditional authoring tools maintaining navigation through the web site when the web site is edited. In accordance with the invention the navigational links that provide access to all pages of a user s web site are maintained no matter how the user changes or manipulates the underlying structure of the site such as the look and feel or the content. This is achieved in accordance with the invention by an algorithm that governs the most efficient way to maintain links between pages of the web site based upon their structural relationship with one another. Thus the presentation of the site remains consistent no matter what changes the user makes. With the time consuming error prone task of maintaining navigation out of a user s way the user is free to organize and present their web site in any way they like without worrying about maintaining the navigation.

In accordance with the invention each user can present a unique web presence to the marketplace with very little effort. In accordance with the invention a large collection of images called image sets are available. Each image set is diverse in nature but conforms loosely to a theme. Once a user chooses a particular image set he or she can select from among the pictures in the set and combine these images in any way to create a unique web site with any combination assured to appear professionally designed. This is referred to in the invention as a multidimensional presentation. Almost an infinite number of combinations are available so that a user s web site not only looks professional but also unique.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention while the features of the web site are all intertwined the invention allows a user to change one or more of most of the attributes of the invention without affecting the other attributes of the web site. The presentation structure navigation content target resolution etc. of each web site are maintained independently from each other. Any of these major attributes may be changed at any time without affecting the others. Thus a user may change the content navigation or even the entire look and feel of the site and the other attributes are maintained and automatically updated to incorporate the user s change. This ability allows for more frequent less expensive updates of the user s web site.

The invention insures 1 that users are able to publish a quality web site with a minimum amount of work 2 that the content of the web site is customized for a user s business and 3 that a user s web site can include all of the most up to date features for a particular industry pre created industry content may be provided to a user . In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention pre created industry content dynamic content is provided to a user in one of over 200 industry groups. This content is then customized to each user based upon answers to various questions. The answers to these questions generate site wide variables that set the look and feel of the site. Changing of any of the variables affects the entire site in a cohesive manner including the addition or removal of industry based content. A user can therefore generate a customized web site including individual and industry based content. In addition the user can edit the textual and graphic content and can import its own content including logos and or graphics and text that the user has previously created. The user s various information could also be obtained from an external database.

While a user can change many attributes of the web site these changes may be maintained within a predetermined range in accordance with the method and apparatus invention. Thus for example when a user wishes to change a color the user may be limited to only colors that have been determined to be safe in regard to the other colors employed for the site. Re coloring of images may be limited to aesthetically pleasing colors and may also prevent certain colors such as black or white from changing. Users can recolor images and be sure that the selected colors will aesthetically blend with the colors on the remainder of the web site.

The method and apparatus of the invention may also provide a user with WYSIWYG editing so that any change requested by a user is immediately implemented for viewing by the user.

The present invention is particularly suited for electronic commerce applications including both business to consumer and business to business applications. In one preferred embodiment the web site generated is configured so that all aspects of an electronic business can be maintained on a single web site.

The web site may be maintained so that there are a variety of passwords or other identification method including cookies each of which may allow specialized access to various portions of the site. For example a potential customer may have a general user password or may require no password. Such a user would preferably have access to all informational and purchasing areas of the web site. The customer could place orders for various items offered for sale and could obtain all of the information on the products and the business offered throughout the web site. A different user for example in the warehousing segment of the electronic business would preferably have access to a running inventory list of all items purchased by the on line customers with all appropriate routing delivery and other information which could be used either directly from the web site to fulfill the customer s orders or downloaded onto the user s own computer system for further processing. Other users could have further different types of access. For example the accounting personnel could have access to a segment of the web site that maintained data on all sales profitability payments etc. Marketing personnel could have access to various types of information that could be collected during the purchasing process such as personal profile data on the various types of consumers who purchase different types of goods the origination of business as click throughs from other web pages or from other sources projections etc. One particularly beneficial aspect of this feature is that it allows for efficient use of outsourcing i.e. the accounting or marketing user can be an outside firm who has full access to all necessary information without having to physically visit the premises of the business. A large accounting or other professional firm can provide a standard interface to all of their customers so that all data is provided in a uniform and efficient manner.

The web site can be configured to include all of the necessary software to perform accounting marketing routing delivery and other functions such that the entire electronic business is hosted at the centralized web site server system. Alternatively portions of the business may be hosted at the various physical locations where the business operates.

The web site may be formatted so that it presents a different appearance depending on a number of factors including the access password or other identification provided by the user e.g. user profile navigation history etc. or the capabilities of the device used to access the web site. For example accounting personnel who log on may be presented only with the relevant accounting data in a format to which they are accustomed. Likewise a customer or sales person who accesses the site through a reduced capacity device such as a personal digital assistant such as those currently marketed under the tradename Palm Pilot a cellular telephone or other communication device including those that have not yet been developed would preferably be presented with the web site in a format usable by the accessing device. The web site can be configured so that it recognizes the format of the accessing device and presents a format that can be transmitted and used by the accessing device.

The web site may include content in any of a number of formats including text graphics audio video audio video or other media that may be developed. The web site may also be generated to HTML that re scales dynamically. In other words the web sites that the product generates may dynamically automatically resize down to a resolution of 800 600 pixels which is usually the lowest level of most people currently using on PCs. This resolution is increased depending on the visitor s equipment. The site can also be formatted during editing to depict the look of the site on a reduced capacity device such as a palm computer cellular telephone or the like. Thus a user can design and view a web site for a variety of preview devices of differing capabilities.

The invention also provides for an area in the customer control panel where a user can get a list of all the different sections available for use in a web site with a description of what each does and the ability to preview the pages in the sections. These sections can be generated by third party developers and may include external components developed using a software development kit SDK . If the user likes a particular component the user would enter a credit card number click a button and that section would appear in the user s site and be paid for by the user.

Therefore in accordance with one aspect of the invention an easy to use method and apparatus is provided that removes many of the complexities of designing and maintaining a web site. A user is provided with suggested content based upon an industry of the business that can be modified as desired. Navigation is maintained independent of the designer. A graphical representation of this navigation is shown. The removal or addition of a page automatically generates an updated navigation. The style colors or art employed can each be modified without concern for the others the content or the navigation. The inventions allow a designer to choose what he or she wants and for direct implementation. No intermediaries are necessary.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention an easy to use method and apparatus is provided for designing a targeted publishing marketing web site that provides the method and apparatus tools for building and maintaining web sites of the invention to users and or businesses of a certain category. For example a designer may integrate new suggested content navigation styles colors art etc. into a targeted publishing marketing web site where new users of a certain category may create new web sites by choosing from the suggested content navigation styles colors art etc. provided by the designer.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the UCM of the invention a web environment may be provided for personalized content to an end user. In addition to creating a virtual storefront web site on the web the Definer may be used to design a web site that provides a single URL access for site management of the storefront web site and all other aspects of web surfing including personal content of individual end users. The population of content in a UCM web site may be based on a web site owner s business interests indicated by an individual user or suggested by the UCM based on the user s profile. The UCM web site provides a venue for businesses to provide targeted goods and or services and to provide a flexible one stop web experience for end users. Its features include user profile orientation natural web site navigation for content organization navigation driven context sensitive billboard content complete communication services including email management chat group calendar web site creation and publishing and Integrated business services.

The invention accordingly comprises the several steps and the relation of one or more of such steps with respect to each of the others and the apparatus embodying features of construction combinations of elements and arrangement of parts that are adapted to effect such steps all as exemplified in this disclosure.

Communication software including browser software e.g. NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR or MICROSOFT EXPLORER is installed at each client terminal for communicating information with server via the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP . Server is identified by a predetermined Uniform Resource Locator URL on Internet . Therefore to access the UCM in accordance with the invention including the Definer interface for web site generation provided by server a modem not shown or other communication means in client terminal is used to first establish a communication connection with Internet . In addition to a plain old telephone service POTS connection using a conventional modem it is well known that client terminals may establish connections to Internet through different high speed connections such as an integrated services digital network ISDN a digital subscriber line DSL a fiber optic cable a T1 line or the like. Wireless connections may also be used.

After the establishment of communication connection client terminal is assigned an IP address for identification on Internet . The user at client terminal may then communicate with server by accessing the aforementioned identifying URL through Internet . In accordance with the invention the user at client terminal is able to access the Universal Content Manager in accordance with the invention.

One aspect of the Universal Content Manager is a Definer software for generating a complete quality web site by communicating with server .

Referring now to a structure of Definer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is illustrated and described. As shown in the Definer comprises a Site Definer a Framework Definer an Image Definer a Project Manager and a Web Definer.

Site Definer provides an interface for designing web site navigation models and content types known as vertical market solutions with the simple interface usable by a vertical market analyst.

Framework Definer provides an interface for producing creative web site frameworks that are separate from the content userspace of a web site. The designs may be HTML table layouts.

Image Definer provides an interface for a Graphic Designer to create images to match a specific Framework layout and are designed by theme type. The design is based on an image brief provided by the Project Manager which includes the theme and the quantity of images needed. Preferably all the image sets are developed with a minimum of 5 image sets per theme and a minimum of 5 Frameworks.

Content Definer provides content for a vertical market solution created using Site Definer. It includes site navigations most suited for specific industries. Content Definer also provides for industry specific questions that allow a user to customize a web site. The questions may be automatically generated as a customized questionnaire of multiple choice questions multi selectable answer and variable entry boxes. The content and navigation of a web site may be generated based on the answers to a questionnaire. Content Definer also provides industry specific components and text descriptions to be included in a web site. It includes a feature for developing a specification request for developing a component to a development partner. This information about a business may also be collected from a database.

Project Manager coordinates a number of the Definer Publishing products to produce a professional multi dimensional web site solution. It receives the requirements from the Site Definer sends an image brief to an Image Definer sends a site definition to Content Definer for specific industry content determines the number of available frameworks and corresponding image sets and coordinates the completion of a web site generation project for Web Definer.

Web Definer provides a template web site which is generated using the other Definer modules to an end user according to the characteristics of the end user s business and or the end user s preferences provides an interface for editing the provided template web site into a unique web site and publishes the web site created by the end user onto the World Wide Web.

As noted above box provides text entry spaces and for entering a previously defined account name a user name under the account name and the corresponding password respectively. Server authenticates the entered information after a click on OK button . If the information from spaces and correspond to a valid previously defined existing user under a valid account then client terminal is directed to a web page comprising services and links designed for the existing user as will be described in detail below.

As shown in Definer page comprises links to individual modules for designing editing and publishing a web site such as a Site Definer link a Section Definer link a Layout Definer link a Framework Definer link an Image Definer link and a Web Definer link .

As described above Site Definer is a design module for creating the generic structures content and embedded applications for web site templates. Framework Definer provides tools for defining various layout variations for a web site or template based on layouts created using Layout Definer. Image Definer provides for creating and importing images to be incorporated on a template in the context of layout defined using Framework Definer or a new web site created using Web Definer. Section Definer provides tools for creating generic sections to be incorporated to a template or web site. Web Definer is the end user tool that allows a user to design edit and publish a web site using the templates layouts and images.

In summary the core concept of the Definer is the separation of the content layout structure and appearance of a web site and its presentation. Advantageously a user can change the one characteristic without affecting the others. For example Definer allows a user to change the presentation of a web site without affecting the content of the web site and vice versa.

It is noted that an embodiment of the invention includes a URL for identifying a separate initial welcome page at server or a separate server wherein membership access is limited to Web Definer. The operations of end user service providing access to Web Definer will be described in further detail below. In addition the individual Definer modules include tools for different aspects of creating a complete web site that may be published on the World Wide Web. Therefore different personnel with specific expertise such as graphic designers business analyst etc. may collaborate using the modules in completing the web site. Consequently the separate URLs to each of the modules may require specified usernames and passwords for access thereto similar to initial welcome page shown in .

The interface features and operations of the individual Definer modules will now be described in detail.

Site Definer link directs terminal to a Site Definer page shown in that provides an interface to the Site Definer module for creating a site template including its structure of template web pages.

Site Definer is a design module that may include a plurality of predefined site definitions or templates also known as Industry Solutions which are categorized by specific business type or Specific Industry Solution SIS which in turn are organized by industry or General Industry Solutions GIS . These SIS s or templates comprise generic structures content and embedded applications for generating a web site template to be customized by an end user using the Web Definer.

For example a user selects a site definition for generating the initial content of a template web site by selecting an industry corresponding to a GIS and a specific business corresponding to an SIS respectively. When a new user is created a new template web site is created and linked to the newly created user. The SIS site definition corresponding to the specific business type selected by the new user is retrieved from Site Definer and copied into the new template web site which the user may edit using the Web Definer to create a custom web site.

The Site Definer interface may also be used to generate a modular content pages or sections of pages with text and graphics that allow users to create a Web page quickly by answering a series of questions b questions that allow users to decide which modules that are being built that will be included in the site they are creating c placeholders that will insert information globally throughout a site. For example by including a CompanyName placeholder on several pages a user s business name will appear on these pages automatically when he or she registers with the provider of the Definer service at server d on line stores for purchasing products on a site and e on line forms that allow customers to send their questions and comments about products and services offered on a site. The Site Definer also provides for testing a created template.

In addition to creating a new site template by copying an existing template a new site template may be independently created in accordance with the present invention.

As illustrated by a Create a site section of Site Definer page includes a Select Your Industry Type drop down menu which provides for selecting the industry category under which a site template is to be created. The name for the new site template is entered at a Site Name SIS text box . After Create button is clicked terminal is directed to a site template creation split screen as shown in . depicts site template creation screen for creating and editing a new site template. On the left is a site map that lists the pages included in the site the right side includes a site display area . A blank Home page is initially generated and displayed in site map . The contents of blank Home page are displayed in display area . As shown in a command menu appears with a variety of commands when Home page is clicked. The commands which will be described in further detail include Add Page for adding a page to the site template Details for defining the attributes of a page such as search engine keywords page title emphasis button text name and questions users answer when they create sites according to the site template in the Web Definer Content for displaying the layout the placement of text and graphics of a page Questions for managing questions that users answer while creating their sites according to the site template in the Web Definer and Paste for placing a cut page to a selected location in the site map hierarchy.

It is noted that when new pages are added to a site template additional commands for rearranging the pages such as Rename Delete Move Up Move Down and Cut become available. These commands are not included in the menu for Home page because the name and position of Home page always remains the same.

A preview of the site template as would be displayed on the Internet can be displayed by clicking a Test link in the upper right corner of the screen. Details of the preview function will be described in further detail below.

The Add Page command adds a new page under the selected page in the hierarchy of site map i.e. the new page branches from the selected page. By clicking the page designation above where the new page is to be added and selecting the Add Page command from the pop up menu an Add Page dialog box as shown in is displayed in display area . A Page Name text box is provided for entering a name for the new page to be added and a Based on Page drop down menu provides for selecting a page format from previously stored template pages. The format from the template selected at menu is copied into the new page. The new page appears in the hierarchy of site map after OK button is clicked.

The Details command provides for defining default values for attributes that are displayed to an end user who is using the Web Definer to create a new web site according to a site template.

The Content command provides for changing the content text and graphics of a page in the site template. The existing content for the selected page is loaded and displayed in display area in the predetermined format as shown in . For a new page a blank page is displayed in display area .

As illustrated in and icons are positioned in various locations throughout the page for activating pop menus for a variety of commands for adding and changing the content of the selected page.

As shown in the commands in pop up menu which is displayed when an icon or an existing component is clicked provide for editing an existing component which include Edit Component for changing the attributes of the selected component Cut Component for moving a component from the selected page to a Clipboard not shown Copy Component for copying a component to the Clipboard and Delete Component for removing a component from the page. Correspondingly a Paste Component command from a pop up menu shown in displayed when an icon is clicked provides for placing a component from the Clipboard to the location of the selected icon as will be described below.

A new text component may be added to any location on a template page by clicking an icon next to the area where the text component is to be inserted and selecting the insert text command in pop up menu . Insert text dialog box as shown in appears upon such selection wherein the contents of the new text component may be entered. Formatting feature toolbar provides various text formatting functions. New text entered into text area is inserted into a page upon clicking OK button . It is noted that text generated by other word processing programs such as Microsoft Word or WordPerfect may be inserted into a page as a new text component by copying or cutting a portion of the text from the file thereunder and pasting said text into text area .

When an image in display area is selected an Edit Image dialog box as shown in is displayed. Edit Image dialog box is also displayed when the Edit Component command as illustrated in is selected for a graphic component instead of a text component as shown in . As shown in Edit Image dialogue box provides various features for editing and changing the characteristics of an image component. A General Image Library button when clicked causes a Choose Image dialog box to be displayed for displaying a catalog of pictures that may be inserted to the selected location of the page template. A Source text box displays and provides for the entry of the path name of a selected image. The Vertical Padding text box provides for the entry of an amount of space between the top and bottom of the graphic component and its adjacent components on a page template. Correspondingly a Horizontal Padding text box provides for the entry of an amount of space between the left and right sides of the graphic component and its adjacent components on a page template. A Break After check box provides for the selection of whether the line break is placed between the graphic component and the subsequent component. In other words if Break After check box is checked the selected graphic component is placed directly above the subsequent component. If however box is not checked then the selected graphic component is placed side by side with a subsequent component. A Resize Image text box provides for changing the size of the graphic component. A number entered at text box represents a percentage of the size of the original image as saved in an image file. In other words as shown in the selected image component is 70 the size of the original image file. A line text to image drop down menu provides for selecting whether to line up a text component to the right or left edge of the selected graphic component.

As described before Background Color button provides for the selection of the background color of the table component. Color Palette dialog box as shown in is displayed if button is clicked. Color Slider bar provides for selecting a color from a color pallete. Shade Selection area provides for selecting a shade of the color selected using color bar . Display area displays the selected color and shade. A Restore Default button restores the selected color to the default setting. The selected background color is incorporated to the table component upon clicking on OK button . No changes are made to the table component if Cancel button is clicked.

A Name text box is provided for entering a name for a new product category. After a name is entered into text box and after Add Category box is clicked a new product category is added to the online store as shown in area of . A Name text box is provided for entering and editing the name of the product category as previously entered at text box . A Heading text box is provided for entering a heading for the product category to be displayed on the online store. An Upload Image button provides for uploading an image to be displayed on the online store for the product category. A Clear button provides for removing an uploaded image.

Upon entering a product name into Name text box and clicking Add Product button a new product is added to the product category as shown in area of . A Name text box is provided for entering and editing the name of the product as previously entered at text box . A Heading text box is provided for entering a heading for the product to be displayed on the online store. A Price entry box is provided for entering a unit price for the product. A Hide Product check box allows for selecting whether the product is to be hidden from display on the on line store. A Sale Price entry box is provided for entering a sale price which would be the effective unit price for the product when On Sale check box is checked. A Code text box is provided for entering a product code for the product and a Description text box is provided for entering a text description of the product. Upload image buttons provide for uploading at least one image of the product for display on the on line store. The aforementioned details and settings of the product is saved by clicking Save button .

Operations for designing and maintaining questions to be included in a web site template for generating new web sites will now be described in detail. In accordance with the invention there are five types of questions. Include page questions are questions that prompt end users on whether a certain page from the template is to be included in the generated web site. Content questions are questions that inquire end users whether a specific section of content in one or more pages in the template is to be included in the generated web site. Text questions are questions that prompt users to provide short answers therefor wherein such answers are to be included in the generated web site. Text area questions are questions that require longer answers from users wherein set answers are to be included to the generated web site. Finally drop down questions are questions that require users to choose an answer from a custom drop down list.

Layout Definer creates tables for the various pages in layouts of the template web site. These tables are in a meta data format so that they may be selected and or edited using the Web Definer to suit a custom web site. The meta data format will be described in further detail below.

Framework Definer provides various layout variations for a web site. Framework Definer separates the userspace and framework to optimize a flexible solution for developing creative web site designs. The framework of the designs is maintained in various HTML table layouts. A framework is made up of components that define where one or more of a plurality of images from an image set and where a content piece should be located in a web page layout. An image set defined by Image Definer described below contains images which are organized in an ordered tree of categories such horizontal vertical background etc. As will be described below Image Definer provides for defining additional image sets and categories of images.

A framework generated by Framework Definer defines the placement of each component of a web page. Content components of a site definition generated by Site Definer are placed according to the framework.

Functionally Framework Definer provides for capturing and storing details of a web site thus enabling a user to quickly develop a unique table layout to develop image sets therefor. Typically Layout Graphics for a web site include Header Footer Background and User Editable Content Space. Navigation Bar image data usually includes the image order the number of navigational images the navigational level first second third level navigation etc . These parameters may be set and adjusted using Framework Definer.

Referring back to Framework Definer link directs client terminal to a Framework Definer page. For a first time user a tutorial pop up provides a wizard style introduction. An experienced user may directly select one of the menu options Specify Framework provides Framework Definer interface for specifying each layout object Save exports a framework to be saved in a framework library and generates a thumbnail view of the framework for the library display Previous Menu Exit and Help small pop up window with tutorial type help with description of each button action.

To create a new Framework the user clicks on a red arrow in an edit area for a framework template and selects insert table. The user sets the attributes for the table layout sets the table layout width to be fixed pixels or percentages sets the table height in pixels or percentages specifies the layout options Header title horizontal navigation vertical navigation bottom navigation userspace and filler space.

A user may Save the Framework to a Framework Library which is located at a content data store and includes a collection of all created frameworks without an Image Brief or Transfer Framework to transfer the Image Brief to Project Manager to co ordinate delivery to Image Definer. The operation of Image Definer for specifying images on a framework will be described in further detail below.

Project Manager adds a created framework to the Framework Library to enable a user to select an appropriate framework to fit their web site specification. List of modules the Framework Definer is authorized to use. Selecting the program leads the user to the Menu List for that module. A list of tasks allocated to this user by the Project Manager with the links to the correct module to perform this task. The Task List also includes Edit edit existing Site Create create new Site using Definer with the correct task selected.

In the above mentioned Framework Library the number of navigational links and levels will determine the available Frameworks. The Project Manager co ordinates the delivery of the Image Brief to Image Definer.

Image Definer allows for the selection and maintenance of various images on a web site. Image Definer contains a plurality of collections of image sets created by graphic designers that are matched with specific framework layouts and are designed by theme type. Each of the plurality of image sets is developed including related images. A minimum of 5 image sets are defined for a theme thus allowing for a minimum of 5 frameworks for each theme. The Image Definer is provided with an image brief request by the Project Manager which includes a requested theme and the quantity of images needed for the web site.

An image set is randomly selected from a requested theme and the images in the image set are broken down into separate categories. For each category the images are broken down into variations. Image Definer replaces the image set of the template web site with the uploaded image set after selection and rescales the uploaded image set to conform to the framework to which it is applied i.e. the framework of the template web site. Similar to the predefined image sets the uploaded images may be re colored in the Web Definer.

When displaying a page in the web site all images in a particular selected variation are retrieved and rendered. For a navigation object component such as a navigation bar navigation information generated for the page is used to determine how many actual images need to be rendered to form the component. Likewise the text for each component image can be rendered instantaneously. Thus the image and text rendering is based on navigation information for content the structure of the content data and the variation information for the look.

Image Definer also provides an interface for defining a new set of images for a framework. This new image set is constructed by adding images for every single category contained in the framework. And as part of the Image Definer interface the user e.g. a graphic designer is prompted to upload images. Using the Image Definer interface the user is able to ensure that the uploaded image and all its variations fit properly no matter where they appear on a web page.

Definer also includes an image designer as an internal design tool that allows a designer to upload images and designs and conform them to the Definer environment e.g. designate them to categories within a framework and modify them to conform to the requirements of the categories. As will be described in further detail below Image Definer prompts a user designer to choose a framework whereupon a blank screen and a list of categories are presented. The user designer then chooses one of the categories to work on and can upload an image into the category.

As shown in Image Definer screen comprises a From Framework drop down selection menu an Existing Image Set Name text box a Copy button a New Image Set Name text box an Add New Image Set button and an image set display area .

Image set display area includes a Framework selection drop down menu for selecting a web page template framework as created using Framework Definer and displaying existing image sets stored thereunder for example corporate .

 From Framework menu provides for selecting a framework and retrieving an existing image set stored thereunder by entering the name thereof in text box . The image set selected using menu and text box is copied as a new image set for the framework selected at drop down menu upon clicking Copy button .

 New Image Set Name text box is provided for entering a name for a new image set to be created for the framework selected at drop down menu by clicking Add New Image Set button .

The image sets stored under the framework selected at drop down menu are displayed in image set display area with Edit buttons and Delete buttons . A Save button is also provided for each non empty image set for example corporate . Delete buttons provide for deleting an image set and Save button provides for saving the contents of image set corporate . Edit buttons direct client terminal to Image Definer Editor screen as shown in for editing a corresponding image set.

As shown in Image Definer Editor screen comprises a WYSIWYG Panel area for displaying a combination of images from an image set on a framework as a complete Web page. A Category drop down menu provides for switching between the Home page and the remaining pages of an image set and an Image Category drop down menu provides for selecting an image category such as Background Header Horizontal Title Vertical and Footer. A Category Display window not shown displays the available image sets for a selected Image Category. An image set selected in the Category Display window is displayed in WYSIWYG Panel area . In addition an Image Type may be entered for each image set at the Category Display window for specifying whether the images for the Home page and the remaining pages in the image set are the same. By clicking on the Image Type text a pop up menu not shown comprising the options Delete this set Upload to this set and split into specific is displayed. An Upload to this category button is provided for uploading the image set on display in panel area to the category selected at menus and . A Browse button prompts the display of a menu not shown for browsing the local storage media at client terminal for images stored therein. An Upload button is provided for uploading the image selected using the menu prompted by clicking Browse button or entered at entry box . The uploaded image is displayed in a display panel . If display panel is selected the image therein is displayed in WYSIWYG Panel area .

 Set Base Color entry boxes and Set Color button provide for entering the Red Green Blue RGB base color of the selected image. An Allow Color to Cell check box provides for designating whether a base color is set in the table cell comprising the selected image. An Align in Cell drop down selection menu provides for selecting the alignment Default Left Right Center of the selected image in the table cell. A Show Always check box provides for designating whether the selected image is always displayed. A No Text or Link check box provides for designating whether or not text or a link is to be applied to the selected image. A Repeat Image check box provides for designating whether the selected image is to be repeated.

An Enter Text text entry box is provided for entering text that is to be applied to the selected image. An Effects drop down selection menu provides for selecting an effect for example Drop Shadow to be applied to the text entered in box for display with the selected image. A Vertical alignment drop down selection menu and entry box provides for designating the vertical alignment of the text entered in box to the selected image when displayed. Similarly a Horizontal alignment drop down selection menu and entry box provides for designating the vertical alignment of the text entered in box to the selected image when displayed. A Default Font drop down selection menu provides for selecting the default font for displaying the text entered in box . A Default Font Size drop down selection menu and entry box provide for designating the default font size for displaying the text entered in box . Default Text Color entry boxes and Set Color button provide for entering the RGB color for displaying the text entered in box . W and B buttons provide for designating the text color to be white and black respectively. The designations of Rollover Text Color and Rollover Image Color are done in the same fashion as for Default Text Color which will not be described again. A Preview This Image button provides for previewing the selected image and entered text as specified using Edit Image Attributes menu .

The above described text rendering system text options under Image Definer provides say a Graphic Designer the tools that are both flexible and easy to use when rendering text onto high quality professional images. The options that are available as mentioned above will now be described in further detail.

A Graphics Designer may set an effect for the text on an image the menu options for setting such effect include drop shadow select color of drop shadow select by pull down list the blur type set the X and Y offset of effect in pixels enter the Transparency level in percentages embossed text set the X and Y offset of effect and apply effect.

A Graphic Designer may also preset a number of settings to be applied to a blank image before entering text including Head Length in pixels Body Length in pixels Tail Length in pixels and RGB base color of image.

A user may set the text position on the image including horizontal justification on left center and right vertical justification on top middle and bottom and offsets on vertical in pixels and horizontal in pixels .

A user may enter the text to render onto an image by entering text in a text entry box as described above whereby entry of multiple lines of text is supported.

A user may apply customize text characteristics to an image as described above which include font specifications pull down list of Font Type color selection for Text Color Red Green Blue entry boxes to fine tune color or allow a designer to enter their color value if known text effects such as anti aliased Text check box. The anti aliased option allows a user to minimize the pixel contrast at the edges of the text. As a result thereof the edges of the text appear smooth and blend into the background.

After finishing with the text rendering a designer may save multiple images as a batch. A batch file may contain phrases to apply to an image i.e. image text and image name. Additional options include Load a Batch File Select a text.txt file that contains the batch information and Choose a Destination Directory Select the directory the new images are to be stored.

The Definer Project Manager allows a registered user to facilitate the delivery of a successful vertical market solution. The Project Manager co ordinates a number of Definer products including Site Definer Framework Definer Framework Library Graphic Designer and Content Definer.

Once a user enters the Project Manager a list of projects is displayed at client terminal with the following hierarchy 

By selecting a project the user client terminal is directed to the Task List Status for that module with a list of tasks allocated to this user by the Project Manager including the links to the correct module to perform this task.

The introduction screen of the Project Manager displays a menu with the Definer modules responsible for a selected project including Site Definer Framework Definer Framework Library Graphic Designer and Content Definer. If one of these modules is selected the user is provided with the work in progress and the following project management options relating to the selected Definer module.

The user may select one of the following options italicized if either the Site Definer or Framework Definer is selected at the introduction screen 

If the Framework Library is selected the user may view the stored frameworks or add new frameworks. In one embodiment the user may be directed to the Framework Definer interface for viewing or adding frameworks.

The Content Definer allows a registered user to detail content for a vertical market solution SIS or web site template. At an introduction screen a list of the modules that cooperate with the Content Definer under the Project Manager is provided to the user.

By selecting a module the user client terminal is directed to the to the Task List for that module and a list of tasks allocated to this user by the Project Manager with the links to the correct module to perform this task. The Task List also includes 

A Default Framework is displayed in a WYSIWYG Workspace similar to the Site Definer interface with a site map preview of the navigation page links of the web site specified by the Site Definer.

By clicking on a page link from the site map preview the page is displayed in the WYSIWYG Workspace. The Content Definer inserts pre defined Complex Components directly into the Content areas of the page including Text with tables Text with photo s FAQ s Price List E Mail form and Hit Counter. The Content Definer may insert tables into the Content area otherwise the editing level is the same as an end user using Web Definer. When inserting industry specific text either by clicking on existing text or inserting new text the Content Definer specifies the Quick Start components which populates information within the users web site. The populated information specified by the Content Definer will generate the industry specific form to be entered by the end user as part of the registration of a Definer account.

The Content Definer also provides a menu for Save Project Exit Project Previous Menu Project Manager and Help. A Tools Menu section is also provided for previewing a thumbnail of each of the available Frameworks that fit the site definition. By clicking on a thumbnail a preview of the selected Framework is displayed as the Content area in the WYSIWYG Workspace.

It is noted that if Content Definer modifies the Content area for the selected Framework those change only effect that Framework.

The Definer Graphics Library allows the End User to insert multiple images from a clip art library. The cataloging of these images is by the following 

The Definer Category Image Library is where the specific vertical market and theme images for a template are stored. The Project Manager has access to the category to approve and check availability of images. The Image Definer also has access to the category for reference.

The Definer Framework Library is designed to allow Project Manager Image Definer Framework Definer and Web Definer to manage and co ordinate Frameworks.

The Framework Definer develops frameworks that are submitted to the Definer Framework Library. The Project Manager manages the number of complimenting images and number of Framework variations available to the Image Definer and Web Definer.

The three interconnected modules Site Definer Section Definer and Layout Definer provide the business market with the ability to produce top grade content rich web sites with unique end user determined designs. From a single participant an industry expert for example to a group of any size an entire vertical market this product trio is essentially a publishing tool that enables the user s to create and present industry specific content. Among the many various ways these easily accessible devices extend user capabilities are clear logically cross referenced site maps User specified navigation indicators and complete customization and fast update procedures. Prospective participants span the full spectrum of business constituencies sponsors software developers industry experts and vertical industry groups.

Another segment of the Definer back end product suite is a graphic design platform two components Image Definer and Framework Definer. Designers may use Image Definer to build core multi dimensional graphics for subsequent manipulation and second generation usage. The Framework Definer may be employed to design layouts that suit specific image sets.

Thus the Definer back end product suite may be used to design a targeted publishing marketing web site that is hosted using the Web Definer which will be described in detail below that provides the tools for building and maintaining web sites to users and or businesses of the targeted category. For example a designer may integrate new suggested content navigation styles colors art etc. into a targeted publishing marketing web site where new users of the targeted category may create new web sites by choosing from the suggested content navigation styles colors art etc. provided by the designer. The web site categories have been described as GISs and SISs in the illustrative embodiment thus far. However a designer may use the Definer back end product suite to redefine the categorization e.g. fiction writers as an equivalent of a GIS and mystery writers horror writers romance writers etc. as equivalents of individual SISs under fiction writers GIS .

With a collection of site templates for a wide range of industries and businesses an end user at client terminal may construct and publish a complete web site using the Web Definer.

Referring back to Web Definer link if selected directs client terminal to the Web Definer module for creating and publishing a web site. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the Web Definer module is made available to general end users for creating web sites without access to the remainder of the Definer modules. According to this embodiment the URL identifying the Web Definer software at server is made available to such end users whereby they e.g. client terminal are directed to a welcome page for the Web Definer separate from page . The operation of Web Definer as used by such an end user will now be described.

For existing members already subscribed to the services provided by server text entry spaces and are provided for entering a previously defined member name and corresponding password respectively. Server authenticates the entered information after a click on ok button . If the information from spaces and correspond to a valid previously defined existing member then client terminal is directed to a web page comprising services and links designed for the existing member as will be described in detail below.

If a user has not previously registered with server as noted above link directs client terminal to new member page so that the new user may register as illustrated by .

As shown in new member page comprises a plurality of text entry spaces and for entering information regarding the business and basic account information of the new user at client terminal . Spaces and are provided for entering a user name a password and password username reminder Question and Answer to create an end user account for Web Definer. Spaces and are provided for the entry of the user s E mail address and business name to be registered with server .

After all the information has been entered the user at client terminal may click button whereupon the information is registered with server . According to the invention at least one business category selection page shown in is transmitted from server to be displayed on client terminal for selecting the general industry and a specific kind of business within the industry of the end user s business. The selection is displayed in area .

After the correct business type has been selected the end user may click a join button which directs client terminal to an introduction page as shown in for describing the various design and on line help features offered by the Web Definer interface for web site generation. It is appreciated that a user may be registered automatically whereby user information is retrieved from a database.

In accordance with the illustrative embodiment of the invention after registration of the information submitted by the user in box server generates a web site with a unique structure that is generally structured to correspond to the registered industry business and company information. For example the web site may be generated in accordance with a site template that is defined using the Site Definer for an SIS selected by an end user at client terminal which is under a selected GIS . It is noted that a site template defined using the Site Definer may include a number of variations such as images within an image set navigation models themes colors etc. These variations may be programmed as complementary sets using the Definer suite e.g. Image Definer for defining complementary image sets . A web site may be generated according to the site template based on any random pseudo random or non deterministic algorithm to yield a particular combination of such variations. Therefore any two users having identical profiles preferences SIS s etc. would have a very Small chance of receiving the same generated web site.

A generated web site one page of which is displayed in with its web page structure is assigned to the user at client terminal and is displayed as a template web site for the user s review and modification. The Web Definer interface of the invention and its various design edit and modification features are presented in a plurality of feature web pages. These feature web pages each include a specific interface that is displayed with the template web site to allow the user to make desired edits modifications additions etc. to the displayed template web site. The overall control for accessing these various feature web pages is provided in a Web Definer control bar at the top of each feature web page. Advantageously the user at client terminal may jump from one feature web page to another instantaneously in order to access the corresponding desired design features. Each feature web page accessible through the Web Definer interface and the corresponding design features available at each feature web page will now be described in detail.

As illustrated in template web site area displays the template web site generated by server according to the information previously provided by the user in pages and . Template web site area allows the user at client terminal to preview the template web site as it would appear on any client terminal as if it were published to Internet . As shown by the template home page of the template web site is displayed in area by default. Much like welcome page this template home page would be the initial page that greets a user at a client terminal if the template web site were published on Internet .

In accordance with the invention any changes edits modifications deletions or additions to the template web site via the tools and features presented at the various feature web pages including Design page are immediately incorporated to the template web site at server and displayed at template web site area . Thus the user at client terminal can instantly review such changes as they would appear on Internet instantly. It is appreciated that the framework or look and feel of a web site should be consistent throughout its entire structure of web pages. Thus in accordance with the invention any changes made via the interface presented on Design page to the template home web page displayed in area are automatically incorporated to the entire structure of template web pages. Advantageously a user is not required to make corresponding changes to each template web page.

Design tool area comprises a plurality of design tools specific to Design page that are available to the user. A color bar applet provides a spectrum of colors available for selection whereby the user may select a color scheme for the template web site by sliding an indicator to the desired color. A color box displays a sample of the selected color. By clicking a box the user may change the overall color scheme of the template web site to the selected color as shown in box . As will be described in further detail below server comprises software in accordance with the invention that automatically coordinates the color schemes of the template web site to fit the selected color. As mentioned before the color scheme of the template web site including all of the template web pages is changed according to the selected color and displayed in template web site area right away for the user s review.

A selection bar provides a plurality of choices for the layout of web site. A preview box displays a small preview of the selected layout at selection bar . This layout function provides the user with an easy tool for quickly viewing the arrangement of one or more buttons and links on the template web site according to the various predetermined arrangements that are available to a user. An apply button if selected changes the template web site in accordance with the selected layout. Again the new layout is applied to each template page of the template web site immediately and displayed in template web site area .

The design tools presented on Design page described thus far enable the user to change individual design aspects such as color scheme and layout of the template web site as displayed in the template web site area . A selection bar on the other hand provides a selection of overall themes in looks and feels or styles for the template web site. After the user clicks a Show More button server generates a completely new template web site in accordance with information entered by the user in pages and and the selected theme at selection bar . Advantageously a single access to server enables the presentation of a new look without any change to the content. Each change incorporates changes in various design attributes including color layout and image set. This newly generated template web site is then displayed in template web site area . To enable the user to select between multiple template web sites a plurality of buttons and and selection bar are provided. Buttons and allows the user to save multiple template web sites and to restore saved template web sites for display. Advantageously the user is able to save a collection of template web sites having different themes colors schemes or layouts. The user is further able to view his collection of web sites in comparison with one another and select one that is most suited for the user s business.

The design tools in area on Design page described thus far are tools for changing the overall appearance of the template web site displayed in area . Design page includes additional popup menus for changing individual components of the template web site. These popup menus appear when the user selects a specific component of the template web site displayed in area . For example a title bar may be selected by the user whereupon a popup menu would be displayed with various design options for the title on the displayed page.

Upper menu provides the user with selections for changing specific design aspects of the selected component and its background. In this illustrative embodiment the color of the selected component the text attribute of any text within the component and the color of the background set against the component may all be changed individually and independently of one another. For example the user may change the color of title bar by selecting Change color in upper menu . If the user selects to change the color of title bar or its background a separate window is displayed which provides the user with control of such changes. Similar changes to the other attributes can also be made through the selection of other choices from upper menu .

Referring once again to lower menu allows the user to alter the overall look and feel of the selected component or its background. Specifically the user may scroll between appearance variations of the selected component by clicking Show Next Variation or Show Previous Variation and its background by clicking Show Next Background Variation or Show Previous Background Variation from lower menu . As will be described in further detail server includes a plurality of variations for the appearance of each component that are complementary to the overall theme or look and feel of the template web site as selected and indicated by selection bar .

As mentioned before any look and feel changes made via the interface presented on Design page to the template web site displayed in area are automatically incorporated to the entire structure of template web pages. It is appreciated that such changes may be incorporated according to the hierarchy of the template web site wherein the changes are incorporated only to a selected web page and the web pages branching therefrom. For example a user may color each of the main branches of the template web site differently or have different variations of images in each of those branches. For instance if a user selects the Home page and changes the color the color of the entire site is changed. But if the user selects a lower level page such as the About Us page and changes the color only the color of the About Us page and the pages underneath it are changed.

The structure and content design of the template web pages according to the invention will now be described in detail.

Web site structure tree displays the structural hierarchy and interrelationship of the template web pages. Each page symbol rectangle on tree represents a template web page within the template web site structure. For example a top Home page represents the template home page on display in area of Design page . As illustrated by each branch stemming from home page ends at a template web page for example For Sale page which may further branch into additional template web pages etc. Some branch template web pages for example for sale page include a question mark. This question mark denotes that the template web page may be enabled or disabled by the user i.e. included or removed from the structure of template web pages. In other words if the template web site is published to Internet only the enabled template web pages would be included in the publication. It is noted that template home page is the root of the template web site and thus does not include a question mark i.e. it may not be disabled at Content page .

As mentioned before server automatically designs a structure of template web pages for the template web site pursuant to the information entered by the user in box . Tree displays the structure thus designed by server with different colors indicating the various enabled and disabled template web pages. For example an Employment page is displayed in a different color indicating that it is disabled. In accordance with the invention the user may manually enable or disable the template web pages bearing a question mark by clicking on any one of them. A popup menu is displayed when the user say clicks on for sale page wherein the user is presented with the choices of enabling or disabling selected page .

In addition to manually enabling and disabling the template web pages simplified design area includes a list of questions relating to the specific business entered by the user in box . Each of the questions in design area also pertains to the enabling and disabling of a template web page. Each question that is in bold type directly corresponds to the enabling and disabling of a particular template web page that bears a question mark in tree . The user may answer yes or no to these questions and the corresponding template web pages would be accordingly automatically enabled or disabled. For example a question in design area corresponds to a for sale page in tree . Hence if the user answers no to question page is automatically disabled. Some questions in bold type are grouped with additional questions in normal type to which the user may answer yes or no. According to the user s answers to these questions certain basic content in the corresponding template web page is enabled or disabled.

As with tree in a structure tree displays the structural hierarchy of the template web pages that have been enabled for the template web site. The user may edit any template web page within the structure by simply clicking on a page say a For Sale page in structure tree . A popup menu is displayed when such a selection is made. It is noted that web pages that have been selected to be included in the published web site are indicated with a check mark whereas web pages that have not been selected are indicated with a cross mark.

Returning now to a template web page to be edited is displayed in design area . For illustration purposes the template home page is on display in a design area for editing. The page displayed in area contains edit E button and insert I button buttons for each cell in table . For example edit button allows the user to edit the cell in a table that contains image and insert button allows the user to insert additional components to the cell. Likewise edit button and insert button allow the user to edit and insert additional components to the cell containing text component respectively. Components that may be inserted through insert buttons and include images tables online stores structured data page selectors e mail forms custom HTMLs and distinct web site components such as search buttons fortune cookie programs Frequently Asked Questions FAQs or marquee scrolling bars etc.

Edit buttons and allow the user to edit the cells that contain components and respectively. illustrate the Edit Table feature pages and for editing individual cells and an entire table such as a component respectively. As shown in a selected or highlighted cell may be edited to change its dimensional ratio background color vertical and horizontal alignments its contents may be cleared or cells may be inserted adjacent to it. The user may click on a button to edit the entire table containing the selected cell at which point client terminal is directed to a feature page . As shown by various characteristics such as the dimension alignment and background color etc. of the selected table e.g. component may be edited by the user.

With respect to the content components contained in the cells of table the user may edit such content by simply clicking on them while at Advanced Edit page . When the user clicks on text component a popup menu as illustrated by appears. A standard word processor program is loaded and displayed in a separate window to allow the user to edit the actual text content of component . On the other hand when the user clicks on an image component such as component client terminal is directed to an image edit feature page where the user is presented with a collection of design tools for editing the selected image e.g. component .

Image component may be resealed using an entry space . In addition the user may replace component with a new image file. An entry space and a button allow the user to specify an image file or browse client terminal for an image file to replace component . Buttons and direct client terminal to image libraries stored at server from which the user may retrieve and incorporate a stock image to component . illustrates a General Image Library page that provides access to a General Image Library stored at server after the user clicks on a button . As shown in the user may select a specific category or industry using a selection bar and a button . For example the user may select property and construction whereupon a collection of stock images under property and construction is displayed in an area . Illustratively the collection of images is displayed six images at one time and the user may browse through pages of the image collection by clicking one of buttons . To incorporate an image from the collection to component the user simply clicks on the image in area .

Returning now to the user may also render text within image component . In other words text may be superimposed onto the image of component where the attributes of the superimposed text such as font font size color and alignment and offset within the image is designed using tools .

It is noted that Advanced button in is selected reflecting the advanced edit features namely a plurality of table cell edit buttons and being provided to the user. A Basic editing page is shown in where Basic button is selected. As illustrated by the Basic editing page does not provide any table cell edit buttons. Instead the user is allowed to accept the dimensional layout and simply edit the content of the components of the template web page. In addition in the basic mode there are no pop ups but components are edited directly when clicked. In the advanced mode instead of automatically editing a selected component four main options edit cut copy and paste are presented.

As noted above every feature web page for providing web site design interface according to the invention includes the overall Web Definer control bar. Illustratively this Web Definer control bar is correspondingly incorporated in feature pages and as control bars and respectively. Advantageously the user may access any feature web page from any other feature web page simply by clicking a button on the Web Definer control bar.

If the user clicks on button from any feature web page e.g. pages and client terminal is directed to a subsequent feature page as if each feature page represents a step in a step by step process for creating a web site. For example client terminal is directed to page from page after an end user finishes editing the template web site and selects button at page . Illustratively Web Definer moves from left to right along buttons etc. In other words client terminal is initially directed to feature page corresponding to button and then to the features pages corresponding to buttons etc. respectively with each click on button . Help button if clicked directs client terminal to a help page where online help in using Web Definer is provided. depicts a sample help page . Exit button allows an end user to exit Web Definer.

After all the desired edits and modifications have been made the user may choose to preview the template web site without the design interfaces according to the invention. By clicking Preview button in Web Definer control bar the template web site is displayed at client terminal as it would appear if published to Internet . illustrates a template web site preview displayed by clicking button . It is noted that all design interfaces including Web Definer control bar is removed from the screen for this preview display.

After previewing the template web site and ensuring that it is satisfactory the user may click the Publish button on Web Definer control bar . illustrate a registration page where information on the user and the user s business is entered and registered with server . The user may also specify a preferred domain name in a space for publishing the template web site. As shown in the user must review the terms and conditions for publishing the template web site and so indicate in a box before the template web site can be published by clicking a button . A Clear Form button clears all of the entry spaces in so that the user may re enter the information.

Referring back to link directs client terminal to a Start Demo page where the above described features of the Web Definer is demonstrated on client terminal . illustrates a Start Demo page that is displayed on client terminal after link has been selected. As shown in Start Demo page comprises links through that correspond to links through of initial page . In addition page also comprises Join button that corresponds to button of initial page .

The Definer platform may be used to construct portal sites. In addition web sites created using Definer may add real time instant portal services immediately turning those sites into Portals. Instant Portal services may include Web based e mail Group and personal calendars Message boards Chat rooms and Special interest clubs

With reference to the architecture of a software system for implementing the Definer service in accordance with the invention will now be described. System is preferably constructed using object oriented programming with the primary architecture being split into three the Definer as described above an image server and external components . The Definer is provided using an edit store or local store and a data store . External components are web site components that are developed outside of the Definer environment using an SDK. The SDK for creating external components to be used with the Definer in accordance with the invention will be described in further detail below.

As shown in Edit store Image server and external components are designed to be able to exist on many machines thus making the system scalable. Accordingly communications between these entities may be accomplished using standard Internet type protocols such as HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP .

The Definer portion of system comprises principally edit store including a local store data store and a database not shown which may be a traditional relational database e.g. Oracle database . Edit store accommodates all of the Definer user interface functionality i.e. all of the editing logic the publishing process etc . Thus a majority of the application is within Edit store . Data store is a repository for content information and the relational database is used to store information on users sponsors accounting information etc.

In accordance with the invention a plurality of additional edit stores not shown may be connected to data store . These separate edit stores may run on separate machines e.g. general purpose computers that are in different physical geographical locations. Accordingly Remote Method Invocation RMI protocols may be used for the remote communications between edit store and data store . For increased compatibility and flexibility the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA may be used. Thus system is scalable in that edit stores can be conveniently added to handle larger numbers of concurrent editing sessions on Definer. Furthermore multiple web servers may be deployed at various localities for each edit store which may serve a particular geographical region or community connected to a central data store. Edit store also employs aggressive caching implemented near its service customers for example at web server for improved performance. Data store synchronizes the content information between the different edit stores. For example if a user changes geographic location between editing sessions where such sessions are handled by different edit stores data store provides a distributed environment that can pass information around from one point to the other. This arrangement allows for a faster and more responsive Definer interface. Thus data store basically acts as a central repository for information and is a centralization point for all of the data including content for generating web sites and templates using Definer.

Referring back to the illustrative embodiment of web server also interfaces with image server that processes all images used for Definer presentation or features. As described extensively above Definer provides numerous image manipulation features such as recoloring rendering text filtering etc. for site template and web site generation e.g. Site Definer and Web Definer . Image server returns images to the generated sites or templates. In Definer images are created in real time and so the text on each of the images is actually rendered on demand. Image server provides for such rendering. Image server can also re color images change a blue color to red and put drop shadows and various other effects onto an image. Its primary function is to place text on images to generate navigation images. Therefore image server dedicated for processing these manipulations improves the efficiency of system . Furthermore real time processing of the image manipulations using image server allows for more spontaneous WYSIWYG editing while dispensing with the need for storing variations manipulated versions of an image.

System also includes a library of external components which are web site components developed outside of the Definer environment using an SDK not shown . External components may be developed by and exchanged among users. As discussed above Definer provides for easy incorporation of these components to a generated web site or template. The SDK and exchange mechanism for external components in accordance with the invention will be described in further detail below.

As shown in all of the Definer software components reside behind web server . Web server residing in server shown in sets a user connection through Internet and interprets command requests therefrom. Accordingly server routes an image server request to image server and a request to Definer to edit store .

As shown in edit store comprises a Web Server Interface WSI on the front end for communicating with web server . Web server is connected to a Servlet Application Program Interface API not shown which is connected to a runtime server not shown which in turn is connected to WSI . The servlet API is an API for interfacing web servers for example web server .

With reference to the Definer process is divided into a series of stages or levels. The first level is the runtime server. The runtime server handles session management where once the user has logged in information about that user is stored so that the user need not log in again. HTTP used for the web is a stateless protocol. Other than cookies there is no way to tell one request coming in from another. Thus session management is used to make such a determination. The runtime server also handles user authentication and registration. In addition the runtime server controls the members control console MCC and the sponsors control console SCC which are two parts of the user interface that handle user information such as change of password change of telephone number etc. The runtime server is fairly independent from Definer because it provides different types of services than the core Definer services oriented towards editing web pages and templates. The runtime server is oriented towards providing a session based environment. The runtime server may also be used for some instances of web page delivery. For dynamic content such as a shopping cart in a static web page the runtime server resides in front of the web page and provides the runtime support to facilitate the dynamic content. A shopping cart in accordance with the invention will be described in further detail below.

Once a request passes through the runtime server it is passed to WSI . WSI essentially re implements parts of the interface to improve its usability. WSI retrieves the request places it into conforming format and then forwards it to a Manager . Manager restores the user context what site and page a user is working then examines the request and extracts the commands the user wishes to execute. This command is split into two parts Process and View. Every command that is sent to Definer may consist of these two parts.

Process is a requested action such as deleting a block of text or inserting a component. View generates the response. So if a user wishes to delete a piece of text the user would invoke delete text in the user s process specification and edit page in the user s view specification. Manager recognizes the delete text command retrieves all the arguments that would be relevant to deleting the requested piece of text deletes the text from the page and returns the edited page in accordance with the view process. The page is edited and a view of the edited page is provided to the user. This new page does not include the piece of deleted text. Thus system according to the invention executes the Process then executes the View procedure and returns a response to the user.

All pages of the Definer interface in accordance with the invention are classed according to two methods coincidentally one called process and the other called view. This classification allows for the implementation of the user interface Resultpage . Resultpage is of an abstract class defining the basis of classes that generate user interfaces and including parameterized content. For example when the user inserts an image or uploads an image what is seen is handled by a class that is an extension of Resultpage .

In summary a request enters through web server passes to the runtime server through WSI to Manager . Manager re establishes the user context splits the request up into its process and its view methods then loads the relevant Resultpage for the process method and executes the process method thereon. Manager then takes the generated response identifies and executes the proper view method and then generates the response in HTML that is then passed back up through to the user. Thus manager class creates and restores the user context performs user authentication directs execution of user commands and provides global re write facilities. To this end the Manager class may include a number of objects user context not shown command execute and HTML re write. The User Context performs user authentication manages cookies used to identify user login and recovers context for user interface facilities such as maintaining a cut and paste clipboard. The Command Execution determines from user request the command to be executed and performs the Process and View methods. The HTML Re write handles self referential URLs reference to Image server and reference to External Applications.

The user interface provided by Manager will now be described in further detail with reference to the data structure of edit store illustrated in .

Each page of the Definer that the user sees at say client terminal is represented in Definer as an Ordered tree . The Ordered Tree Class is a storage structure of metadata consists of an ordered list of Components encapsulating the container relationships amongst various elements tags of the page. It is similar to Document Object Model DOM but is enhanced to provide more effective user interface. Each component generates HTML for each of the five modes that system uses. These five modes are View Edit Publish Edit Component and Insert Component. The Component class is also used to implement interface to external components. As each Ordered Tree is parsed the relevant mode is used to create the HTML for that Component. The HTML is collected to generate the web page that is passed back and appears on the user s browser at e.g. client terminal . Cache is implemented to cache access to the Ordered Trees. Datastorefile provides storage implementation for Data store independent of Edit store . Localstorefile provides implementation of serialization of data for edit store and aggressive disk and memory caching. The method for storing and retrieving the Ordered Trees is implemented under this operation.

As illustrated by Definer uses four classes to provide the services that are required to store and retrieve Ordered Trees. These four classes are Account manager Site manager Page manager and Httpservicecontext . Account manager handles the collection of users sites. It provides functionality to manage users. Site Manager manages each user s site. It provides for the creation and deletion of sites and listing the pages that belong to a site. Page manager provides for the creation and deletion of pages. It also provides the mechanisms to retrieve and save a user s page. Httpservicecontext provides facilities to determine the state information that is stored about the user. This information includes the user s cut and paste buffer. Each of these managers interface directly to an Editstorerequest . Editstorerequest provides the managing logic for the relationship between Edit store and Data store . It decides when information needs to be retrieved from data store and when information should be flushed to data store . It also provides interface for serialization and implementation of logic for locking mechanisms.

The Web Definer first constructs the structure of the template web site according to the site definition as displayed in area of . Referring once again to the Web Definer employs the view method file for each component of a web page to dynamically generate the HTML for the content to be displayed in template web site area . The employment of the edit method file enables a user to edit the content of each component e.g. the actual text of a component. The component edit method file allows a user to control the attributes of a component such as text font size alignment etc. illustrates text change window which is an illustrative embodiment of the user interface for the component edit method. When a user has completed editing and elects to publish a site the publish method is employed generates the HTML for the web page to be published and loads it onto a web server for hosting the published site.

The WYSIWYG editing of the template web site including the content and navigation of the site is possible because these features are handled dynamically by the Web Definer using the ordered tree data structure. In other words each page is regenerated according to the ordered tree corresponding to the template web site every time the site is edited. As such a user can instantaneously review any changes to the template web site. In any known prior art system changes to a web site e.g. adding a page requires modifying all of the pages of the web site to reflect such changes. With the Definer system the user is given a simple mechanism of choosing a navigation model wherein changes to the navigation of a web site is automatically incorporated to all relevant web pages.

As stated above a published web site may include a shopping cart which may be an applet. In accordance with the invention the applet for the shopping cart goes through a firewall which normally blocks generic applets.

There are both advantages and disadvantages to using an applet as a shopping cart. One of the many advantages is of course once the applet loads the shopping experience for the end user is much quicker. The applet also always loads progressively so instead of loading the entire applet at once it knows what functions the user will want to use straightaway and loads them first and while they re actually using it other classes of the applet are being uploaded even while the user is unaware of it. The applet is unlimited in the amount of product someone can sell.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention web sites created and published using Definer may be provided with referrals to one another or to other non Definer web sites under the Universal Content Manager.

It is noted that validation process could be done off line and driven via Emails telling a site builder when to return and continue the process.

At step . standard referral companies that pay the web site owner and the host of Definer a referral fee are added to the list. An email may be sent to the web site owner or builder to return and finish the referral page or the referral page may be completed as the web site is created and published using Definer all at once. Sites of owners who wish to be included may also be added to the list of referral pages for a fee. Other natural referral sites that like minds find to suit the business type may also be added to the list. As shown by step . paying referral companies from a Data Store are added to the referral list.

At step . a list of partners with a check box to request referral inclusions is forwarded to the web site owner or builder. A page is presented to the site owner builder showing the full collection of the possible sites to be included as referral sites with check boxes for selecting each of the companies that the owner builder wishes to include on the referral page. The referred to sites that are created using Definer and paid sites already have the company details and descriptions filled out and cannot be changed. The non Definer sites have this area filled with the information that are validated from the SIC code look up but can be changed by the site owner builder. Links to the referred to sites on a referral page may include a small section stating why a customer should go to referred to site or use this company if they are not on line yet we could have a standard for this but have the ability for the site builder to change it.

At step . it is determined whether a referred to site is a Definer created site. In accordance with the invention there is special processing for a Definer created web site when it is being referred to. This processing provides the feeling of being part of the Definer network and more control over the business and Internet referrals of the site. It may also provide incentive for the site owners to return to their sites on regular intervals to continue working on them.

If the referred to site is a Definer created site process proceeds to step . where a notification is sent to the referred to site owner asking whether to include their site on the referral list. A notification is sent to the Definer created site owner that another site owner wishes to refer to them in their web page. This is an email that includes a link to a specific page for managing this process. This will go to the referral system page and hopefully act as an impedance on adding further referrals.

At step . the referred to site owner is provided with information on the referring site and asked whether the referral is acceptable . and whether to add a referral back in the referred to site . . A site owner receives an email informing that a Definer created site owner wishes to have them on their referral page. A link in the email directs them to their referral page manager and shows them the site that wants to refer to them it also asks them if they wish to refer back.

If the referred to site is not a Definer created site process proceeds to step . when a notification is sent to the referred to site informing that the Definer created web site is now referring to it and inviting the referred to site owner to register. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention details from the information received from the original referrer may be user to pre build a new web site for the referred to site owner a password would be included in the site to ensure security.

At step . it is determined whether the referred to site requests to have a referral back to the referring site added. If so then step . is performed for the referring site informing of the referral back. If not process proceeds to step . where the referring site is informed that a referral back was not elected.

At step . it is determined whether the referred to site agrees to having their site referred to. If not at step . the referring site is informed that the referral request was rejected.

If the owner of a non Definer referred to site chooses to register at step . or if the owner of a Definer referred to site agrees to the referral process proceeds to step . . At step . the referral information is processed so that a provisional referral page is prepared and the referring site is informed. At step . a page showing the referrals and their status is forwarded to the referring site and the referring site builder is allowed to edit the provisional referral page using the Definer interface. It is noted that the description of the referred to site on a referral page may be locked so that only the referred to site owner may change or edit its contents.

In conjunction with process at step . shown in process is performed for validating and classifying the actual referrals from the referring site builder. As illustrated in process receives a list of companies that have been entered as natural partners and return a list of validated companied classified into their SIC codes. It is noted that process could be done off line so it is run on a separate system at a separate time. Thus the list of referrals from process may be stored and all the data access to find the companies done off line. The referring site builder is sent an email stating that the system has found x companies that are ready for validation. This then acts as an impetus to get the referring site builder back to do more work on their site.

Process begins by processing . each company from the entered list is processed and retrieving . specific information for each company. Such information may include Company Name Address Phone number and Definer SIS code.

A list of all Definer sites is retrieved from a Data Store at step . and each company from the entered list is looked up in the retrieved Definer sites at step . . At step . it is determined whether an entered company owns a Definer site.

Concurrently at step . a repository of non Definer companies or an external service is queried and companies determined not to own Definer sites at step . are searched from the repository or external service at step . .

At step . it is determined if an exact match is found at step . . If a match is found in either step . or . process proceeds to step . where the company information is forwarded to the referring site owner for validation. At step . it is determined whether the company name and SIC code description are correct. If so process proceeds to step . where it is determined whether the valid company owns a Definer site.

If the company information is determined to be incorrect at step . and if the company name is determined to be valid at step . process proceeds to step . to preload the company data but leave SIC Code to be filled.

If the valid company owns a Definer site as determined at step . process proceeds to step . where the description of what the company does is extracted from the Data Store which is the same as that of step . . Next at step . the owner of the referring site is requested to provide a description of what this referred to company does and how it relates to its business.

If an exact match is not found for an entered company in steps . and . process proceeds to step . where it is determined whether any company names similar to that of the entered company were found. If so a list of choices of possible company names that are similar with SIC code descriptions is provided to the referring site owner as shown by step . . Next at step . the referring site owner is asked whether the intended referred to site partner company can be found from the list provided at step . .

If the referring site owner cannot find its partner at step . or similar names to the entered company cannot be found at step . and after company data has been preloaded at step . the data entered for the partner company is provided to the referring site owner as shown at step . . The site owner is also requested for details including SIC Code.

Once the company descriptions have been entered by the referring site owner at step . process proceeds to step . where the list of partner referrals is loaded into the Data Source at . .

In accordance with the invention an SDK a state of the art leading edge package is provided so that software developers may create external web server hosted applications that generate custom content for inclusion within a page of a Definer web site. The SDK allows developers to use the code that is at the heart of the Definer Application Programming Interface API giving them full access to the very foundations and frameworks of the unique Definer material.

These third party applications or components described thus far as external components denoted DXC hereinafter may be registered and stored in a database DXC Registry located on a central server such as Data Store described above. DXC Registry would contain references to the locations of all available DXC implementations.

A DXC produces HTML representations of DXC instances which are specific instances of a DXC embedded in a web page for both the Definer editing environment and the published run time environment. Definer submits HTTP requests to DXCs in response to user actions in providing a DXC interface.

A DXC interface is an entry point into the DXC implementation. The SDK specifies a number of DXC interfaces that DXCs should support. Each interface handles a specific type of request. An interface may be a URL and the same URL may be used to handle multiple interfaces. The simplest types of requests include requesting a DXC to return the HTML representation of a DXC instance. The HTML returned may vary depending on the type of user interface requested for example the edit interface versus the run time interface.

There are other DXC interfaces that support manipulating the properties of DXC instances although in many cases Definer s built in Property Page which is a data entry form that allows users to manipulate the properties of a DXC instance is sufficient for this purpose. A DXC may override the default Property Page by supplying the HTML for a custom Property Page. There is a specific DXC interface for this purpose which will be described in detail below.

When a DXC is registered with Definer an HTTP URL is recorded for each registered interface. These URLs point to the server side applications implementing each interface which may include anything that is accessible via HTTP for example a servlet a Computer Graphics Interface CGI script or even a static HTML page.

DXC interfaces may include Edit return the Edit Mode HTML for a DXC instance Preview return the Preview Mode HTML for a DXC instance Runtime return the Publish Mode HTML for a DXC instance Property Page return a custom. HTML form allowing users to enter configuration data for a DXC instance Edit Event manipulate the properties of a DXC instance and or perform some server side processing in response to a user event in Definer Runtime Event if a DXC produces dynamic results at runtime then runtime events are dispatched to this interface Preview Event mimic the behavior of the Runtime Event interface within a restricted Preview environment.

The Edit Mode allows Definer users to visually manipulate the DXCs on a page. The Preview Mode allows Definer users to preview pages in their site before publishing. The Publish Mode represents the run time version of a published Definer page.

Each DXC interface as shown in will now be described in detail by their corresponding categories as follows presentation interfaces event interfaces and property page interface.

Presentation Interfaces are responsible for generating and returning an HTML representation of a DXC instance. They do not modify the DXC instance in any way. The HTML returned by a Presentation Interface may or may not be a complete HTML page. Definer strips any page markup like or tags from the returned HTML to ensure it fits comfortably inside a host page. Presentation interfaces include Runtime Interface Preview Interface Edit Interface .

The Runtime Interface is responsible for generating the HTML for a DXC instance to be included in a published web site. Runtime interface is invoked during the site publication process. If the DXC is dynamic at runtime i.e. it supports runtime events then Runtime Interface is invoked after every runtime event as will be described below to refresh the DXC HTML within the page being viewed.

The Preview interface is responsible for generating the HTML representing a preview of the DXC within the Definer editing environment. This preview version should appear identical to the Runtime version on a client terminal. If no Preview Interface is registered for a DXC then Runtime Interface is used to generate the preview HTML. The main reason for registering a distinct Preview Interface is to generate different hyperlink targets for a preview mode where users preview a page before publication.

The Edit interface is responsible for generating the HTML to include in an editable Definer web page. The output appears similar to the Runtime and Preview HTML but may include additional links and controls to support editing the DXC properties. When in an edit mode for instance when a page containing a DXC is being edited using Web Definer as described above Definer automatically attaches a special hyperlink to each DXC in a page. A context menu appears when this hyperlink is activated allowing the user to perform standard editing functions such as deleting the DXC or accessing the DXC s property page. Thus if no Edit Interface is registered for a DXC then the Preview or Runtime interfaces will be used instead. Property Page editing is still possible through the standard edit menu of the DXC.

Event Interfaces are responsible for processing event messages. They return updated property values for Definer or the runtime engine to store against the target instance. The new property values are returned as header fields of the HTTP response. The names of the response header fields should match the corresponding property names including the dxc  prefix .

If an event is triggered by a Property Page submission then all form fields from the Property Page are included as additional parameters to the Request.

If an event is triggered by a callback then an additional parameter named dxc message is included in the request. This parameter contains details of the triggered event. Callbacks will be described in further detail below.

Apart from returning property updates via the HTTP response header Event Interfaces should not return any actual HTML content in the response. Any content returned is simply discarded.

The Runtime Event interface is invoked whenever a runtime callback is activated on a DXC being viewed in a published site. The properties of a DXC instance cannot be modified at run time so any property updates returned in the response from Runtime Event interface is not saved in any database. Instead the new property values are transferred into a hidden HTML form within the result page. Subsequent events triggered from within that result page use the latest property values from the hidden form in preference to the persistent properties of the DXC instance. Thus several site visitors may view the same DXC instance simultaneously and each visitor may individually modify the runtime properties of the DXC instance without affecting the other visitors. Each individual runtime version of a DXC instance is referred to as a DXC Image.

After every invocation of Runtime Event Interface Runtime interface is called to reconstruct the HTML for the DXC image.

The implementation of the Preview Event interface closely mimics the behavior of Runtime Event Interface . If there is no Preview Event Interface registered for a DXC then Runtime Event Interface used instead. Preview Event Interface is only required if the behavior of the DXC needs to be different in Preview mode as opposed to runtime.

After every invocation of Preview Event Interface Preview interface is called to reconstruct the HTML for the preview image.

The Edit Event interface is the only interface that can trigger persistent updates to the properties of a DXC instance. Edit Event interface is invoked in response to an Edit Mode callback or after a Property Page has been submitted. The details of the event are supplied in either the dxc message request parameter in the case of a callback or in a set of request parameters that correspond to the form fields from the Property Page.

The DXC is responsible for interpreting the event performing any appropriate server side processing and returning any property updates via header fields in the HTTP response. Definer saves all property updates returned by Edit Event interface . In the case of a Property Page event any fields from the Property Page form with field names corresponding to property names are automatically saved by Definer. There is no need for the DXC to return property updates from a Property Page event unless the DXC overrides or amends the form data for example the DXC may trim trailing spaces from the user supplied property values .

Despite the existence of Definer s generic property page for DXCs there are several reasons for developing a custom property page for a DXC. Some reasons may be 

The Property Page Interface may be implemented if the default property page is overridden. Property Page interface simply returns a set of pre filled HTML form fields with a desired layout. The tag or any Submit controls are not returned because Definer automatically constructs a Property Page skeleton including these elements. The HTML returned from Property Page Interface is simply inserted into the pre fabricated skeleton.

If the name of a target property is used as the name of the corresponding form field the form field is automatically transferred into DXC property values when the form is submitted. Definer automatically saves any fields it recognizes as properties unless overridden by Edit Event Interface .

However Property Page may not correspond directly with the properties defined for a DXC. For example the entire state of the DXC may be serialized as EXtensible Markup Language XML and stored in a single property. Rather than making the user edit the XML document directly a Property Page may be provided to allow the user to modify the individual elements of the XML structure. To achieve this Property Page Interface and Edit Event Interface are used. Form fields that do not correspond to property names are created using Property Page Interface . When the property page form is submitted Definer forwards all of the form data to Edit Event Interface which constructs the XML document from the form data and returns it as a property update in the header of its response.

As an example a pre existing web page with no configurable properties and no dynamic run time behavior may be registered as a DXC via a Definer DXC Registration web site. For this simple example only a Runtime interface needs to be specified. The pre existing web page may be made available for insertion into Definer web pages by simply registering a Runtime interface pointing to the URL of the web page. With the Edit and Preview interfaces blank Definer uses the Runtime interface in the editing environment as well as the runtime environment. If a Preview interface but not an Edit interface is specified then the Preview interface would be used for all Edit interface requests. is a flowchart illustrating how Definer dispatches user requests to the appropriate DXC interface.

Since the Publish interface points to a static HTML page all Definer requests to this DXC simply retrieve the page and display it within a host page. No configurable properties need to be registered for this DXC and thus a Property Page interface is not needed. Since the component does not generate any event callbacks Event interfaces are not needed.

The configurable properties of a DXC are stored in the DXC registry at registration time. Since Definer maintains a number of internal attributes for each DXC instance DXC property names are automatically prefixed with dxc p  to differentiate them from the internal attributes. Each instance of a DXC maintains a copy of each registered property. The properties of a DXC instance collectively represent the state of that instance.

Whenever a request is submitted to a DXC the state of the target instance is passed to the DXC interface by including each property as a request parameter. The DXC then interprets the state of the instance and dynamically generates the corresponding HTML. Definer provides a generic Property Page for editing the properties of a DXC instance. The DXC may override the generic Property Page by implementing and registering a Property Page interface. Alternatively the DXC may use callbacks embedded within its Edit Mode HTML to allow visual editing of properties within the Edit page itself.

For example a DXC for maintaining a FAQ section of a site may include visual editing controls within its Edit interface as shown in . If these controls are linked to DXC callbacks then the properties may be modified without using a property page at all.

There are a number of different ways in which DXC edit interfaces may be implemented. One example is a custom Property Page supplied by the component developer. Other alternatives include custom applets or even in place editing within the DXC s edit page.

For both the applet and the in place editing approaches the DXC needs to be able to send itself messages in response to user actions or events. However the DXC cannot call itself directly without losing the context of its host page. Thus all messages may be routed through Definer or the runtime engine which may be accomplished with callbacks.

The implementation of Definer callbacks as well as a few other features that simplify in place editing will now be described in detail.

The dxc init macro at the top of the body as shown in is intercepted by Definer and replaced with a number of pre defined javascript functions. Among those functions is the DXCCallback  id function. The id macro is replaced by Definer with the unique id of the DXC instance allowing many DXC instances to import the same set of functions into the same page without introducing name conflicts. Any reference to a DXC javascript function may include the   id suffix.

The DXCCallback  id function sends a request to Definer asking for the specified message to be forwarded to the DXC. In the above example if the user clicks Notify on the page then the same DXC instance that produced the HTML would be sent the message UserClickedNotify . The DXC can interpret and respond to the message any way it chooses.

The format and meaning of any callback message is entirely defined by the DXC. Since the DXC constructs the HTML that contains the callback messages it should know how to interpret the messages it receives.

The Definer Text Editor e.g. text editor dialog box shown in is an applet that allows the user to visually edit and format HTML text. DXCs can make use of the Definer Text Editor as a cheap and easy way of providing rich text editing features within the DXC. A sample implementation is illustrated in .

In the example shown in when the user clicks This is some text the Definer Text Editor is launched containing the text specified in the first parameter passed to DXCTextEdit  id i.e. This is some text . Assuming that the user edits the text to read The text has changed then Definer forwards the message NewTextData The text has changed to the DXC. It is noted that the second parameter to the DXCTextEdit  id function the message to send contains the special symbol at . This symbol is replaced with the output of the Text Editor before the message is sent.

Popup context menus are a useful feature for DXCs that have complex editing features. Definer allows DXCs to create and use popup menus relatively easily.

The second parameter to the dxc menu . . . macro is a list of item names separated by the pipe character . The whole list may be enclosed in single or double quotes it is noted that the menu name itself is not quoted . The item name list specifies the text that appears for each item in the menu. In this example the menu has 3 items. Their captions are Option 1 Option 2 and Option 3 .

Next a URL is assigned to each menu item. One of these URLs is invoked if the user selects the corresponding menu item. The URLs are assigned to menu items within a block of JavaScript. The DXCSetMenuItem  id function imported via dxc init takes 3 parameters the menu name an item name and a URL. In this example the URLs point to JavaScript function calls that invoke a DXC callback for each item. Each item invokes a callback with a different message when selected by the user.

Finally a link is provided that shows the popup menu when the link is activated. An anchor is used to point to a DXCShowMenu  id function call. When the user clicks the Click here for menu link the menu pop is displayed. If the user selects any item from the menu then the corresponding message is sent back to the DXC.

Part 1 This is a process by which an instance of the object External DXC Wrapper is created for every DXC. The HTTP interfaces of this object are set via the DXC database not shown in the diagram .

Part 2 It is the responsibility of the External DXC Wrapper to pass all the necessary parameters to the external HTTP interface. It obtains these parameters from the metadata store. These parameters are identified by the prefix dxcp 

Part 6 Assuming that the interface returns static HTML this gets returned to the External DXC Wrapper.

Part 7 The header of the HTTP can contain any instance data that needs to be stored. Any parameters that begin with dxcp will be stored in the metadata.

Part 8 In the example shown in the External DXC Wrapper returned the static HTML without any modification. In this case however the HTML is first filtered or converted before being returned.

An example of such a filter would be one that removes all other sections of HTML other than the body before passing it back to the server page. Filters can be cascaded and can be specified for each interface.

Parts 10 11 Show the data flow to cope with SSIs. Any such SSIs are processed prior to the data being returned to the client.

The billing subsystem provides the necessary functionality for DXC owners to charge for the usage of their DXCs. There are obviously two types of billing interfaces Internal and External billing interfaces. If a user has registered a billing interface then the External DXC Wrapper invokes this interface. If there is no registered billing interface then an internal one is used.

Part 5 While the data from the HTTP response is saved as metadata for the runtime interface the data may be saved in the billing database.

Part 6 If a billing interface was not registered then depending on the internal billing model chosen during registration an internal interface may be invoked.

As shown in the Billing DB API is provided to save and return billing information per user per DXC version Registration ID . A Billing Information Class defines the types of data stored in a billing information structure. Thus the Billing DB API allows DXC developers to get statistics on DXC usage.

A Payment DXC accepts secure payments for DXCs stores the resulting billing information via the Billing API uses the DXC DB API to retrieve information regarding the DXC and facilitates payment to the DXC owners. Payments may be made per DXC or per developer.

A report on the amount of credit available may be generated with a warning on low credit via email . A trigger that determines the low credit warning may be specified as a percentage. A reporting API provides the API s that a billing core may use to trigger a warning if the credit is low.

A Billing Core provides the basic functionality of verifying that a DXC may be used. The steps include incrementing the usage counter it is the only module that knows about the billing model save information about the billing model via the Billing DB API and interface with DXCs that have been paid for by sponsors. A Billing Core API increments usage and tests if the DXC been paid for.

At registration a DXC developer is presented with a choice of the following billing options billing via the developer s own interface a predetermined provider billing system no billing no usage tracking either free no charge or one of a number of other models e.g. free for the first x days or y uses then charged . . . . If the DXC has a registered billing interface then this interface is called every time the DXC is used. A name value pair returns the result. If a user chooses No billing then billing API s are not used. If the DXC is Free then the usage is tracked. If the DXC is not free and there is no billing interface registered then the billing is determined by the billing model for that particular DXC. The following are some of the billing models free for first N days per user free for the first M uses per user and subsequent to the period during which it is free charges are applied e.g. X per day per user or Y per use . For such billing models N M X Y need to be stored as part of the billing information.

The billing interface invoked or the internal billing model used depends on the version of the DXC being executed. Once an older version is converted to a newer version the billing model used becomes that of the newer one. Credit is stored per DXC or per DXC writer. Hence a user may not need to have a separate credit account just to be able to use the newer version of a DXC. Available credit is stored in a form that is independent of the billing model stored as . Hence it may be possible for versions of the same DXC to use different billing models.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a Life Site with the Definer interface may be provided to an end user. Life Site is a server based interface that enables an individual to manage all personal content on the Internet in a protected environment. Individuals are able to organize manage and store all their relevant information in a centralized storage for management of important personal information e.g. biographical data property passport information social security number moving violations employment history insurance policies product warranties etc. . Life Site also provides the ability for an individual to manage the navigation surfing or visitation of information on the Internet through their own life site. Thus important personal information is easily retrieved via the Web enabling mobility and providing a greater sense of information data security.

Since the Life Site is accessed with a Web interface it is PC independent with the ability to manage and retrieve information from wherever there is a Web connection. Individuals are less dependent on their own ability to manage technology advances because such advances may be incorporated to the Life Site at the central server.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention extranet business infrastructures may be provided under the Universal Content Manager. With an extranet created according to the invention companies may interact with each other in a custom built dedicated environment which will envelop all aspects of their business operations. It is a server based system featuring easily managed Universal Content Manager user interfaces enabling manufacturers sub contractors wholesalers and retailers to communicate and transact with high efficiency. Among Extranet s many benefits to businesses of all sizes are 

Secure and efficient processing and distribution of orders back orders transactions billing and account summaries 

Up to the minute dialogues between inter dependent industry specific business and business groups and

As Extranet systems become woven into a broad variety of business landscapes DXCs may be created and integrated into the Universal Content Manager interface by third party developers. These participants may utilize the application program interface API contained in the Software Development Kit as thereby fueling the ongoing expansion of the Universal Content Manager on an exponential ever widening basis. them a SIC code.

Once registered the basic product offered to the customer includes their site wrapped inside a frame. The bottom frame includes the following 

In addition the customer has immediate ability to choose the following other one time billable options 

One component available is a Shopping Cart which is tightly integrated with Definer. The following Billable events are for the shopping cart 

Additionally a customer may trigger a billing requirement if his site usage exceeds the following resource limits 

With the advent of future products it is essential that the following flexible rating modes are supported 

It may be a limitation that the billing solution restrict a customer to be billed in a single currency.

Currently Credit Card payments are processed manually in the country of the customer USA Australia Hong Kong . Therefore Definer initiates off line processing of Credit Card payment through a batch process written or on line report . It also automatically generates electronic invoices for any product. Initially only email invoices will be supported though in the future it should be possible to include other forms e.g. fax .

The interfaces should be implemented in order to allow the billing system to inter operate with the Web Definer and Hosting environments. The Web Servers such as server will be globally distributed and provide the necessary primary customer information systems. Component SDK Environment Ad Server Environment Customer Care Environment Financial Systems General Ledger .

Sponsorship relationships for sponsoring the Web Definer may include a commission component where a commission is paid to the Sponsor for a percentage any revenue from customer introduced as part of the relationship. The commission levels may differ for different classes of product Full access to Definer or limited access to Web Definer etc.

When a software developer installs an external component that component may be for sale. Charges may be levied for the following 

It will thus be seen that the objects set forth above among those made apparent from the preceding description are efficiently attained and because certain changes may be made in carrying out the above method and in the construction s set forth without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therein.

