---

title: Intelligent disposition manager
abstract: When a communication is directed to an intended recipient, a determination may be made by an intelligent communication disposition manager as to whether one or more available communication devices of the intended recipient are available for routing the incoming communication either based on device availability or routing previously defined by the intended recipient. The intelligent communication disposition manager may utilize presence data of the intended recipient for sending a notification of the incoming communication to one or more of the intended recipient's available communication devices. The intended recipient may select a preferred call routing option for the incoming call/message to be sent. Based on the real-time response from the intended recipient, the call/message may be routed to his/her preferred communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855271&OS=08855271&RS=08855271
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08855271
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
With modern communications systems it is not uncommon for people to utilize multiple devices and various networks to communicate. Although having multiple modes of communication may help an intended recipient to be more reachable a caller may have difficulty deciding which mode may be the best option for communicating with an intended recipient at a given time. By connecting to a packet switched IP based network unified communication across multiple networks e.g. wireless PSTN HFC etc. and multiple communication devices e.g. computers PDAs wireless and wireline phones interactive televisions etc. is possible.

Presence technology has evolved over time from its instant messaging IM origins to become an ever increasingly valuable element of unified communications. By revealing more information about a contact such as a location status current activity or even a person s mood communication may be enhanced. Although a caller may have presence information for a person he she wishes to communicate with he she may still have to make a choice between several communication devices to reach the intended recipient.

While unified communication over a packet switched network and presence technologies are well known there is a need to utilize presence data in addition to real time notification methods to provide for more efficient and productive communication.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for providing a notification of an incoming call or message communication to an intended recipient on one or more communication endpoints wherein the intended recipient may control the routing of the call or message based on his her presence or a real time response to the notification. By utilizing presence technology and by allowing for an intended recipient to make a decision on how to dispose of a call or message in real time an intelligent communication disposition management system may help a user control communications more efficiently.

In one embodiment of the present invention an incoming call or message is routed to an intelligent communication disposition manager. When an incoming call or message is received presence data of an intended recipient is retrieved and utilized to send a notification message to one or more of the intended recipient s communication devices as determined by the retrieved presence data. The intended recipient may select a preferred call routing option for the incoming call or message to be sent. Based on the real time response from the intended recipient the call or message may be routed to his her preferred communication device.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Communication media including electronic media telecommunications media and broadcast media were once distinct and separate services. Recently service providers are offering a convergence of services. A user may utilize a plurality of services on a single device. For example a cable television set top box may be utilized for not only television services but may also be utilized for telephony Internet services e mail music location based services etc. In accordance with common Internet Protocols IP devices may be utilized as a user interface to communicate over a packet switched network.

As should be appreciated numerous end point devices may be utilized to send and or receive calls and or messages in various operating environments according to embodiments of the present invention including but not limited to personal computers server computers wireline telephones wireless telephones digital phones video phones text messaging devices VoIP phones set top boxes personal digital assistants handheld computing devices and distributed computing environments that may include any of the above devices.

Wireless communication devices such as a mobile phone PDA or other mobile computing devices may be connected to a wireless voice and data network . A wireless network may connect to a public switched telephone network PSTN and or may connect to a packet switched network Internet via a wireless network gateway. Plain old telephone system POTS and landline telephones may connect to a wireless network via a public switched telephone network PSTN . A VoIP network gateway may serve as a translator between a PSTN and IP networks . Dedicated VoIP phones allow VoIP calls without the use of a computer . A VoIP phone may connect directly to an IP network to communicate with other endpoints. Personal computers may connect to an IP network for various communications such as voice e mail messaging faxing etc. As should be appreciated transmission technologies for delivery of voice and or data communications over IP networks such as the Internet or other packet switched networks is a known technology to those skilled in the art and will not be discussed in extensive detail herein.

Recently cable set top boxes STB have become more than a device in which to receive digital television but may be used to provide a variety of services including but not limited to telephone services high speed Internet access Video on Demand VOD and information services. A STB may function to receive a stream of IP packets that may carry video voice and or data information for display on a connected television set . A simplified block diagram illustrating a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for the present invention will be described in further detail later in this document with reference to .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a presence server may be connected to an IP network and may be utilized to receive current presence and availability data of a contact. A contact s presence information may be shared with others who may wish to know the availability or willingness of the contact to communicate. Presentity is a term defined as an entity described by presence information. The term presentity will herein be used to describe a person who is described by or associated with a presence status. A presence server may be operable to receive presence information of multiple devices of a user. This functionality is referred to as multiple points of presence MPOP . A presence server may track the presence of a presentity s computer mobile phone PDA landline POTS phone STB etc.

According to one embodiment presence information may be automatically updated to a presence server every time a presentity s presence status changes. For example if a presentity utilizes his her mobile phone to make a phone call a presence server may detect the utilization of the mobile phone and change a presence state of the presentity s mobile phone to busy and may include a descriptor such as On a Call. According to another embodiment a presentity s presence information may be manually entered by the presentity. For example a presentity may go on vacation and may wish to not be contacted. He she may manually set his her presence as busy or unavailable on all communication devices. According to another embodiment a presentity s electronic calendar may provide presence data that may be tracked by a presence server . For example a presentity may have a meeting scheduled in his her electronic calendar. A presence server may detect the scheduled meeting and consider the presentity s presence state as busy.

According to an embodiment an intelligent communication disposition manager is a network based software application module operable to receive and route a call or message to an optimal communication end point based on contact information and presence data associated with an intended recipient. When a call is made or a message is sent to an intended recipient an intelligent communication disposition manager may send a notification to various communication devices of the intended recipient. An intelligent communication disposition manager may utilize contact information and presence information to determine to which a devices of an intended recipient to send a notification. Each communication device that a notification is sent to may respond to the notification. Options may be provided to each device on how to route the incoming call message.

According to an embodiment an intelligent communication disposition manager may comprise a set of application programming interfaces API exposed to applications and operating systems that allow communication between applications and operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. APIs may be operable to manage presence and contact information in addition to message call notifications and responses.

According to one embodiment a presence server may comprise a database for storing contact and presence information e.g. telephone numbers e mail addresses IP addresses and availability data associated with each contact number address . According to another embodiment the aforementioned database may be located within an intelligent communication disposition manager . Contact and presence information may be in the form of Extensible Markup Language XML data structures in which a variety of programming interfaces may access. As should be appreciated XML is only one available means for structuring data and any other suitable data structuring model may be utilized according to the embodiments described herein. According to an embodiment an intelligent communication disposition manager and a presence server may be separate systems located remotely and communicate across a network or alternatively may be a converged system.

Having described elements of an architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the present invention is a flow diagram of a method for providing intelligent communication disposition management. The method starts at OPERATION and proceeds to OPERATION where a user makes a call or sends a message to an intended recipient. A user may utilize one of many modes of communication e.g. mobile phone landline phone VoIP phone IM e mail SMS etc. . According to one embodiment a user may specify a specific device of an intended recipient when making a call or sending a message. For example a user may dial an intended recipient s mobile phone number to make a call. Alternatively a user may select an intended recipient s name when making a call or sending a message wherein one or more communication devices may be associated with the intended recipient s name. A user making a call or sending a message may depend on logic of a presence server or other application to route the call or message.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where a determination is made as to whether an intelligent communication disposition management feature is enabled on an intended recipient s communication device. According to an embodiment a data services system database may contain information that allows for a determination to be made as to whether prerequisites for allowing a requested service are met for an intended recipient. If an intelligent communication disposition management feature is not an enabled feature for an intended recipient the method proceeds to OPERATION where the call message is passed through to the intended recipient s specified communication device. The method then ends at OPERATION .

If an intelligent communication disposition management feature is an enabled feature for an intended recipient the method proceeds to OPERATION where the call message is routed to an intelligent communication disposition manager . As described earlier an intelligent communication disposition manager may be network based and may communicate using a suitable protocol. The method proceeds to OPERATION where the intelligent communication disposition server receives the call message and makes a query for contact information and presence data associated with the intended recipient in addition to logic customized by an intended recipient or default settings to make a determination as to what communication device s of the intended recipient may be available. According to an embodiment the intelligent communication disposition server may communicate with a presence server for contact and presence data.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where based on retrieved logic contact and presence data a notification is sent to one or more communication devices associated with the intended recipient. According to an embodiment the notification may be in one of a plurality of communication modes depending on the device receiving the notification. The notification may be sent as an e mail a text message an audible message a selectable visual display or in various other ways known in the art.

The following is an example to aid in describing embodiments of the present invention. An example person Bob may be at work. His child s school may call his home number because his child is sick. The call is routed to an intelligent communication disposition manager which makes a query and determines that Bob has an IM client application on his work computer open his e mail application is running and that Bob is engaged in a call on his mobile phone. Based on this gathered information the intelligent communication disposition manager may send a notification over Bob s IM client and to his e mail but not to his mobile phone that a phone call from ABC Elementary School with phone number XXX XXX XXXX is calling. The notification may provide options such as to forward the call to a specified device mobile phone home phone work phone etc. to send the call to voicemail to deny the call etc. Bob may receive the notification and select to forward the call to his work phone.

The method proceeds to OPERATION if a response to the notification is not received within a specified amount of time the method proceeds to OPERATION where the call or message may be routed based on a defined logic. The logic may be user set or may be a default setting. For example if a response to a notification is not received within a specified amount of time a call may automatically be routed to voicemail to a home phone or to an SMS account. According to user set logic the intended recipient may select a preferred call routing option for the incoming call or message to be sent. That is a user may define that when a given set of routing means are available a desired routing is to a specified device. For example a user may define that if his her cell phone home phone and work phone are all available then communication routing should proceed to his her cell phone automatically without the user providing a response to the notification.

If a response is received within a specified amount of time the method proceeds to OPERATION where the call or message is routed according to the response from the intended recipient. The method ends at OPERATION .

Having described an example process flow of embodiments of the present invention is a simplified block diagram of an example communication disposition notification user interface . Referring to the example user interface shows what may be shown on a display of a communication device when a call is made to an intended recipient. The example call disposition notification user interface may comprise a message area which may display one or more of a name phone number and or address associated with a calling sending communication device. Referring back to the previous example the text within the message area may read Incoming Call from ABC Elementary School XXX XXX XXXX. 

Various options may be provided for allowing an intended recipient to decide how to handle an incoming call or message. An Answer option may be provided. If an intended recipient selects an Answer option a call may be routed a communication device from which the intended recipient made the selection. A Deny option may be provided. If this option is selected a call may be dropped or may be sent to voicemail or may be routed according to a specified logic. A Send to Voicemail option may be provided which we selected may route a call to the intended recipient s voice mailbox. A Send to Home Phone YYY YYY YYYY option and or a Send to Mobile Phone ZZZ ZZZ ZZZZ option may be provided. When one of these options is selected a call may be routed to the indicated endpoint device. As should be appreciated various options may be provided depending on an intended recipient s communication devices client applications associated with those devices presence information as well as other factors.

According to an embodiment and as mentioned previously a CATV STB may be utilized as a gateway to deliver multiple services which allows for interactivity through a user s television set . For example an IP enabled STB may allow a user to channel surf streaming HD Quality television content IPtv navigate the Internet watch Video on Demand VOD play video or Internet based games listen to music make phone calls VoIP video conference instant message IM run a full array of computing applications securely store data as well as various other network activities.

According to an embodiment a CATV STB is an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the present invention. An intended recipient of a call or message may receive a call or message to his her CATV STB . is a simplified block diagram of another example call disposition notification user interface . Referring to the example user interface shows what may be displayed on a display of a television when a message such as an SMS message is sent to an intended recipient. The example call disposition notification user interface may comprise a message area which may display one or more of a name phone number and or address associated with a sending communication device. Various options may be provided for allowing an intended recipient to decide how to handle the message. A View option may be provided. If an intended recipient selects a View option a message may be routed a communication device from which the intended recipient made the selection. So in this example the SMS message may be displayed on the television screen. A Deny option may be provided. If this option is selected a message may be returned as undeliverable or may be sent to voicemail or may be routed according to a specified logic. A Send to Voicemail option may be provided which we selected may convert a message to a voice message and sent to the intended recipient s voice mailbox. A Send to Home Phone YYY YYY YYYY option and or a Send to Mobile Phone ZZZ ZZZ ZZZZ option may be provided. When one of these options is selected a message may be routed to the selected endpoint device. A Send to X Y.com Mail Account option may be provided which when selected may route a message to the intended recipient s specified e mail account. As should be appreciated various options may be provided depending on an intended recipient s communication devices client applications associated with those devices presence information as well as other factors.

With reference to a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the invention is described. Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side backend head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism of a STB receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art although some embodiments described in this specification are oriented to middleware installed and executed on a STB alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understood by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via an IP network for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via an IP network . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as an IP network or the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to an embodiment of the present invention digital video recording functionality may be located remotely on the head end server side and called upon by a client set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer profile data from services provider data services for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer and for pre populating product services order forms and customer lead generation forms. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on products and services subscribed to by a customer from her cable services provider. For example in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the customer information database may contain data to allow a determination as to whether a particular product or service is already provisioned at a customer service address or whether a work order is pending for a particular product or service provisioning at the customer service address. The customer information database may also include information that allows for a determination as to whether prerequisites for provisioning a requested product of service are met by a requesting customer. For example if a customer requests electronic mail services and high speed Internet access is a prerequisite for electronic mail services the customer information database may be queried to determine whether the required Internet access is provisioned at the requesting customer location or address.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Embodiments of the present invention for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention. Although embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to particular standards and protocols the present invention is not limited to such standards and protocols.

While the specification includes examples the invention s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

