---

title: Method and system for multi-standby operation for a multi-SIM multi-standby communication device
abstract: A communication device comprises a single radio resource unit that is shared by a plurality of virtual modems (VMs), each uniquely associated with a single one of a plurality of SIM cards. Traffic related to the SIM cards are concurrently handled utilizing corresponding VMs. Available radio resource in the single radio resource unit are shared by the VMs based on corresponding VM states, namely, an active state, an idle state and a suspended state. VMs in an idle state concurrently monitor paging events and concurrently perform idle mode procedures such as location updating. VMs not related to an intended traffic are suspended. A VM related to the intended traffic is transitioned from an idle state to an active state to enable the communication for the intended traffic. Once the communication is complete, the suspended VMs are resumed to continue idle mode activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874167&OS=08874167&RS=08874167
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08874167
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100616
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims the benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 261 922 filed on Nov. 17 2009.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to communication systems. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for multi standby operation for a multi SIM multi standby communication device.

With the development of mobile communication systems mobile devices may utilize various mobile communication techniques such as for example global system for mobile communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE network and wireless local area network WLAN to receive desired services. In instances where a mobile device subscribes to a communication network subscriber information may be required to identify the mobile device to the network for various network services such as authentication accounting billing and security services. The subscriber information may be stored in a subscriber identity module SIM card inserted in the mobile device. A SIM card is a card or a chip installed in the mobile device providing information to identify the subscriber carrying the mobile device to networks.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A method and or system for multi standby operation for a multi SIM multi standby communication device substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for multi standby operation for a multi SIM multi standby communication device. In various embodiments of the invention a multiple subscriber identity module multi SIM multi standby communication device comprises a single radio resource unit providing layer namely physical layer PHY and RF for example functionalities. The single radio resource unit is shared by a plurality of virtual modems VMs implemented in a virtual modem architecture VMA . The VMA is deployed on the single radio resource unit to handle operations in a multi standby mode. The VMA comprises a plurality of virtual modems VMs a virtual modem framework VMF and a virtual modem controller VMC . Each of the plurality of VMs is uniquely associated with a single one of a plurality of SIM cards that are coupled to the multi SIM multi standby communication device.

The multi SIM multi standby communication device is operable to concurrently handle traffic related to each of the SIM cards utilizing a corresponding one of the plurality of VMs. Available radio resource in the single radio resource unit are shared by each of the plurality of VMs based on corresponding VM states namely an active state an idle state and a suspended state. For example the VMC may be configured to guarantee the usage of radio resources for VMs in an active state. VMs in a suspended state are not be allowed to use or share radio resources available in the single radio resource unit. Limited radio resources may be provided or allocated to VMs in an idle state to support idle mode activities such as neighbor cell monitoring and measurements. VMs in an idle state may be operable to concurrently monitoring paging events to detect or check incoming traffic and concurrently perform idle mode tasks and or procedures such as for example cell measurement cell selection and or cell reselection. One or more VMs that are not related to detected intended traffic may be suspended based on the available radio resources in the single radio resource unit and or user expectation. A specific VM that is related to the detected intended traffic is transitioned from an idle state to an active state in order to handle communication and or processing of the detected intended traffic. Once the communication is complete the specific VM may indicate that radio resources that were previously allocated may no longer be needed. As a result the VMC may transition the suspended VMs from the suspended state to the idle state to resume idle mode activities and or tasks.

A multi SIM multi standby communication device such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that are operable to communicate or support various network services such as authentication billing and or security with a plurality of communication access networks such as for example the UMTS network the LTE network and the GSM network . Multiple SIM cards such as SIM cards may be inserted in the multi SIM multi standby communication device whenever needed. The inserted SIM cards may be coupled or connected with the multi SIM multi standby communication device through one or more SIM card sockets or connections. The multi SIM multi standby communication device may read or retrieve SIM identification information from the SIM cards via the one or more SIM card sockets or connections. The retrieved SIM identification information may be stored within the multi SIM multi standby communication device to support various network services such as authentication billing and security whenever needed. In this regard the multi SIM multi standby communication device may be configured to activate the retrieved SIM identification information either on one SIM card at a time or on multiple SIM cards at the same time depending on implementation and or device configuration. In instances where the retrieved SIM identification information is activated on one SIM card at a time the multi SIM multi standby communication device may operate in a single standby mode. In instances where the retrieved SIM identification information is activated on two or more SIM cards at the same time the multi SIM multi standby communication device may operate in a multi standby mode. In this regard the multi SIM multi standby communication device in a multi standby mode may be operable to support multiple subscriptions at the same time. A user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device may be allowed to utilize multiple numbers multiple different service plans and or network carriers at the same time whenever the multi SIM multi standby communication device is in a multi standby mode. A single radio resource unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that are operable to provide PHY and RF functionalities to support desired services on a communication device. For example single radio resource unit may be integrated into the multi SIM multi standby communication devices respectively for PHY and RF support.

In various exemplary embodiments of the invention the multi SIM multi standby communication device may deploy a VMA over the single radio resource unit to support a multi standby mode. The VMA may be configured to concurrently handle multiple tasks or instances over the single radio resource unit . Each of tasks or instances is associated with one of the multiple SIM cards . A task may also be called an instance of a process. An air interface protocol stack and or a Common Application Programming Interface CAPI module may comprise multiple tasks. A collection of air interface protocol stack tasks and or CAPI tasks associated with a single SIM card together with appropriate physical layer PHY DSP functionalities and or RF functionalities supported by the single radio resource unit is referred to as a Virtual Modem VM . Each VM in the VMA may be assigned to handle instances related to one of the multiple SIM cards . A VM may be placed or may operate in one of three VM states namely an active state an idle state or a suspended state. In the active state radio resources are assigned to the VM and a valid or active connection between a VM and an associated cell is established for data and or voice communication.

The VM may be allowed to utilize radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to communicate or support services related to a specific SIM card. In the idle state no valid or active connection between the VM and an associated cell is established however associated registration information is retained in the associated cell network. In the idle state the VM may be allowed to utilize radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to monitor paging events and to perform normal idle mode activities such as cell selection reselection. In the suspended state a VM may be suspended from using radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . Before entering the suspended state the VM may need to suspend or abort procedures such as for example data transfer operating band change and or manual public land mobile network PLMN search which are currently being executed on the VM.

In various exemplary embodiments of the invention the VMA may be configured to arbitrate and or resolve contention between VMs for radio resources via the transition of the VM among one or more of the three VM states. For example the VMA may ensure that at most one of the plurality of VMs in the VMA is in the active state for a given time instant. In other words no two or more VMs may be allowed to be in an active state at the same time. In this regard the VMA may be operable to suspend one or more of the plurality of VMs from using or sharing radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to ensure an uninterrupted radio resource usage by a specific VM. Whenever radio resources in the single radio resource unit become available for sharing the suspended VMs may be resumed to continue idle mode activities for example.

In various exemplary embodiments of the invention the VMA may be configured to coordinate the usage of radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to support concurrent procedures initiated by two or more VMs in the VMA via a time multiplexing method for example. Two or more VMs in the VMA may be operable to share radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to monitor paging events in order to check incoming calls and or SMS for example. In another example two or more VMs in the VMA may share radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to perform idle mode procedures or activities such as for example cell selection reselection.

The UMTS network may comprise suitable devices circuitry interfaces and or code that are operable to provide data and or voice services to various UMTS capable communication devices such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device using UMTS technology. In this regard the UMTS network may be operable to authenticate users such as the multi SIM multi standby communication devices for UMTS access utilizing SIM cards. A SIM card for UMTS is also known as universal subscribe identity module USIM . Only authorized users may access the UMTS network . The UMTS network may be operable to check the validity of USIM identification information on one or more USIM cards coupled to for example the multi SIM multi standby communication device . The UMTS network may determine whether the multi standby communication device is allowed to access the UMTS network for various network services such as for example authentication accounting and or billing services.

The LTE network may comprise suitable devices circuitry interfaces and or code that are operable to provide data and or voice services to various LTE capable communication devices such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device using LTE technology. In this regard the LTE network may be operable to authenticate users such as the multi SIM multi standby communication devices for LTE access utilizing SIM cards. A SIM card for LTE is also known as Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC . Only authorized users may access the LTE network . The LTE network may be operable to check the validity of UICC identification information on one or more UICCs coupled to for example the multi SIM multi standby communication device . The LTE network may determine whether the multi SIM multi standby communication device is allowed to access the LTE network for various network services such as for example authentication accounting and or billing services.

The GSM network may comprise suitable devices circuitry interfaces and or code that are operable to provide data and or voice services to various GSM capable communication devices such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device using GSM technology. In this regard the GSM network may be operable to authenticate users such as the multi SIM multi standby communication devices for GSM access utilizing SIM cards. Only authorized users may access the GSM network . The GSM network may be operable to check the validity of SIM identification information on one or more SIM cards coupled to for example the multi SIM multi standby communication device . The GSM network may determine whether the multi SIM multi standby communication device is allowed to access the GSM network for various network services such as for example authentication accounting and or billing services.

In an exemplary operation a multi SIM multi standby communication device such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device may be connected or coupled with multiple SIM cards such as the SIM cards through one or more SIM card sockets or connections. SIM identification information on the multiple SIM cards may be utilized on one SIM card at a time and or on multiple SIM cards at the same time depending on implementation. SIM identification information on each of the multiple SIM cards may be communicated to the multi SIM multi standby communication device through the one or more SIM card sockets. The multi SIM multi standby communication device may operate in a single standby mode or a multi standby mode depending on device configuration and or user preferences. A user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device in a multi standby mode may be allowed to utilize SIM identification information associated with each of the multiple SIM cards to receive corresponding services at the same time.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention multiple numbers multiple different service plans and or network carriers associated with each of the multiple SIM cards may be utilized at the same time on the multi SIM multi standby communication device . In this regard the multi SIM multi standby communication device may be operable to utilize the VMA over the single radio resource unit to support a multi standby mode. The VMA may be operable to receive services associated with the multiple SIM cards at the same time. Each VM in the VMA is assigned to serve one of the multiple SIM cards . For a given time instant a VM may be in one of the three VM states namely an active state an idle state and a suspended state. The VMA may be configured to manage contention from associated VMs for radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . The VMs in the VMA may be operable to utilize radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to monitor paging events. Incoming traffic related to corresponding SIM cards may be detected from the monitored paging events. In the idle state the VMs in the VMA may be operable to perform normal idle mode activities utilizing the radio resources available in the single radio resource unit

The wireless radio unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate radio frequency signals with various communication networks such as for example the LTE network and the GSM network . SIM identification information that is retrieved from one or more of the SIM cards may be communicated via the wireless radio unit to identify the multi SIM multi standby communication device to network for desired network services such as accounting billing services.

The user interface unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may enable a user to interact with the multi SIM multi standby communication device . For example the user interface unit may be operable to present the user with information on SIM cards available to the multi SIM multi standby communication device . The user interface unit may allow the user to enter a preferred SIM card selection and or a desired application selection.

The processor unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage and or control operations of device components such as for example the wireless radio unit the user interface unit the SIM database and or the SIM card controller . For example the processor unit may be operable to coordinate and or control operations of the SIM card controller in response to a SIM card selection from the user interface unit . The processor unit may also be operable to run a specific application via the application processor based on an application selection from the user interface unit .

The processor unit may be operable to select one or more SIM cards based on user preferences and or device configuration. The processor unit may communicate the SIM card selection information to the SIM card controller so that the selected one or more SIM cards may be connected to the SIM card sockets and thereby to the processor unit . The selected SIM cards may be actively connected to the SIM card controller to enable downloading of corresponding SIM identification information into the SIM database of the multi SIM multi standby communication device . Notwithstanding in accordance with various embodiments of the invention after SIM identification information is downloaded from each of the selected SIM cards such as the SIM cards into the SIM database of the multi SIM multi standby communication device the SIM identification information corresponding to one or more of the plurality of SIM cards may be in an active state or in a standby state in the SIM database . More specifically at a given time instant SIM identification information actually being utilized or applied to access corresponding services by the multi SIM multi standby communication device is in an active state otherwise in a standby state.

In instances where the multi SIM multi standby communication device is configured to operate in a single standby mode the processor unit may communicate with the SIM database to activate the stored SIM identification information related to one SIM card at a time. In other words the multi SIM multi standby communication device in a single standby mode may be operable to utilize SIM identification information activated for a single SIM card at a time. In instances where the multi SIM multi standby communication device is configured to operate in a multi standby mode the processor unit may be operable to communicate with the SIM database to activate the stored SIM identification information corresponding to multiple SIM cards such as the SIM cards at the same time. Specifically the multi SIM multi standby communication device in a multi standby mode may be operable to utilize SIM identification information activated for multiple SIM cards at the same time. In this regard the processor unit may be operable to allow a user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device to utilize SIM identification information associated with each of the SIM cards to receive corresponding services at the same time. For example the user may therefore be allowed to utilize multiple numbers multiple different service plans and or network carriers associated with each of the multiple SIM cards at the same time on the multi SIM multi standby communication device . The processor unit comprises a communication processor and an application processor

In various exemplary embodiments of the invention the communication processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to utilize a VMA over a single radio resource unit such as the single radio resource unit associated with the wireless radio unit to support a multi standby mode. The VMA is a multi SIM multi standby platform and comprises a virtual modem controller VMC a Virtual Model Framework VMF and a plurality of VMs. Each VM in the VMA is assigned or related to one of the multiple SIM cards . For a given time instant a VM may operate in one of a plurality of VM states namely an active state an idle state or a suspended state. To avoid radio resource conflicts at most one of the VMs in the VMA may be in an active state to transmit and or receive traffic related to a corresponding SIM card. One or more VMs may be in an idle state at the same time depending on radio resources available in the single radio resource unit for sharing. One or more VMs may be in a suspended state at the same time. Radio resources available in the single radio resource unit may be shared among the VMs. In this regard the VMA may enable monitoring paging events related to each of related SIM cards. For example VMs may receive a paging advertisement message from an associated cell to check incoming traffic. Upon detection of an intended traffic related to a specific SIM card such as the SIM card which is to be handled by a particular VM the VMA may perform a procedural conflict check and or a radio resource conflict check on other VMs to determine whether there are any conflicts. In instances where there may be one or more conflicts the VMA may be operable to arbitrate the conflicts and provide a resolution.

In instances where services and or procedures associated with one or more of the SIM cards are in progress the VMA may suspend the one or more VMs to ensure an uninterrupted radio resource usage by the VM related to the SIM card . Once radio resources become available in the single radio resource unit for sharing by the suspended VMs the VMA may resume the suspended VMs so as to continue normal idle mode activities and or tasks such as for example paging reception decoding serving cell measurements neighbor cell measurements and or location updating. In this regard the VMA may be operable to concurrently monitor paging events to check incoming traffic and concurrently perform idle mode procedures such as location updating based on radio resources available in the single radio resource unit

In instances where no services and or procedures associated with each of the SIM cards is in progress the VMA may transition the VM related to the SIM card from an idle state to an active state to transmit and or receive the traffic related to the SIM card . The communication processor may communicate the traffic related with the SIM card to the application processor to support desired applications.

The application processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to run various applications such as video and or audio multimedia applications. The application processor may present applications to users through the user interface unit .

The SIM card controller may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage and or control connections from multiple SIM cards such as the SIM cards to the SIM card sockets which are directly coupled with the processor unit . In this regard the SIM card controller may be operable to establish connections between the SIM cards and the processor unit . The SIM card controller may be configured to switch SIM card connection from one to another as needed without re booting the multi SIM multi standby communication device .

A SIM card such as the SIM card may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store subscriber personal identification information such as for example operator network phone number activated services billing and credit information. The SIM card may also store the user s identity for gaining access to the network and receiving calls and user s personal information such as phone directory and received SMS messages. The SIM card may be implemented as a small printed circuit board. The SIM card may be inserted in a mobile device such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device in order for the multi SIM multi standby communication device to properly access a corresponding network. The SIM card may be connected to the multi SIM multi standby communication device via the SIM card controller .

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store information such as executable instructions and data that may be utilized by the processor unit and or other device components such as for example the SIM database . The SIM database may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to record and or store SIM identification information retrieved from one or more SIM cards such as the SIM cards . The stored SIM identification information may be in an active state or in a standby state within the SIM database . For a given time instant only SIM identification information in an active state may be actually utilized or applied by the multi SIM multi standby communication device to support desired network services such as accounting billing services. Depending on device configuration for a given time instant SIM identification information in an active state may correspond to one or more SIM cards. The memory may comprise RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage.

In an exemplary operation a multi SIM multi standby communication device such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device may be connected or coupled to multiple SIM cards such as the SIM cards through the SIM card controller . The processor unit may be operable to retrieve SIM identification information from the SIM cards . The retrieved SIM identification information may be stored in the SIM database . In instances where the multi SIM multi standby communication device is configured to operate in a multi standby mode the communication processor may communicate with the SIM database to activate the stored SIM identification information corresponding to multiple SIM cards such as the SIM cards at the same time. More specifically the multi SIM multi standby communication device in a multi standby mode may utilize SIM identification information activated for the SIM cards at the same time. A user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device may therefore be allowed to receive services related to the SIM cards at the same time. The communication processor may run the VMF over the single radio resource unit to handle traffic through the wireless radio unit . Radio resources available in the single radio resource unit may be shared among the VMs in the VMA . At most one of the VMs may be scheduled in the active state to transmit and or receive traffic related to a corresponding SIM card. The VMA may be configured to suspend one or more VMs to ensure an uninterrupted radio resource usage by a VM related to a specific SIM card such as the SIM card when needed. The suspended one or more VMs may be resumed so as to continue normal idle mode activities such as for example paging reception decoding serving cell measurements and or neighbor cell measurements whenever radio resources in the single radio resource unit become available for sharing by the suspended VMs. In this regard the resumed VMs may be operable to monitor paging events to check incoming traffic and concurrently perform idle mode procedures such as cell selection reselection by sharing radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . The communication processor may communicate received traffic with the application processor . The application processor may be operable to run various applications such as video and or audio multimedia applications according to the received traffic and present to users through the user interface unit .

The MMI module may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide interaction between a user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device and one or more applications that are executed on the multi SIM multi standby communication device .

The SIMIO module may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage access to SIM cards such as the SIM cards .

The VMF may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide an enhancement to the Real Time Operating System. The VMF may be deployed or implemented on the communications processor

A VM such as the VM refers to an instance of an air interface protocol stack and or its interface to the user namely a Common Application Programming Interface CAPI together with a single set of radio resources such as radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . A VM such as the VM may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to handle instances namely CAPI tasks and or air interface protocol stack instances associated with one of the SIM cards . Different VMs such as the VM and the VM may be configured to handle instances corresponding to two different SIM cards. For example the VM may handle instances related to the SIM card while the VM may be assigned to handle instances related to the SIM card . The plurality of VMs such as VMs may be configured to share the same set of radio resources namely available radio resources in the single radio resource unit . In this regard multiple copies of global and static data may be maintained to be utilized by the VMs respectively. A VM such as the VM may operate independently from other VMs and may be in one of the plurality of VM states namely an active state an idle state and a suspended state. The VM may comprise a CAPI task unit a VCC an air interface protocol stack together with the single radio resource unit . CAPI and or stack operations within the VM may be managed via the VCC .

The CAPI task unit may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to process MMI or user requests. The CAPI task unit comprises CAPI tasks related to a specific SIM card such as the SIM card .

A VCC such as the VCC may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform admission control with the VMC for the CAPI module at the primitive levels. The VCC is a dual instance module for managing its own task or instance and queuing messages. The VCC may be operable to interact with the VMC for radio resource requests associated with CAPI tasks in the CAPI task unit . The VCC may communicate with the air interface protocol stack to coordinate stack operations corresponding to the CAPI tasks in the CAPI task unit .

An air interface protocol stack such as the air interface protocol stack may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide air interface protocols to support various signaling operations. For example in 3GPP standard the stack may comprise Non Access Stratum NAS protocols and Access Stratum AS protocols to handle bearer level signaling and Radio Resource Control RRC signaling respectively.

The VMC may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to coordinate requests for the usage of radio resources available in the single radio resource unit among multiple associated VMs such as the VM and the VM . In this regard the VMC may be operable to resolve contention for radio resources by transitioning the VM and the VM between the three VM states. For example the VMC may be operable to ensure that at most one of the VM and the VM is in the active state for a given time instant. In this regard the VMC may suspend for example the VM from using or sharing radio resources available in the single radio resource unit in order to allow an uninterrupted radio resource usage by the VM . The suspended VM may be resumed whenever radio resources in the single radio resource unit become available for sharing by the VM to continue idle mode activities on the VM .

The VMC may be operable to coordinate the usage of the radio resources to support concurrent procedures initiated by the VM and the VM . For example the VM and the VM each may be granted by the VMC a portion of radio resources available in the single radio resource unit to concurrently monitor paging events and or to concurrently perform idle mode procedures or activities such as for example cell selection reselection by sharing the single radio resource unit .

The single radio resource unit may comprise suitable logic interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide PHY and RF support.

In an exemplary operation the MMI module may interact between a user of the multi SIM multi standby communication device and applications that are related to the SIM card and the SIM card for example inserted into the SIM card controller . Tasks or instances related to the SIM card and the SIM card may be handled by the VM and the VM respectively. The VMC may coordinate the usage of radio resources available in the single radio resource unit for sharing by the VM and the VM . For a given time instant at most one of the VM and the VM may be allowed to use the single radio resource unit . In other words for a given time instant at most one of the VM and the VM may operate in an active state to transmit and or receive traffic related to a corresponding SIM card. The VM and or the VM may be in an idle state whenever there is no intended traffic for corresponding SIM cards detected. In an idle state the VM and the VM may be operable to concurrently perform paging monitoring and or idle mode procedures such as cell reselecting by sharing radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . For example a VM such as the VM in the idle state may be operable to check or detect an incoming traffic related to the SIM card based on received paging messages. Upon detection of an intended traffic related to the SIM card the VM may remain in the idle state if traffic related to other SIM cards such as the SIM card is still being handled. Otherwise the VMC may transition the VM from the idle state to an active state in order to transmit and or receive the detected traffic related to the SIM card .

The VMC Ready state is a state that indicates that the VMC is ready to start processing admission control requests received from one or more VMs. The VMC Wait VM Activation state is a state that indicates that the VMC waits for responses from one or more VMs to confirm activities on the one or more VMs are suspended and radio resources previously allocated on the one or more VMs are released. The VMC Wait VM Resumption state is a state that indicates that the VMC waits for available radio resources in order to resume suspended one or more VMs.

The VMC Ready state may be set as a default state for the VMC . In the VMC Ready state the VMC may be ready to coordinate the usage of radio resources available in the single radio resource unit for sharing between the VM and the VM for example. The VMC may be configured to act upon an admission control request while in the VMC Ready state . The VMC may receive an admission control request that may be initiated by a request from a CAPI task or from an instance of an air interface protocol stack. In instances where the VM receives an admission request from for example the VM in an idle state to activate the VM the VMC may request the air interface protocol stack of the VM to suspend its ongoing activity and release the radio resources. While the confirmation from the air interface protocol stack of the VM is due for this action the VMC may transition from the VMC Ready state to the VMC Wait VM Activation state to wait for a response from the VM in order to confirm that on going activities on the VM are suspended and radio resource previously allocated on the VM are released. In instances where there is no conflict in allowing a new admission control request the VMC may transition from the VMC Wait VM Activation state back to the VMC Ready state . The VMC may save the admission control requests received in the VMC Wait VM Activation state and act upon the saved admission control requests when the VMC is back in VMC Ready state . This may ensure that the first admission request from an instance of CAPI or stack operation may be answered before responding to other subsequently received admission control requests.

In instances where a VM in an active state for example the VM indicates that it is no longer using the radio resources the VMC may request the air interface protocol stack of the VM to resume its idle mode activities such as cell selection reselection. While the confirmation from the air interface protocol stack of the VM is due for this action the VMC may transition from the VMC Ready state to the VMC Wait VM Resumption state to wait. In instances where there is no conflict in allowing a new admission control request the VMC may transition from the VMC Wait VM Resumption state stay back to the VMC Ready state . The VMC may save the admission control requests received in the VMC Wait VM Resumption state and act upon the saved admission control requests when the VMC is back in VMC Ready state . This again may ensure that the first admission request from an instance of CAPI or stack operation may be answered before responding to other subsequently received admission control requests.

In step in instances where the multi SIM multi standby communication device is not allowed to camp on the last camped cell then in step the VM may be operable to initiate a cell selection process to camp on a suitable cell. In step the VM may be operable to resume the normal idle mode activities on the selected cell. The exemplary steps may end in step .

In step the VM may send a suspend state confirm message to the VMC once confirmed by the single radio resource unit . The VM then enters into a suspended state. In step upon successfully suspending other VMs such as the VM from radio resource usage the VMC may send an active state confirm message to grant the VM the active state request. The VMC may inform the MMI module that the VM is suspended. In step the MMI module may suspend applications that are handled by the VM .

In step upon receiving the active state confirm message from the VMC the VM enters to an active state to transmit and or receive the detected intended traffic related to the SIM card . In step in instances where communication on the detected intended traffic related to the SIM card is complete the VM may send an idle state indication message to inform the VMC that the VM is no longer utilizing the radio resource and is returning to the idle state to perform the regular idle state procedures. In step after receiving the idle state indication from the VM the VMC may resume other suspended VMs such as the VM during admission control of the VM . The VMC may send a resume request message to the VM to continue its idle state activities.

In step upon receiving a resume request from the VMC the VM may send a resume request to the single radio resource unit indicating radio resource usages for normal idle mode activities. In step the single radio resource unit may be operable to provide information on neighbor cells available for the VM . In step the VM may be operable to select one or more strong neighbor cells from the available neighbor cells for normal idle mode activities. In step the VMC may send a resume indication message to the MMI nodule to continue application. In step the MMI module may be operable to continue the applications handled by the VM . In instances where a mobile originated service is required on the VM a MMI user message is sent to the VM . In step the VM may be operable to send an active state request to the VMC for radio resource usage to support corresponding intended traffic. The admission control process may continue as needed.

In various exemplary aspects of the method and system for multi standby operation for a multi SIM multi standby communication device a multi SIM and multi standby communication device such as the multi SIM multi standby communication device comprises a single radio resource unit such as the single radio resource unit . The single radio resource unit is shared by a plurality of VMs such as the VM and the VM in the VMA . The VMF is deployed over the single radio resource unit . Each VM is uniquely associated with a single one of a plurality of SIM cards such as the SIM cards that are coupled to the multi SIM multi standby communication device through the SIM card controller . The multi SIM multi standby communication device may be operable to concurrently handle traffic related to each of the SIM cards utilizing a corresponding one of VMs in the VMF . For example the VM and the VM may be responsible to handle traffic related to the SIM card and the SIM card respectively.

Radio resource available in the single radio resource unit may be shared by each of the SIM according to corresponding VM states namely an active state an idle state and a suspended state. For example the VMC may be configured to handle the usage of radio resources for VMs in an active state. VMs in a suspended state may not be allowed to use or share radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . Limited radio resources may be provided or allocated to VMs in an idle state to support idle mode activities such as location updating. In this regard in the idle state one or more VMs such as the VM and the VM may be operable to concurrently perform idle mode tasks and or procedures such as for example cell selection and or cell reselection. In addition in the idle state the VM and the VM may be operable to concurrently monitoring paging events related to the SIM card and the SIM card respectively. For example an intended traffic such as an incoming traffic related to the SIM card may be detected by the VM from paging messages received in the monitored paging events.

To ensure an uninterrupted radio resource usage on the VM the VMC may be operable to suspend the virtual modem which is not related to the detected intended traffic based on the radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . The VMC may signal the VM to transition from the idle state to an active state after the VM is suspended. In the active mode the VM may be operable to communicate the detected intended traffic utilizing radio resources available in the single radio resource unit . Once the communication is complete the VM may signal to the VMC to indicate that radio resources allocated to the VM is no longer needed. In this regard the VMC may then signal the suspended VM to resume the VM to continue idle mode activities and or tasks.

Other embodiments of the invention may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for multi standby operation for a multi SIM multi standby communication device.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

