---

title: Manufacturability evaluation of injection molded plastic models using a CAD based DFX evaluation system
abstract: A method of automatic manufacturability evaluation of plastic models comprises generation of a likely pulling direction, recognition of common features on plastic parts, and then applying manufacturability rules The manufacturability rules can be specified and customized through user specified rule parameters and depend upon the geometric parameters of the recognized features. A system comprises a user interface for selection and customization of DFX (Design for ‘X’) rules for evaluation of a design. The system includes a user interface integrated with a CAD system for receiving the CAD data and displaying the results to the user. Geometry analysis engines are integrated into the system, for extracting the various features and corresponding parameters required as input to the manufacturability rules. The system further involves extensible interfaces for rules and analysis engines which allows users to write their own customized rules and engines and integrate these into the CAD based DFX evaluation system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08219230&OS=08219230&RS=08219230
owner: Geometric Limited
number: 08219230
owner_city: Mumbai
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20100609
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 252 877 filed Oct. 19 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to computer aided design for various domains such as manufacturing assembly costing sustainability and more particularly to a method and system for automated manufacturability analysis of injection molded plastic models. This system applies to die cast models as well.

The following patents are incorporated herein by reference U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 038 issued Jul. 6 2004 entitled METHOD FOR RECOGNIZING BLENDS IN SOLID MODELS U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 451 issued May 9 2006 entitled METHODS USING SPECIFIC ATTRIBUTES AND GRAPH GRAMMARS IN GRAPH BASED TECHNIQUES FOR FEATURE RECOGNITION and U.S. Pat. No. 6 597 355 issued Jul. 22 2003 entitled AUTOMATIC RECOGNITION AND SUPPRESSION OF COMPLEX INTERACTING HOLES. 

Traditionally plastic part manufacturers receive Computer Aided Design CAD models or drawings from their clients and this is followed by a series of iterations during which the designs are modified taking into account ease of manufacturing and the tools available with the manufacturer. Many plastic part manufacturers have published guidelines related to designs when followed would lead to parts which are easy cost effective and amenable to rapid manufacturing. Certain vendors also allow designs to be uploaded on their website for providing quotes.

A problem faced by organizations world wide is how to reduce the time to market of a product. One of the areas of improvement is to reduce the back and forth design to manufacturing iterations. These iterations frequently occur due to various reasons design has certain features which lead to increased cost or the design has features which may require usage of non standard tools. For example if a designer applies non standard corner radii on a protrusion in a plastic model the manufacturing department may have to procure an appropriate tool to machine the corresponding depression feature in the mold.

Many organizations have established guidelines and checklists and have put a manual design review process in place to reduce such problems. However the lack of proper automation tools for evaluating the designs based on manufacturability parameters right in the designer s CAD environment poses difficulties in adoption and enforcement of the design review process.

Similarly organizations all over the world experience a phase where the experienced workforce gradually retires as new engineers enter the design department. In such cases the organization faces a significant loss of knowledge wherein best practices gained and lessons learnt over many years are lost. New design engineers lacking in experience on the manufacturing side often tend to ignore manufacturing considerations in their design. This leads to increased number of design iterations which impacts cost and time to market. There is a need to capture the best practices prevalent in an organization as rules in software so that any design can be validated against them consistently.

Research has shown that most of the costs associated with the life cycle of a product are committed during the design phase. The costs involved are not only related to manufacturing but include everything right up to the disposal of the product. In today s environment along with design for manufacturing DFM design for assembly DFA and design for cost design for maintainability and design for disposal are equally important the general term being Design for X where X can be any of the above. Vendors have traditionally concentrated on addressing the design for manufacturing and or design for assembly issues in software due to various reasons like demand and capability for automation. Even in the addressed domains most approaches have been driven by the manufacturing process with no or partial automation.

In the mechanical CAD environment most of the existing DFM DFA solutions are based on calculating the costs associated with manufacturing and or assembly of the product. These solutions are either based on activity roll up activity based costing or feature roll up feature based costing . To arrive at a useful cost figure these solutions require that the cost parameters like tool cost labor rates and several others be customized according to local factors. These factors also vary based on manufacturing process. In parallel small and large organizations world wide have been working with quick win kind of DFM approaches which involve usage of global or organizational best practices or guidelines which are tried and tested and suited to the organizational methods of operation. It also involves design and manufacturing departments working together and creating and following the best practices or guidelines.

Both approaches have their pros and cons. A cost based approach ensures a mathematical precision to decision making during design of parts. However organizations share many costs across products distributing these costs between the products may prove difficult in many cases. Not many of these solutions are integrated with CAD environments making these solutions difficult for a designer to practice and use on a continuous basis. Additionally many design features may not affect cost directly but have an indirect impact in terms of quality of the product. This impact is not captured by many costing software.

A manual best practice oriented DFM approach delivers knowledge and experience based wins but human errors during reviews present challenges. Another problem which manufacturers worldwide are trying to address is knowledge and best practice retention taking into account the ageing workforce and outsourcing of various parts of the manufacturing process.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention there is disclosed a method and system for automatically performing manufacturability analysis of injection molded plastic models. The method for evaluating ease of manufacturability for a three dimensional injection molded plastic computer aided design CAD model consists of using different program modules to generate a likely pulling direction identifying core cavity and undercut regions on the CAD model computing wall thickness parameters of the CAD model and wall thickness parameters of the corresponding mold identifying various form features like ribs bosses holes drafts pins snap fits and using the features and parameters to apply manufacturability rules stored in a rule database. According to the invention a likely pulling direction is identified as the most commonly occurring axis of the said boss features or a normal of the plane defined by the mid plane normals of the said rib features. Classification of the faces into core cavity and undercut regions is performed by firing rays along and opposite to the pulling direction and finding obstructions to these rays. Faces having obstructions only in negative pulling direction are core faces while faces having obstructions only in pulling direction are cavity faces. Faces having obstructions in both directions are classified as undercut faces. According to the invention wall thickness is computed by fitting tangential spheres in the triangulated model while mold wall thickness is computed by fitting tangential spheres external to the CAD model. Pins snap fit and hole features are recognized by using feature recognition algorithms and identified parameters are used to check manufacturability rules.

According to the invention the manufacturability analysis of injection molded plastic models is handled using computer aided DFX evaluation system which comprises a program for receiving rule related inputs from the user a rule file for inputs related to rules and a program for receiving the inputs of the CAD model applying the rules and displaying the results. The invention also provides a framework of extensible interfaces for users to write their analysis engines and rules. It also provided a set of application program interfaces APIs for automated processing. The invention also discloses a method for DFX evaluation which consists getting manufacturability feature information from the CAD model executing rules based on these features and displaying the results to the user. The extensible and customizable system used for manufacturability evaluation of injection molded plastic models can also be used for performing any DFX Design for X evaluation within a CAD system.

This system tries to address the limitations of both the cost based DFM systems and manual DFM approaches by providing an interface to the user for configuring the DFX rules. In addition the user can also add new rules as and when required depending on the design validation requirements. To generate input parameters required by the rules users can integrate their own analysis engines. An analysis engine is a piece of software which analyses the CAD model and generates the requisite information for rule processing. For example the generated information may be related to manufacturing features or thickness parameters or attribute information and so on. These functionalities can be easily implemented by extending the interfaces specified in this system. For basic and quick extensibility the system provides a script based interface wherein the user can quickly write rules by interfacing with the default engines as well as newly written customized engines and or CAD APIs in a seamless manner. The published interfaces for displaying the results of the DFX evaluation enable the user to display results of the customized extended rules using customized or default engines in the same result interface in a seamless manner.

Further features and advantages of the present invention will be set forth in or apparent from the detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof which follows.

Existing techniques for DFX evaluation are mainly manufacturing and assembly driven are cost based and not easily extensible to address other DFX requirements or automate the DFM practices referred to by an organization. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a system automatically evaluates the manufacturability of injection molded plastic models.

Engine is an exemplary analysis engine used by the DFX evaluation system to extract data for analysis from a CAD model for example volumetric features pockets slots holes ribs bosses and corresponding parameters depth width height shape . Similarly Engine is another exemplary analysis engine for extraction of thickness related features nominal wall mold wall and corresponding parameters thickness clearance at various locations . EngineN may be applied to extract other features namely small faces and small edges. The engines to be actually utilized will depend upon the kind of DFX evaluation being undertaken. Database is an exemplary database from the plurality of databases used by the DFX evaluation system to extract tabular and relational data. Database may for example contain various materials and allowable parameters regarding to specific machining processes for example maximum hole depth to diameter ratio for a given material . Database may contain machine and tool parameters. Similarly DatabaseN may contain any other tabular data for example allowable nominal wall thickness for given materials or maximum bend radius based on materials. The Rule module is an exemplary rule module specified for DFX evaluation. The Rule module for example may consist of one rule which utilizes data number of holes in the CAD model and parameters hole depth and diameter provided by Engine and predefined tabulated values maximum hole depth to diameter ratio for a given material from Database to determine whether there are instances in the CAD model which violate a design rule guideline Maximum depth to diameter ratio of a hole should be less than a predefined value. The Rule module may also utilize the CAD system to extract material information regarding the CAD model. Similarly the rule implemented in Rule module may utilize the output of Engine as well as Engine for verifying another design guideline Ratio of rib thickness to nominal wall thickness should be less than a predefined value.

The DFX Framework module specifies various interfaces which can be extended by users to write their own analysis engines and customized rules. The DFX Framework module also comprises the rule engine which processes a rule file for determining the rule modules to be executed and their dependencies and hence the order of execution. The DFX Framework module also determines the engines to be executed depending on the rule requirements and performs the execution.

Referring now to the rule file can then be input to the DFX evaluation system using the DFX UI module for execution in the CAD system .

For example a Minimum Radius at Base of Boss rule is listed as a part of an Injection Molding Rules module . Each rule is configured by double clicking on the row listing the rule as shown in .

For example is a screen shot of another exemplary user interface screen of the DFX Rule Manager module for configuring a Mold Wall thickness rule . In this case the system allows for the rule to be defined in terms of minimum allowable value of mold wall thickness ratio with part wall thickness using check box or in terms of minimum allowable mold wall thickness as an absolute value using check box . In both these cases appropriate values can be set in corresponding text boxes.

Returning to the system allows for selection of rules to be executed through a checkbox to the left of every row listing a rule and then saving the selection as the rule file .

Referring now to all rules registered with the DFX Rule Manager module are available for execution. However only the user selected rules along with the corresponding set of parameters are saved to the rule file. Only these selected rules are executed when the rule file is input using the DFX UI module . The rule file is stored in a location selected by the user in a human readable format.

The first step executed by the DFX Framework module is parsing the rule file and determining the rules relevant for the current execution. This includes checking if the category of the rule matches the selected part type manufacturing process . For each rule the rule validator module is located using the rule module file name for example and in and loaded in memory. The rule validator module determines the data it needs to validate the rules and thereby the analysis engines required to generate that data which are also located and loaded in memory. Subsequently each rule is executed and checked for failure or pass criterion based on the preset rule parameters. For example consider rule related to validation of Minimum Radius at Base of Boss . The rule validator module determines that it needs the blend recognition engine to extract fillet parameters associated with the boss. The part is processed using the blend recognition engine and appropriate parameters for example the fillet radii are extracted. The rule validator module then checks the fillet radii against the minimum acceptable value specified in the rule parameters. If this condition fails this particular instance is listed as a failure instance against this rule. The framework APIs can then be invoked to set the entities to be displayed to the user when this instance for example Instance is selected in the results area. See .

The system also provides application programming interfaces APIs such that the DFX evaluation system can be invoked in a non interactive mode with a CAD file and the rule file as inputs. The DFX evaluation system completes the feature recognition and rule processing steps and on user input generates report of the execution in either a human readable format or optionally a 3D report format using 3D publishing capabilities provided by CAD vendors.

For identifying ribs a feature recognition algorithm identifies a pair of edges belonging to a same face in a model which are offset by a distance not exceeding a preset value. Each of such edges must be convex with an angle between the neighboring faces nearing ninety degrees. Fillets are ignored while determining neighbors.

To identify core cavity and undercut regions initially vertical and non vertical faces are determined. Faces are termed as vertical if they satisfy the following criteria face normals at sufficiently sampled points lie in a single plane whose normal is perpendicular to the pull direction.

The core area cavity area and undercut area for each face are computed as a sum of areas of the correspondingly classified triangles. is a flowchart of a method for classification of individual faces into core cavity and undercut faces. Faces are input to the classification process. Step S is computing core cavity and undercut area for each face as sum of areas of corresponding face triangles with those classifications. Step S checks if the percentage of undercut area for a face is greater than a user defined threshold limit for example 1 5 which is a preset value based on material properties and geometry of the model If the result is affirmative Step S is executed and the face is marked as an undercut face. If step S provides a negative result step S is executed to check whether core area is greater than cavity area. If the result is affirmative step S marks the face as a core face else the face is classified as a cavity face through step S.

An undercut region consists of adjoining sets of faces wherein the triangles of the corresponding faces result in hit triangles in both directions.

A vertical face completely surrounded by core faces is marked as a core face. If a vertical face is completely surrounded by cavity faces it is marked as a cavity face. Other vertical faces are marked as ambiguous faces.

Ambiguous faces are handled as follows Vertical faces visible on the external boundary of the model when viewed opposite to the pulling direction and not classified as undercuts are classified as cavity faces such as face shown in and . Similar ambiguous faces forming internal boundaries are classified as core faces.

Measurement of mold wall thickness is actually the measurement of clearance or air gap between two walls or faces of the component. Clearance is measured by externally fitting a rolling sphere between two faces and the distance between two contact points of sphere on the faces is measured as the clearance between two faces.

As shown in the faces of a model are tessellated into small triangles. A center of each triangle is considered as a reference point for a measurement of clearance. Thus the clearance is measured for all triangles for a particular face.

A rolling sphere is considered such that the triangle forms a tangent surface to the sphere and sphere is external to the CAD model the normal of the triangle passes through the center of the sphere. The sphere is grown in diameter until it touches any other triangle. As soon as a first hit is encountered the distance between the points of contacts at the source triangle and the hit triangle is measured as the clearance between the two triangles.

As shown in mold wall thickness is measured between two triangles only if normals of the triangles form a sharp angle for example angle between them as in the triangles of face and face . If angle between two triangles is less than or equal to a threshold value specified by user mold wall thickness is computed else such triangles are ignored as in the triangles of face and face and corresponding angle .

Triangles are input to the mold thickness computation process as shown in . For computing mold wall thickness at any location for example centroid of a triangle under consideration the first step S is to fit a sphere of a certain radius r r 0 such that it is tangent to the triangle created at that location. Triangles are created such that their normals are away from material. The sphere is fit such that it lies on the same side of the triangle normal. If the sphere is tangent to any other triangle i.e. an affirmative result of step S then another step S is applied to check if the angle between the triangle normals is less than a preset value. If step S gives an affirmative result the step S is applied and the mold wall thickness at that location is computed as the distance between the contact points of the sphere and the two triangles. If step S provides a negative result step S is applied and mold wall thickness is not computed at that location. In case step S gives a negative result the sphere radius is increased by a small amount x x 0 as shown in step S. Step S checks if the new sphere radius is less than minimum required mold wall thickness. If the result is affirmative step S is repeated. The above steps are repeated for every triangle in Triangles .

In response to user inputs the DFX evaluation system can set a minimum threshold value for allowable mold wall thickness on a model. If the mold wall thickness for any triangle is less than the value set by the user then the region is displayed to the user for design reconsideration.

Optionally the mold wall thickness computation may also consider the height of the mold from the nominal wall at the point of measurement of mold wall thickness. This height along the pulling direction can be obtained by computing the distance along the negative pulling direction starting from the point of measurement of mold wall thickness to a hit cavity triangle.

As shown in a locating or supporting pin on a plastic model is used to provide a support or provide a location point during assembly. A pin feature consists of a central boss feature without any holes supported by ribs to provide stiffness. Thus the locating or supporting pin forms a webbed boss kind of feature. The supporting ribs may or may not start from the tip of the locating or supporting pin . In case the supporting ribs are not starting from the tip of the locating or supporting pin the tip of the locating or supporting pin should have adequate fillets.

To check the design parameters of a pin feature one must identify the webbed boss and associated fillets. The fillets of each webbed boss can be recognized using a blend recognition algorithm disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 038. These fillets can then be checked for minimum radius criteria. Additionally webbed bosses can also be recognized by using the feature recognition algorithm using graph grammars disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 451.

Using the technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 451 the 451 patent illustrates the graph grammar based representation of a family of webbed bosses with a variable number of supporting ribs with a common top face. This figure shows the graphical representation of particular instance of this family with four supporting ribs. The starting symbol is a graph with one node representing the top face of the webbed boss connected to a fillet face represented by and a pair of vertical opposite rib faces represented by nodes and and the remaining rib face represented by . The target symbol consists of an additional pair of opposite rib faces and rib end face and fillet face which is connected to the common top face and the three rib faces. During recognition the start symbol is first matched in the part. The rule is then applied repeatedly to collect all ribs connected to the top face as per the recognition method detailed in the 451 patent . Attributes like edge convexity parallelism and perpendicularity checks are used to restrict the candidate instances for example the two rib faces and will always be parallel to each other top face and rib end face will be perpendicular and so on.

Once the DFX evaluation system identifies the feature the DFX evaluation system checks the design parameters such as number of ribs and fillet radii to ensure adherence to manufacturability guidelines.

Snap fit features provide economical quick and easy assembly methods. Hence their use is increasing thereby replacing mechanical fasteners. Snap fits can be designed for permanent fastening or for repeated disassembly. Snap fit features are an environmentally friendly form of assembly because of their easy disassembly. These features need more attention during the design stage compared to other mechanical fasteners. If not designed properly these may fail during assembly or operations.

Many snap fit designs are possible however the most popular are a cantilever snap fit part see and a cylindrical annular snap fit part see .

Parameters of the cantilever snap fit part as shown in can be standardized depending on various materials geometry parameters and loads. Based on the defined rules for example as shown in the DFX evaluation system flags designs not adhering to recommended guidelines for reconsideration.

The DFX evaluation system automatically recognizes such features using various analysis engines for example as shown in . An exemplary feature recognition algorithm employed for such shapes is described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 451 the 451 patent which discloses how graph grammars can be used to recognize features on CAD models.

The DFX evaluation system applies a graph based feature recognition method as described in the 451 patent to define a face set for the snap fit feature which is then stored as an attributed graph. The DFX evaluation system uses the attribute graph for identifying similar features in a CAD model appropriately converted to an attributed graph structure.

The DFX evaluation system then uses this information as detailed in the 451 patent to store the feature shape in an xml file which is then loaded on request and parsed to construct the feature template. The DFX evaluation system then uses the feature template to recognize snap fit features.

Once the DFX evaluation system recognizes a snap fit feature the DFX evaluation system uses geometric and topological properties of the associated faces and edges to extract distances H D W and angles A B as shown in . The DFX evaluation system then uses these parameters as parameters to the rules to check whether the snap fit is designed as per recommended guidelines.

The DFX evaluation system automatically recognizes hole features using for example a hole recognition algorithm as described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 597 355 the 355 patent .

Once the DFX evaluation system recognizes holes and hole parameters such as axis depth diameter and taper angle using the 355 patent rules such as minimum distance of hole from edge of model minimum allowable distance between holes minimum supported hole diameter and desired ratio of hole diameter to hole depth can be verified using the hole parameters and provided CAD APIs.

For model wall thickness and mold wall thickness checks the DFX evaluation system primarily considers the nominal wall since protrusions from the nominal wall like ribs bosses and pins are thinner. To consider these variations the DFX evaluation system uses the recognized feature information to filter the rule results thus allowing only variations in the nominal wall to be reported. Additional checks include usage of core and cavity classification. For checking model wall thickness the DFX evaluation system considers only that pair of triangles for further checks wherein one triangle belongs to core and the other triangle belongs to cavity region. For checking mold wall thickness the DFX evaluation system considers only that pair of triangles wherein both triangles belong to either a core region or a cavity region.

One difference between creating a model using injection molding versus creating the same model using machining is that the machining volumes are reversed. This is primarily because in the case of injection molding the mold is machined. Hence a rib in a model becomes a pocket in the mold. Consequently the DFX evaluation system considers the mold machining aspect in the manufacturability aspects for injection molding. Sharp corners non standard fillet radii applied on features or too deep pockets may necessitate procurement of special tools or may require adoption of more expensive processes like EDM electro discharge machining .

The DFX evaluation system identifies sharp corners in a model by using edge convexity information of the model edges. The DFX evaluation system identifies fillets and chamfers using a fillet recognition algorithm disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 038. The DFX evaluation system considers only those linear edges and extruded fillets which are not perpendicular to the pulling direction.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

