---

title: Methods and apparatuses for bone restoration
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for restoration of human or animal bone anatomy, which may include introduction, into a bone of an expansible implant capable of expansion in a single determined plane, positioning the expansible implant in the bone in order to correspond the single determined plane with a bone restoration plane and opening out the expansible implant in the bone restoration plane. A first support surface and a second support surface spread tissues within bone. The embodiments of the invention may also include injecting a filling material around the implant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09408707&OS=09408707&RS=09408707
owner: Vexim SA
number: 09408707
owner_city: Balma
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20101103
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 150 676 filed on Jun. 9 2005 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 951 766 filed on Sep. 29 2004 which claims priority to French patent application No. 04 06211 filed on Jun. 9 2004 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of surgery and medical implants and more particularly to devices and methods for restoring human or animal bone anatomy using medical bone implants.

Various causes can be at the root of bone compression in particular osteoporosis which causes for example natural vertebral compression under the weight of the individual but also traumas with the two causes occasionally being combined. Such bone compressions can affect the vertebrae but also concern other bones such as the radius and the femur for example.

Several vertebroplasty techniques are known for effecting a vertebral correction i.e. to restore a vertebra to its original shape or a shape similar to the latter. For example one technique includes the introduction of an inflatable balloon into a vertebra then introducing a fluid under pressure into the balloon in order to force the cortical shell of the vertebra and in particular the lower and upper vertebral plateaus to correct the shape of the vertebra under the effect of the pressure. This technique is known by as kyphoplasty. Once the osseous cortical shell has been corrected the balloon is then deflated and withdrawn from the vertebra in order to be able to inject a cement into the cortical shell which is intended to impart sufficient mechanical resistance for the correction to have a significant duration in time.

A notable disadvantage of the kyphoplasty method resides in its numerous manipulations in particular inflation and in the necessity to withdraw the balloon from the patient s body. Furthermore the expansion of a balloon is poorly controlled because the balloon s volume is multi directional which often causes a large pressure to be placed on the cortical shell in unsuitable directions. Such large pressures risk bursting of the cortical shell and in particular the lateral part of the cortical shell connecting the lower and upper plateaus of a vertebra.

Other vertebral implants exist which are intended to fill a cavity in a vertebra. Such implants however generally adopt a radial expansion principle obtained by formation of a plurality of points which stand normally to the longitudinal axis of the implant under the effect of contraction of the latter. Such implants impose too high a pressure on individual points which may pierce the material on which the points support. Furthermore similar to kyphoplasty very high pressure can cause bursting of the tissues or organ walls such as the cortical shell for example. Furthermore the radial expansion of some implants does not allow a particular expansion direction to be favoured.

Embodiments of the present invention reduce the above noted disadvantages and provide additional advantages over the prior art devices of bone restoration. More particularly some embodiments of the present invention include methods for restoration of human or animal bone anatomy and include one or more of the following steps 

The method according to some embodiments of the invention allows the creation of a reinforced structure resulting in a solid structure i.e. the implant incorporated by a hardened filling material thanks to the expansion of the implant . Moreover the filling material can be injected under relatively low pressure since the implant remains in place which enables the preservation of the dimensions of the corrected bone structure.

It is another feature of an embodiment of the present invention that the expansible implant may be expanded opened out in the bone restoration plane to a determined value between a minimum thickness of the implant before any expansion and a maximum thickness of the implant after maximum expansion. Such a feature allows the expansion value of the implant to be controlled for example for a given vertebral correction.

Another advantageous feature of an embodiment of the present invention includes the opening out of the expansible implant by opening out first and second opposite plates forming respectively first and a second support surfaces for the bone. Such a feature allows the pressure which is exerted by the implant on the tissues in contact with the latter to be reduced by increasing the contact or support surface on the tissues.

The length of the implant may also be sized to be substantially equal to at least one of the first and second support surfaces in the bone. Such a feature allows optimization of a ratio of the support length on the tissues to the length of the implant. For example the closer this ratio is to one the more the implant will be usable in places requiring a small length. Moreover this feature also allows the introduction of a filling material with low injection pressure in one embodiment the injection pressure is the lowest possible so as to avoid having the filling material be injected into inappropriate tissues such as blood vessel walls for example .

In another embodiment of the invention each of the first and second plates may form partially cylindrical support surfaces one portion of which may be parallel to a longitudinal axis of the expansible implant.

In another embodiment of the present invention the opening out first and second plates includes raising the latter using one or more supports under the plates. Such a feature allows a ratio of the length of the support surfaces to the length of the implant to be increased to be as close to one 1 as possible as will be explained in more detail further on with the description of an embodiment of the invention. Furthermore this feature allows thrust forces to be distributed under the plate in order to reduce the cantilever.

A filler cement may be injected in an around the implant so as to aid in compressive load with the implant in bone restoration. Cements that may be used with the implants according to the disclosed embodiments may include an ionic cement in particular a phosphocalcic cement an acrylic cement or a compound of the latter. Accordingly the combination of the implant and the cement is not unlike a steel reinforced concrete structure in the construction of buildings.

In one embodiment of the present invention an expansible implant for bone restoration is presented and may include a single plane of expansion intrinsic to the implant where upon the single plane of expansion corresponds to a bone restoration plane and first and second opposed plates respectively form first and a second bearing surfaces for the bone. The first and second plates are intended to move away one from the other according to the single plane of expansion at the time of the expansion of the implant. The implant may also include first and second supports for each of the first and second bearing surfaces located under each plate respectively and means for controlling expansion of the implant. The controlling means may include a material web provided between each support and a corresponding plate having a determined thickness which controls expansion of the implant. Moreover one or more implants may be used in a single bone to produce a more symmetrical bone restoration see .

Accordingly additional embodiments of the present invention may also include control means for controlling a determined expansion value between a minimum thickness of the implant before any expansion of the latter and a maximum thickness of the implant after its maximum expansion.

The implant may also preferably include a means for positioning the expansible implant in bone in order to make the expansion plane of the implant correspond substantially with a bone restoration plane. Such means may include an engagement means allowing angular orientation of the implant about the longitudinal axis including flat surfaces for attachment with an implant carrier and threaded engagement.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a system for bone restoration and may include at least one expansible implant having a single plane of expansion for corresponding to a bone restoration plane a first tube for positioning adjacent an exterior surface of a bone for restoration and a first rod having a threaded end for affixing into a distal end of the interior of the bone where the first rod being received within the first tube. The system may also include a second tube for receiving the first tube therein and a third tube for receiving the second tube where the third tube including one or more engagement members for anchoring the third tube on the exterior surface of the bone. The system may further include a drill for establishing an enlarged opening in the side of the bone where the drill is guided by the first rod and a medical insertion device for inserting an expansible implant into a patient.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a medical insertion device for inserting an expansible implant into a patient. The device may include a gripping portion having a central bore a first tube housed in the central bore a threaded rod housed in the first tube having a distal end for receiving an implant for insertion into the patient a handle attached to the gripping portion and or the implant carrier and a gauge for determining an expansion of the implant.

Still other features advantages embodiments and objects of the present invention will become even more clear with reference to the attached drawings a brief description of which is set out below and the following detailed description.

As shown in implant may include a cylindrical shape with a transverse circular exterior section and can be manufactured of biocompatible material for example titanium into a tubular body using lathe laser and or electro erosion manufacturing techniques cast manufacturing may also be used . The implant may also include a first end and a second end each respectfully adopting the shape of a transverse section of the tubular body. The ends are preferably intended to be brought towards one another to allow the opening out expansion of the implant as represented in . Accordingly the two ends are connected to each other by a first which also may be referred to as upper arm and second which also may be referred to as lower arm rectilinear arm which are parallel when the implant is not opened out and formed longitudinally in the tubular body and are able to be folded under the first and second opposite plates as an the effect of bringing the ends and one towards the other while also distancing the first and second opposite plates from the longitudinal axis of the tubular body.

As represented in in order to allow the arms and to be opened out in a single expansion plane passing through the longitudinal axis of the tubular body the arms and are preferably diametrically opposed. In that regard the arms may be formed from a transverse recess of the tubular body traversing the tubular body throughout and extending over the length of the tubular body between the two ends and of the implant . As represented in the arms connecting the two ends and respectively adopt a transverse section bounded by a circular arc of the exterior surface of the tubular body. Chord defines the circular arc and may be included in the wall to form recess . The recess may be symmetrical with respect to the longitudinal axis .

Each arm may be divided into three successive rigid parts which may be articulated together in conjunction with the ends and as follows. With respect to the upper arm a first rigid part is connected at one end to end by means of an articulation . The other end of rigid part is connected to a first end of a second adjacent central rigid part by means of an articulation . The second rigid part may be connected at a second end to the third rigid part by means of an articulation . The other end of the third rigid part may be connected to end by means of an articulation . Preferably the articulations and may include one degree of freedom in rotation acting respectively about axes which are perpendicular to the expansion plane . Preferably articulations and are formed by a thinning of the wall forming the arm in the relevant articulation zone as represented in see also e.g. reference numerals and .

Each arm opens out such that the central rigid part moves away from the longitudinal axis of the implant pushed by the two adjacent rigid parts and when the ends and of the implant are brought one towards the other. As represented more particularly in in order to initiate the movement of the arm in the correct direction when the ends and are brought towards the other it is preferable to establish a suitable rotation couple of the various parts of the arm.

Accordingly ends of rigid parts of upper arm may be articulated with ends and respectively via a material web formed on the rigid parts. Other ends of rigid parts may also be articulated with the central rigid part via a material web formed on rigid parts . The displacement of the articulations establish a rotation couple on the rigid parts and when a force is applied to bring the ends and together along the longitudinal axis of the implant. This displacement tends to make the rigid part pivot towards the exterior of the implant as a result of moving the central rigid part away from the longitudinal axis .

The lower arm may be constructed in a similar manner as the upper arm and is preferably symmetrical to the upper arm with respect to a plane which is perpendicular to the expansion plane passing through the longitudinal axis .

Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention the articulations between the upper and lower arms and corresponding rigid parts are preferably formed by weakened zones produced by grooves . The grooves define a thin web of material i.e. material web formed from the tubular body the thickness of which may be determined by the depth of the grooves as represented in the figures in order to allow plastic deformation of the material without breaking. Specifically the rigid parts and of the upper arm and their symmetrical ones on the lower arm can adopt a position termed extreme expansion in which the intended rigid parts are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the implant when the ends and are brought one towards the other such that the latter is opened up until its maximum expansion capacity resulting in plastic deformation of the corresponding material. The width of the grooves are preferably pre determined to allow such a clearance of the parts of the upper and lower arms and also to impart a suitable radius of curvature to the webs in order to ensure plastic deformation without rupture of the material.

The first and second opposite plates may be formed in the upper and lower arms. With respect to the upper arm for example plate may be formed by the central rigid part and by material extensions rigid parts and extending out both sides thereof. In order to produce the plate rigid parts and are separated from the upper arm using a pair of transverse slots and which extend longitudinally over the length each respective end part see . Articulations and and rigid parts and form respectively a first and a second support for the first plate. The same applies to the second plate by symmetry.

Hence the first and second plates may comprise respectively a first and a second cantilever wing the respective attachment zones of which are situated at the level of the first and second supports. As represented in the first and second cantilever wings may include a length corresponding substantially to the maximum displacement value of one of the first or second plates in the single expansion plane .

The first and second plates form first and second support surfaces respectively each having a length which may be substantially equal to the length of the implant and which may be displaced perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis during expansion. According to one embodiment of the invention since the implant is formed in a tubular body the first and second plates form respectively curved support surfaces which are preferably parallel to the longitudinal axis .

The means for positioning the expansible implant in a bone which allow the expansion plane to correspond with a bone restoration plane may include an engagement means which allows for the angular orientation of the implant about longitudinal axis . For example such means may include flat surfaces which are formed on the cylindrical surface with a circular section of end which may allow for rotational engagement of the implant .

The means for opening out the expansible implant in a single expansion plane may include rigid parts and of upper arm and the corresponding symmetrical rigid parts on the lower arm allowing opening out of the first and second plates. An implant carrier see may be used to allow the ends and of the implant to be brought together when placed within the bone. The implant carrier by being supported on the end for example allows the end to be pulled toward end or by being supported on end end is pushed toward end . To this end the distal end for example comprises an opening distal orifice threaded along the longitudinal axis in order to allow the engagement of the implant carrier which includes a corresponding threaded portion. The proximal end may include a bore along the longitudinal axis in order to allow the passage of a core of the implant carrier as will be explained further on.

A control means may be provided by the implant carrier which may include a millimetric control means for bringing ends and together preferably by means of screw thread engagement allowing the expansion to be stopped at any moment as a function of requirements. On the other hand control means provided by the articulations of the arms and more specifically by the thickness of the material webs defining each arm which deforming in the plastic region allow the expansion to substantially preserve a determined opening up position of the arms apart from elastic shrinkage which is negligible in practice.

The expansion of the plates and of the implant and their stabilisation once opened up can be achieved through adaptation of plates and to the bone geometry by the plates. Specifically in some embodiments of the invention the implant allows a non parallel displacement of plates and and at the end of the displacement allows a definitive position of the plates in a non parallel state if necessary e.g. as a function of the bone anatomy . For example the expansion of plates and may be non parallel if the lengths of individual support arms are different. For example if supports and are longer than supports and see opening out the implant will force plates and to angle away from each other. In this would result that plates and at end to be further apart one another then at end . As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate depending upon the configuration only one respective support need be lengthened shortened to obtain a particular angle.

Similarly as shown in when the four bar linkage comprising supports A B A B A B A B as shown are equal lengths i.e. length of A length of A length of B length of B etc. a parallelogram is then created upon expansion of the implant which insure parallelism between segments AD and BC . By modifying the lengths of L and L the four bar linkage is no longer a parallelogram but rather an angle between plate and occurs. The angle formed may also be dependent on how close ends and are drawn near to each other. As the implant is opened out the angle slowly increases.

The represented implant differs from the implant by the absence of the wing portion on the plates and as represented more particularly in . Implant includes a deformable parallelogram system on one of rigid parts or of each of the arms upper and lower . In the illustrated example the parallelogram system is represented on rigid part of upper arm connected to the end and the corresponding system on lower arm . The parallelogram systems may be used to ensure displacement of the plates of each of the arms and parallel to longitudinal axis of the implant. As represented in the figures the rigid part of the arm similarly on corresponding arm is split as are articulations and respectively over the central part and over the end of the implant in order to form a parallelogram which is deformable during displacement of the corresponding plate.

The articulations of the deformable parallelogram may be produced in the same manner as the other articulations of the arm as represented in . The disclosed geometry as explained above and represented in establishes force couples on the various parts of the arm. This allows for the desired displacements when bringing together ends and of the implant .

In order to obtain a deformable parallelogram the rigid part of the arm is preferably divided into three longitudinal levers two lateral levers and a central lever which form two sides of the deformable parallelogram . The two remaining sides of the parallelogram may be formed by an extension of the central part of the arm placed in an axis of extension of the central lever and by a double extension of the end extending parallel to the longitudinal axis of the implant and placed in the axis of extension of the two lateral levers see .

It is worth noting that arms and may be symmetrical with respect to a plane which is substantially perpendicular to the plane of expansion passing through the longitudinal axis of the implant in order to obtain during the expansion of the implant the displacement of the two plates and in a manner parallel to the longitudinal axis .

A first example of a method for human bone restoration according to one embodiment of the present invention using an expansible implant will now be described with reference to . It concerns more particularly a method for bone restoration of a vertebra via a posterolateral route with fracture reduction. Accordingly the method may include one or more and preferably all of the following steps. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the implant according to so embodiments of the present invention pushes though divides tissues in the interior of the bone so that the bearing surfaces of the implant preferably come into contact with the bone tissue for restoration.

An expansible implant expansible preferably in a single determined expansion plane intrinsic to the implant is introduced into a vertebra the shape of which is to be restored. To effect this operation a rod pin e.g. Kirschner pin type is placed percutaneously via the posterolateral route so that the threaded end can be affixed e.g. screwed into the cortical bone opposite the cortical bone which is traversed by the pin . The pin is received in a first dilation tube until an end of the first tube contacts e.g. may be supported the exterior surface of the cortical bone .

The first dilation tube is received by a second dilation tube until the end of the second tube comes into contact e.g. supported by the exterior surface of the cortical bone . The second dilation tube is further received by a third dilation tube which comes into contact e.g. is supported on the exterior surface of the cortical bone . Teeth on the end of the third dilation tube anchor the tube in the cortical bone .

The first and second dilation tubes as shown in are then removed leaving only the pin surrounded by tube which are separated from one another by tubular spacer . The proximal cortical bone and cancellous bone is then pierced by means of a drill for example guided by the pin as represented in . In one embodiment the cancellous bone is pierced as far as the distal third approximately then the drill may be withdrawn the pin may be withdrawn as well .

A proximal end of the implant is removably attached to a distal end of a hollow core preferably implant carrier which is then introduced into the core of tube as represented in . The implant may be removably affixed to the implant carrier via threaded engagement for example . Within the core of the implant carrier a rod see also reference numeral having a distal end which includes an engagement means to engage the distal end of the implant and which may also include an expanded proximal end larger than a diameter of the rod may be inserted. Similar to the affixation of the implant to the implant carrier the engagement means of the rod to the implant may be via threaded engagement.

The implant carrier as shown in includes a handling means for controlled movement of the rod relative to the implant carrier for example . The handing means may comprise a gripping block having a central bore through which the implant carrier is positioned and is held in place at least rotationally but preferably rotationally and linearly. In that regard a proximal end of the gripping member and the proximal end of the implant carrier are preferably flush. A handle according to one embodiment of the invention may be attached to the proximal end of either or both of the gripping member and the implant carrier but is preferably free to rotate relative thereto in either or both of the clockwise and counter clockwise directions. In still another embodiment of the invention the handle may not be attached to either or both of the gripping block and implant carrier. The handle may include a center opening which preferably includes internal screw threads of a predetermined thread pitch.

The rod which is received within the implant carrier preferably includes external threads corresponding in thread pitch to that of handle . A locking device slides relative to the gripping block and may include a pin which frictionally interferes with the rod to lock the rod in place i.e. no rotational movement .

The threads of the rod are preferably provided at least along a majority of the length rod. According to one embodiment of the invention the rod implant carrier gripping block and handle may be pre assembled. One would insert the threaded distal end of the rod into an opening in the center of the proximal end of the implant where it then may be received in the correspondingly threaded portion in the center of the distal end of the implant. The distal end i.e. the location of the implant of the assembly of the implant with the implant carrier handling means may then be inserted into dilation tube .

Depending upon the predetermined thread pitch and direction of the thread of the rod rotation of the handle moves the rod relative to the implant carrier linearly in a direction. Preferably the threads are provided on the rod such that clockwise rotation of the handle moves the rod outward away from an area in which the implant is to expand the implantation area . For example for an M5 thread a pitch of 0.8 mm may be used. However one of skill in the art will appreciate that a thread pitch of between about 0.5 mm and about 1.0 mm for example may be used. is a chart illustrating a no load expansion of an implant according to one of the embodiments of the invention by the number of turns of the rod for three particular sizes of implants.

Accordingly in view of the above embodiment once the implant is positioned within the dilation tube and slid down therein so that it is placed into the interior of the vertebra . The implant is preferably positioned such that the single expansion plane corresponds to the desired bone restoration plane . The position of the implant may be verified using any known imaging techniques including for example X ray and ultrasound.

The handle is then rotated to pull the rod away from the implantation area. Since the proximal end of the implant is butted up against the implant carrier and pulling on the rod causes the distal end of the implant to move toward the proximal end or visa versa . This results in the ends of the implant drawing towards each other which opens out the implant. More specifically opposite plates and are opened out advantageously forming respectively a first and a second support surface in the vertebra which surfaces may be continuous over their length which may be substantially equal to the length of the implant . In the course of the expansion control of the reduction of the fracture thanks to the millimetric control means and after having obtained the desired expansion for example of a determined value between a minimum thickness of the implant before any expansion of the latter and a maximum thickness of the implant after its maximum expansion then freeing of the implant carrier by unscrewing it from the implant then extraction of the tube as represented in with the implant in opened out position remaining in place in the vertebra .

Accordingly the expansion of the implant in the vertebra is achieved by support under the plates allowing the thrust force to be distributed over the length of the plates under the latter. Thus a sufficient length of the plates may be provided while limiting an excessive dimensioning of the thickness of the latter in order to resist flexion. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the implant according to some embodiments of the invention adopts a ratio of a spatial requirement in length un expanded to length of elevated plate which is extremely optimized allowing a preferable use of the limited intra osseous spaces with a view to fracture reduction for example.

The rod may also include according to one of the embodiments of the invention a disengagement means which may comprise an internal hex on the proximal end of the rod. This may allow one to disengage the rod from the implant once the implant has been opened out. Alternatively where the handle is not attached to the gripping block and or implant carrier the handle could be counter rotated i.e. rotated such that the rod does not move in a direction away from the implant such that it travels away from the flush portion of the gripping block and implant carrier such that it engages the proximal end of the rod. Further counter rotation of the handle after opening out of the implant causes the rod to rotate in the same counter rotation as the handle thereby causing the rod to disengage from the implant. Depending upon the determined thread pitch such disengagement can occur in any number of rotations e.g. less or more than one rotation . See also

Preferably after the rod has been removed a filling material is injected around the implant. The filling material may comprise for example an ionic cement in particular a phosphocalcic cement an acrylic cement or a compound of the latter with a view to filling in and around the implant. To accomplish this a needle of the injector is slid down tube until the end of the needle reaches the distal orifice of the implant . The filling material is then injected via the needle. Continued injection in a retrograde manner may be done up to a proximal orifice in cortical bone of the vertebra . The needle of the injector may then be withdraw from tube . A second example of a method according to an embodiment of the invention for restoration of human bone anatomy will now be described with references to . This example generally concerns a method for bone restoration of a vertebra by a transpedicular route with fracture reduction.

The second example is similar to the first and differs from the latter by the penetration route of the implant into the vertebra which is now accomplished in a transpedicular manner instead of the posterolateral route used in the first method. As a result only some steps of the second method have been represented in in order to show the different route used for the introduction of the implant into the vertebra. For elements identical to those of the first method example have the same numerical references and those figures correspond respectively to the steps of of the first method example. Concerning the step represented in the latter differs slightly from by the position of the needle of the injector closer to the distal end of the implant in .

It will thus be seen that the invention attains the objects made apparent from the preceding description. Since certain changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings be interpreted as illustrative and not in a literal sense and thus not limiting . Practitioners of the art will realize that the method device and system configurations depicted and described herein are examples of multiple possible system configurations that fall within the scope of the current invention.

