---

title: Policy based provisioning in a computing environment
abstract: A system and method for policy based provisioning in a computing environment. In an example embodiment, the system is adapted to selectively allocate usage rights and access privileges to computing resources of a computing environment. The system includes a provisioning policy; a centralized resource provisioning module; one or more applications in communication with the centralized resource provisioning module; and software running on the resource provisioning module, wherein the software is adapted to initiate selective provisioning of computing resources offered by the one or more applications to a user in accordance with the provisioning policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08397273&OS=08397273&RS=08397273
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08397273
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100211
---
This application relates in general to computing resource provisioning and more specifically to systems and methods for allocating resource usage rights and access privileges to users of a computing environment.

For the purposes of the present discussion a computing resource may be any computing entity characteristic or functionality. A computing entity may be any hardware and or software functionality or components employed by one or more computers to facilitate performing a function. Examples of computing entities include software applications hardware devices networks and so on. Examples of characteristics include communications link bandwidth processor speed data storage capabilities or allocations and so on. Examples of functionality include email access and functions Internet access and so on. Note that computing resources may include hardware resources such as memory central processing unit time and so on. Examples of software resources include email Customer Relationship Management CRM and Human Capital Management HCM software for providing human resource management functionality and so on.

Systems for allocating computing resource usage rights and access privileges are employed in various demanding environments and applications including enterprise employee intake processing government agent account setups university student account setups and so on. Such computing environments often demand efficient mechanisms for establishing new accounts e.g. email accounts for use with different software applications for setting up user privileges and access to software applications such as databases calendar software and so on.

Systems and methods for efficiently provisioning or allocating computing resource usage rights access rights and privileges are particularly important in enterprise environments. Such environments may include many applications and complex corporate provisioning policies which may periodically change. For example a corporate provisioning policy may require that a newly hired receptionist will have different privileges and access to a different set of computing resources than a newly hired corporate executive. The receptionist is said to have different roles than the corporate executive where the roles affect provisioning policies that are applied to the user.

Each software application in an enterprise computing environment may include various application specific settings that must be defined before a particular user can establish an account to access and or use the application. Such applications e.g. certain email applications or calendar applications may require only a role a username and or a password while other applications may require an administrator to perform a sequence of manual set up steps before a user can access functionality of the application.

An enterprise computing environment may include various users such as employees contractors suppliers customers partners etc. with different provisioning needs. The enterprise provisioning policy often must balance user provisioning needs with the requirements of each software application to be used by a given user.

Conventionally when an enterprise hires a new employee or acquires a new partner customer or supplier a tedious manual process is employed to establish email accounts set up access to particular databases register for access to various applications and functionality available on the corporate network obtain necessary approvals for registering certain accounts validate or authenticate user account information deliver account setup confirmations and so on. A similar process occurs when an employee customer partner etc. changes roles or must otherwise update their resource privileges. The manual process may include registering a given user with each individual application using the application s interface while simultaneously ensuring that the enterprise provisioning policy is being followed. Unfortunately this is not only costly and time consuming but may increase susceptibility to error and security breaches. This is particularly problematic in large enterprise systems that may need to periodically provision many applications and systems each time a new employee is hired a customer is added to a CRM database a provisioning policy is changed a new software application is deployed and so on.

Previous attempts to facilitate account registration and related provisioning processes involving multiple applications by standardizing the process have proven problematic since different businesses often have substantially different requirements application sets and corresponding provisioning needs. One approach involved configuring applications to call the same Application Programming Interface API to create an account. Unfortunately each application still relied upon different registration requirements which complicated the process of accommodating changes in the computing environment. Generally to account for changes in provisioning needs of an enterprise computing environment re coding retesting and redeploying of application components was required.

An example method for selectively provisioning computing resources for a user includes receiving a provisioning request pertaining to the user determining a context associated with the provisioning request referencing a provisioning policy to determine a set of predetermined policy rules to follow based on the context and propagating provisioning instructions to one or more applications in the computing environment in accordance with the rules where the provisioning instructions are adapted to initiate provisioning resources to a user in accordance with the policy rules.

In a more specific embodiment the user includes a newly hired employee. The method further includes enabling an administrator to adjust the provisioning policy thereby affecting what policy rules are followed in response to a given request such as a provisioning request for the newly hired employee. The method further includes receiving the provisioning request from one or more software applications in the computing environment where the provisioning request is received by a centralized software application included in the computing environment. The centralized software application is adapted to implement the method.

The novel design of certain embodiments disclosed herein is facilitated by use of policy driven provisioning notifications sent to applications or other computing resources in response to a desired account change or other change in the allocation of computing resources. This obviates the need to re code retest and redeploy components of applications or otherwise adjust computing resources when business flow or provisioning policies change.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of particular embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference of the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

Although the description has been described with respect to particular embodiments thereof these particular embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive.

For clarity certain well known components such as hard drives processors operating systems servers power supplies network adapters and so on have been omitted from certain figures. However those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings will know which components to implement and how to implement them to meet the needs of a given application.

For the purposes of the present discussion a computing environment may be any collection of interconnected computing resources. An example of a computing environment includes an enterprise computing environment which may include various computers networks and so on used by a particular business. A provisioning policy may be any set of instructions and or information indicating or affecting how resources should be or are to be provisioned in a computing environment. For example a provisioning policy may include logic instructions and rules specifying that a given user to be allocated resources should be allocated access to certain applications based on one or more roles associated with the user may specify how the user is to be notified of changes to associated resource allocations may specify what permissions must be obtained to enable creation of certain types of accounts for a given user or group of users may specify how certain newly added applications should be provisioned to certain users and so on.

The example system includes a centralized provisioning module in communication with computing environment applications and a user account repository which may be considered a type of application or resource. For the purposes of the present discussion an application may be any collection of hardware or software instructions adapted to implement predetermined functionality. Examples of applications include but are not limited to an Oracle Human Capital Management HCM email calendar and database applications.

For illustrative purposes the centralized provisioning module is shown including an interface which acts as an administrator interface which may be used by an administrator of the provisioning module to interact therewith such as by configuring or changing a provisioning policy of the provisioning module or submitting provisioning requests thereto. The provisioning module further includes a configurable provisioning policy that communicates with a provisioning request processing module . The provisioning request processing module includes an Application Programming Interface API and communicates with the interface the user account repository and the computing environment applications . For the purposes of the present discussion a module may be any collection or grouping of functionality which may include one or more applications.

The computing environment applications may include various applications such as HCM email calendar and database applications and so on which all may have provisioning needs. For the purposes of the present discussion an application is said to be provisioned for a user or to a user if an account for use of the application has been set up or if the user has otherwise established a way to access or use the application such as by registering appropriate passwords usernames and so on. Note that different applications may have different requirements for registering a user i.e. for enabling a particular user to have particular usage rights access privileges and so on upon identification and or validation of the user or validation of the information submitted by or on behalf of the user.

In the present example embodiment the various applications include respective local provisioning modules . The local provisioning modules may include built in functionality for facilitating registering i.e. provisioning functionality associated with a given application to a user in accordance with predetermined policy rules. For illustrative purposes information such as user login or registration information for a particular one of the applications is stored in one or more of the user accounts . Registration or provisioning of user accounts provides a user with particular usage and access rights to the corresponding application functionality . For the purposes of the present discussion application functionality may include any functions operations tasks data and so on that may be accessible to or usable by a user of the associated application.

The API is adapted to facilitate standardized communications between the centralized provisioning module and the applications . Such communications may include Service Provisioning Markup Language SPML Web Service interfaces Light Weight Directory Access Protocol LDAP interfaces Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP interfaces and so on. Exact details for the interfaces and types of messages sent between various modules of the system are application specific and may be changed or altered to meet the needs of a given implementation. Note that in an alternative implementation certain functionality associated with the API may be included as communications interfaces or adapters in the applications .

The user account repository may represent an application running on an LDAP server for hosting and listing information such as login information associated with the various user accounts of the applications . The applications may represent for example a suite of Oracle Fusion applications. To access the account for a particular user the user logs into a user LDAP account after the LDAP account has been provisioned for a user. In certain implementations the user LDAP account may enable a user to locate organizations individuals and other resources such as files and devices in a network.

The applications and the user account repository represent computing resources of the system which corresponds to a computing environment. For the purposes of the present discussion resources of a computing environment may be any functionality entity characteristic of the computing environment and so on. For example the resources of a computing environment such as those that might be allocated or provisioned to a particular user may include user accounts for particular applications e.g. email Internet access and so on the applications themselves usage rights for software applications access privileges to functionality or capabilities afforded by the computing environment the functionality itself and so on. A resource is said to be provisioned to or for a user if the user is registered with the application and has particular usage rights access rights and so on to use or access the resource. In addition a resource is said to be provisioned for or to a user if the user has otherwise been granted access to use a particular resource such as an application.

The provisioning module is said to be centralized. For the purposes of the present discussion a computing entity such as a provisioning system is said to be centralized in a computing environment if various applications or resources in the computing environment communicate with the entity to affect how the applications or resources communicate with or otherwise affect each other. For example a centralized provisioning system may be visualized as a choke point in communications flows through which communications pertaining to user provisioning operations flow and where the communications can be controlled and selectively manipulated to affect environment wide resource provisioning. The centralized provisioning module discussed herein may act as a provisioning controller to control provisioning requests by various computing entities e.g. software applications in the computing environment . Centralizing control over user resource provisioning in accordance with the present teachings may yield significant benefits e.g. may facilitate propagating provisioning requests may facilitate making changes to provisioning policies of the computing environment and so on as discussed more fully below.

In operation the centralized provisioning module facilitates centralized and configurable policy driven provisioning of resources including the applications to users of the system i.e. computing environment. Users of the system may include human resources managers newly hired employees corporate partners suppliers contractors customers and so on.

Use of the centralized provisioning module is particularly advantageous in demanding applications such as employee intake processing also called employee onboarding. In an example operative scenario a hiring manager in a human resources department may employ a Human Capital Management HCM program which may be included among the applications to initiate a provisioning request for the newly hired employee. The provisioning request is sent to the provisioning request processing module and the appropriate API functionality for the HCM application is activated.

For the purposes of the present discussion a provisioning request may be any message or set of messages with information or instructions pertaining to allocation of one or more computing resources. For example a provisioning request might specify creation of a new email account for a new employee. The context of the request may be a description of the employee e.g. manager executive etc. where the context may be associated with one or more roles. In the request itself user role information may correspond to the request context and a given context may be associated with plural different roles.

A provisioning change request may be any provisioning request that specifies one or more changes to resource allocations to a user where the user has already been allocated resources thereto by the accompanying system. A resource change request may be any provisioning change request applicable to a particular resource.

The provisioning request by the HCM application to provision resources for a newly hired employee is then processed by the provisioning request processing module with reference to the configurable provisioning policy . For example the provisioning policy may include logic that analyzes the incoming provisioning request message for context information role information and so on and then automatically initiates generation of user accounts or otherwise registers accounts with the applications for the new employee in accordance with the provisioning policy and the information included in the provisioning request. For example if the newly hired employee is a corporate executive as specified in the provisioning request the employee may be allocated certain accounts and resource access privileges by the provisioning module . If the newly hired employee is a receptionist the provisioning policy may necessitate that the provisioning module allocate a different set of accounts and application usage rights and access privileges than those granted for the corporate executive.

To initiate generation of the user accounts for a particular user the provisioning request processing module may employ the API to deliver messages such as callback messages to the one or more applications . The messages are adapted to facilitate creation of one or more user accounts in the one or more applications .

The provisioning request sent by the HCM module may include information associating the newly hired employee with certain roles where each role is associated with particular accounts to be provisioned to the employee. The provisioning policy may specify that certain roles are to be allocated certain accounts which are associated with particular resources and or applications. The HCM module may include predetermined logic for forming the provisioning request for a particular employee such as by assigning certain roles to the employee based on predetermined criteria. In addition the provisioning request processing module may be further adapted to facilitate account validation to obtain or verify necessary approvals from certain users for the provisioning of a particular resource to the employee to email or otherwise send a message to the newly hired employee to notify the employee which resources have been provisioned for the user and so on as discussed more fully below

Note that employee intake represents a particular example operative scenario. Other scenarios include provisioning resources to new customers partners etc. changing resources provisioned to a particular user and so on. The provisioning module is adapted to receive a provisioning request pertaining to any particular user and to provision one or more resources such as one or more accounts resource access rights or resource usage rights based on the provisioning policy and contents of the associated provisioning request.

In the present example embodiment the provisioning request processing module includes one or more routines i.e. computer executable code for implementing callback functionality to the various applications . For the purposes of the present discussion callback functionality may be any resource operations or capabilities that use callbacks.

The communications link between the provisioning module and external applications may be called a callback link. For the purposes of the present discussion a callback may refer to any message containing notification information or a query requesting notification information where the message is sent between one or more of the applications and the provisioning module . Notification information may be any instructions or information pertaining to the provisioning of one or more resources of the computing environment. For example one type of callback specifies or indicates a status of a provisioned resource.

For example a callback may be used to enable the provisioning module to notify one or more applications in the computing environment associated with the system that certain resources associated with the one or more applications are to be provisioned for a particular user. The provisioning request processing module employs callbacks to selectively interact with one or more of the software applications in the computing environment .

Certain predetermined provisioning policies as specified via the policy may specify that under certain conditions the provisioning module should call back an application to obtain additional information such as status information pertaining to a particular provisioning request. For example a certain policy may specify that for a particular provisioning request and request context that resource provisioning status information pertaining to a current provisioning state of one or more computing resources be checked. For example the provisioning module may check an email application to verify that a given user has not already been assigned an email account via the application. The provisioning module may adjust subsequent resource provisioning steps or may adjust previously provisioned resources based on status information retrieved via a callback message in accordance with the associated provisioning request and the provisioning policy .

As another example certain applications may request that the provisioning module use specific validation logic to validate information associated with a particular user such as a customer. This information may be provided to the provisioning module via a callback message.

By consolidating or centralizing the provisioning policy for the system in the centralized provisioning module changes thereto are more readily made. For example an administrator may employ the interface to change or configure the provisioning policy as needed to accommodate changes in enterprise provisioning policies without needing to modify adapters included in the applications . The provisioning policy may include customizable business behavioral logic.

For example if a new application is added to the applications an administrator may employ the interface to add a callback function to the provisioning request processing module so that when a provisioning request is received the new resources associated with new application may be provisioned to a user with reference to the provisioning policy and the provisioning request. Use of the interface to add or register new resources for use with the provisioning module may obviates the need to re code application adapters and so on to enable automatic provisioning of the new resource.

Various modules of the system may be implemented via various mechanisms such as web services eXtensible Markup Language XML files Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI registries and so on. Exact implementation details are implementation specific and may be readily determined by those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings without undue experimentation.

Note that various communications links indicated by lines and arrows in are for illustrative purposes. For example various components and modules of the system may intercommunicates in ways not shown or implied by the illustrative connecting lines.

In operation the policy logic may reference identity information such as roles associated with a particular user context e.g. manager executive partner customer and so on for a particular resource. The policy logic may further reference callback parameters which may identify various computing resources available for provisioning. The policy logic may further refer to existing account information which may specify accounts already provisioned for a particular user.

The policy logic includes code that may selectively employ contents of the modules to determine how resources should be provisioned in response to a particular provisioning request. A provisioning request may represent a request to provision a new user such as a newly hired employee or a newly acquired partner or may represent a change request to change resources provisioned to a preexisting user. Note that a user need not be limited to an individual person. For example a user may refer to particular groups of persons and so on.

In an example operative scenario if a newly hired employee has been assigned the context of a manager as determined with reference to the contents of a particular provisioning request the policy logic may refer to the identities module to determine which roles are associated with the particular context. For example a newly hired human resources manager may be allocated one or more roles that specify that the manager should have access to HCM software. The policy logic may then determine what if any permissions must be obtained before a given resource can be allocated to the newly hired manager. Such permissions may be obtained such as by initiating an automatic email message to an authorizing person or entity. If the newly hired manager is actually an existing manager that is being promoted to a different position the policy logic may employ the existing account information to determine what if any changes need to be made to resources provisioned to the manager.

If a new resource is added the policy logic may determine what resource was added by reference to the callback parameters then adjust provisioning messages sent to the applicable resources accordingly.

The above illustrative examples merely reference subset of the possible provisioning policies policy logic behavior information employed by the policy logic and so on. Various modules may be omitted modified incorporated into other modules and so on to meet the needs of a given implementation without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

The alternative centralized provisioning module may operate similarly to the customize provisioning module of . However in the present embodiment for illustrative purposes the provisioning module of is shown not including the interface of which may enable an administrator to change the software associated with the centralized provisioning module . Instead a basic administrator user interface is employed to modify a provisioning policy of the provisioning module and to manually enter provisioning requests to a request processing module of the provisioning module .

Furthermore the alternative centralized provisioning module is shown communicating with three example applications and additional computing resources . In addition in the present embodiment an API is not specifically shown in the provisioning request processing module as requisite interfacing functions for interfacing the applications are included in the applications as local provisioning module interfaces respectively. Furthermore the additional computing resources are interfaced with the provisioning module via respective local provisioning module interfaces .

The first example application may be an HCM software program which includes employee intake logic for assigning roles to particular employees. Employee context e.g. manager and role information e.g. manager type may be determined via the HCM application . Accordingly when the first application generates a provisioning request to the provisioning request processing module the provisioning request includes context and role information to be used by the provisioning request processing module with reference to the provisioning policy to determine how resources should be allocated to the employee. For example a newly hired employee may be provisioned an email account via the second application and may be provisioned database access via the third application in response to a request received by the provisioning module from the first application .

The second example application includes an email software application which employs a user account to enable user access to email functionality . The user account may be automatically provisioned by the provisioning module in response to a request by another computing resource such as the first application or the second application . In certain implementations the email application may initiate provisioning requests and or callback messages to the provisioning module to facilitate provisioning resources to a user or to change provisioning information maintained by the centralized provisioning module .

The third application includes database functionality that is accessible via a user access module . The user access module includes functionality to determine user permissions such as access rights and usage rights based on user log in information. User permissions may be automatically provisioned to a user via the centralized processing module in response to a provisioning request received thereby from one or more of the applications or from one or more of the additional resources .

For the purposes of the present discussion a user permission associated with a file or resource may be any right of a user or particular software and or hardware application to use the file or resource such as by accessing deleting moving or otherwise manipulating the file.

The ability of an application to employ the provisioning module to automatically provision computing resources may be controlled by an administrator by making appropriated adjustments to the provisioning policy .

The first HCM application is particularly adapted to facilitate employee onboarding i.e. intake processing. Often employee onboarding in an enterprise organization requires hiring manager to submit a provisioning request either directly to the provisioning module or to an application e.g. the HCM application that propagates the request the provisioning module . The provisioning module may also be called an identity management system.

For the purposes of the present discussion an identity management system may be any collection of functionality for managing resources associated with a user or group of users based on the identity of the user or group of users. An example identity management system includes rules for identifying and authenticating a user or group and for obtaining authorization to allocate certain resources to the user in accordance with a provisioning policy and to notify the user as to the status of provisioning requests delivered to one or more resources or software applications in an accompanying computing environment.

Successful user provisioning results in the creation of appropriate accounts in various other business applications and other systems such as the applications and any systems included in the additional computing resources . Use of the provisioning module may enable for example a newly hired employee to start using various business resources e.g. business applications such as email calendar and other systems such as door entry locking systems and so on. Similarly when the business responsibility changes for a user then he she may gain or lose access to other business resources. When the user leaves the organization then he she looses all access rights to these business resources. Corresponding changes to the way resources are provisioned may be efficiently effect through use of the centralized provisioning module .

Such business responsibility changes may originate from applications such as the HCM application an access management system and so on. The provisioning module accepts such changes processes them using approval workflow as specified by the policy and finally propagates user account information updates to other computing resources such as the applications . Note that the provisioning module can provision human identities such as employees contractors partners and so on as well as non human identities such as computers network equipment and so on. For the purposes of the present discussion a user may be a human or a computing entity or group thereof that is adapted to use a particular computing resource.

One scenario addressed by the provisioning module involves a situation wherein business responsibility changes require interactions with the application that submitted the request or other designated applications during the processing of the submitted request. For example if human resource application submits an employee on boarding request then the provisioning module may require a background check with another external system. It may also require assigning few default responsibilities that will enable the employee to use office productivity applications such as email calendar and so on without any additional access request submission.

With use of the system if business requirement of an organization requires that newly hired employee should have accounts automatically provisioned for email calendar building door entry system 401k tax management account and so on then all such applications should be in communication with the centralized provisioning module . The provisioning module facilitates implementing a method whereby provisioning notification propagation is implemented via the provisioning module . The provisioning module includes computer code to facilitate processing and managing change requests based on policies using standard interfaces such as interface defined for pre processing validation etc . This obviates the need to hard coded fixed business logic in each application. It also allows one requestor application to generate change events and then use provisioning module to notify other applications systems and to propagate changes to the other applications systems.

For example human resource system such as the HCM application may request creation of an employee account. When account creation is complete the provisioning module can propagate account creation instructions such to other applications such as email computer login account 401k account healthcare account etc. to setup accounts automatically for that user.

Without an embodiment in accordance with the present teachings existing computing environments required additional administrative steps to provision such accounts in other systems modifications to business logic in each application were required. Using the present embodiment after initial setup of the system and accompanying provisioning module when a new application needs provisioning information a system administrator can simply change the policy configuration represented by the provisioning policy and the provisioning request processing module so that provisioning notifications are propagated to the new application.

When an application such as human resource system submits user account creation request the provisioning module accepts the request and initiates the provisioning process. During provisioning request processing a particular request may go through various steps depending on applicable business flows based on the business policy of the corresponding organization.

Pre processing This step allows the data integrity of a submitted request data to be checked. Any default data may be computed be computed and added to the request. For example default roles for the new employee account that will allow employee to access business applications like email and provision a phone number for the employee may be included.

Validation This stage validates entire request data value along with default data added in the pre processing stage. For example if a user s social security number is missing for the employee account then a tax account management application privilege may be omitted from the provisioning request.

Approval This stage allows a provisioning request to be examined by human interactions for request approval. For example an employee termination request may be approved by an appropriate manager. Approval can be automatic in certain scenarios. Automatic approval does not require any human intervention. For example an employee promoted to a manager might be able see his her subordinates benefit information depending upon the implementation. An approver may be allowed to modify or correct a subset of the requested data.

Post processing This stage allows processed account information to be provided to the requestor or any other relevant entities. At this stage account processing is complete from the provisioning module perspective and designated applications will get updates for the corresponding account. For example email calendar applications may receive notifications for the updated account information.

Completion At this stage provisioning module receives a post processing reply for all concerned entities indicating that the entities i.e. resources have completed their own relevant internal processing if any. The provisioning module then sends back a completing event message to the appropriate applications indicating that request processing has successfully completed. For example in response to post processing notifications email and calendar application may send back a notification to the provisioning module indicating that post processing replies were received successfully and that any locally stored user information has been updated successfully.

The provisioning module includes code for enabling calling back the requestor application or any other entities to provide additional data or process part of the submitted data or even validate it. In each processing stage if the provisioning module needs to contact more than one entity resource then such operations could be invoked sequentially or in parallel. When permitted parallel operation may reduce request processing time and may improve overall efficiency of the system . If a change occurs in the provisioning module for a particular identity user then the provisioning module can notify such changes to the application in accordance with the above methodology.

Above mentioned stages may employ communication over network between the provisioning module and the resources e.g. applications . Accordingly appropriate security mechanisms are used to secure the overall security of the system .

Hence the present embodiment allows policy driven notifications to applications in multiple stages when account change happens in the computing environment i.e. system . This avoids the need to make application changes when business flow or provisioning policy changes. Such flow changes can be implemented via changes to the policy of the policy driven provisioning module . This obviates the need for applications themselves to propagate provisioning changes to other applications thereby avoiding any tedious application changes when business flow changes in an organization.

A second step includes receiving a provisioning request from a user or resource e.g. application in the computing environment.

A fifth step includes making any requisite adjustments to provisioned resources and to the established provisioning policy based on the request.

A third step includes employing a centralized customizable provisioning system or module to allocate computing resources such as accounts resources access rights usage privileges to a user in accordance with the established provisioning policy and the provisioning request.

A fourth step includes selectively calling back computing resources and receiving provisioning status information in response thereto where the status information may be used to further adjust provisioned resources as needed to meet policy specifications.

Note that various steps of the method may be altered changed interchanged with other steps or omitted or additional steps may be added without departing from the scope of the present teachings. For example the fourth step and the fifth step may be omitted or replaced with other steps.

A subsequent determining step includes determining a context associated with the provisioning request.

Next a referencing step includes referencing a provisioning policy to determine a set of predetermined policy rules to follow based on the context.

Subsequently a propagating step includes propagating provisioning instructions to one or more applications in the computing environment in accordance with the rules where the provisioning instructions are adapted to provision resources to a user in accordance with the policy rules.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines of particular embodiments including C C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different particular embodiments. In some particular embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. Particular embodiments can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic when executed by one or more processors may be operable to perform that which is described in particular embodiments.

Particular embodiments may be implemented by using a programmed general purpose digital computer by using application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays optical chemical biological quantum or nanoengineered systems components and mechanisms may be used. In general the functions of particular embodiments can be achieved by any means as is known in the art. Distributed networked systems components and or circuits can be used. Communication or transfer of data may be wired wireless or by any other means.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. It is also within the spirit and scope to implement a program or code that can be stored in a machine readable medium to permit a computer to perform any of the methods described above.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the includes plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Thus while particular embodiments have been described herein latitudes of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of particular embodiments will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit.

