---

title: 1,4-benzodiazepine-2,5-diones and related compounds with therapeutic properties
abstract: The present invention provides novel chemical compounds characterized as Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitors, methods for their discovery, and their therapeutic, research, and diagnostic use. In particular, the present invention provides 1,4-benzodiazepine-2,5-dione compounds and related compounds having ROCK inhibitory activity, and methods of using such compounds as therapeutic agents to treat a number of conditions associated with ROCK activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09126978&OS=09126978&RS=09126978
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 09126978
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101103
---
The present application is a U.S. 371 National Phase Entry of pending International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 055254 international filing date Nov. 3 2010 which claims priority to expired U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 262 010 filed Nov. 17 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention provides novel chemical compounds characterized as selective Rho kinase ROCK inhibitors methods for their discovery and their therapeutic research and diagnostic use. In particular the present invention provides 1 4 benzodiazepine 2 5 dione compounds and related compounds having selective ROCK inhibitory activity and methods of using such compounds as therapeutic agents to treat a number of conditions associated with ROCK activity.

Following the discovery of Ras in 1981 a number of related small GTP binding proteins small GTPases have been identified and their physiological functions have been extensively studied. These small GTPases molecular mass 20 30 kDa switch between the inactive GDP bound state and the active GTP bound state a process that is highly regulated primarily by guanine exchange factors GEFs and GTPase activating proteins GAPs see e.g. Hall A. Science 1990 249 635 640 Bourne H. R. et al. Nature 1991 349 117 127 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

To date more than 50 different genes encoding small GTPases have been identified from yeast to mammals forming the Ras superfamily. These small GTPases are largely divided into 5 families of Ras Rho Rab Arf and Ran according to primary amino acid sequences and functional similarities. Of these Rho Ras homologue encodes a polypeptide having about 35 homology with Ras see e.g. Madaule P. Cell 1985 41 31 40 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . The Rho family itself can be divided into 6 subfamilies based on primary amino acid sequence structural motifs and biological function which includes the RhoA related subfamily Cdc42 related subfamily Rac related subfamily as well as the Rnd RhoBTB and Miro subfamilies. Cellular activity of Rho has been studied by several methods including overexpression or microinjection of the active GTP bound form of Rho to identify the phenotype of Rho activation. A second complimentary method has been to treat cells with botulinum C3 exoenzyme which specifically ADP ribosylates and inactivates endogenous Rho thereby identifying the phenotype of Rho inactivation Narumiya S. J Biochem 1996 120 215 228 . As such Rho GTPases have been identified as key regulators of actin reorganization and have been implicated in the regulation of cell polarity migration cell shape adhesion contraction as well as endo and exocytosis see e.g. Ridley A. J. Trends Cell Biol 2001 11 471 477 .

Downstream targets of Rho GTPases that are involved in actin cytoskeletal reorganization include citron kinase p140mDia protein kinase N PKN p21 activated protein kinase PAK rhophillen and rhotekin. The Rho associated coiled coil forming protein kinases ROCKs first isolated by T. Ishizaki and coworkers in the mid 1990s were the first and best characterized effectors of RhoA and were initially characterized for their roles in mediating the formation of RhoA induced stress fibers and focal adhesion through their effects on the phosphorylation of myosin light chain Matsui T. et. al. EMBO J 1996 15 2208 2216 Leung T. et. al. Mol. Cell Biol. 1996 16 5315 5327 . Subsequently ROCKs have been shown to play a role in many key cellular functions such as cell motility invasion contraction differentiation migration and survival Riento K. Ridley A. Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2003 4 446 456 .

ROCKs are serine threonine protein kinases with a molecular mass of approximately 160 kDa. Two isoforms encoded by two different genes have been identified ROCKI also known as ROK or p160ROCK and ROCKII or ROK . The isoforms share an overall amino acid sequence identity of 65 and 92 sequence identity in their kinase domains. ROCKs are most homologous to members of the AGC kinases such as myotonic dystrophy kinase DMPK DMPK related cell division control protein 42 Cdc42 binding kinase MRCK and citron kinase CK . In general this family of kinases consists of an amino terminal kinase domain followed by a coiled coil forming region and then a pleckstrin homology PH domain with an internal cysteine rich repeat at the carboxy terminal. In addition ROCKs also contain a Rho binding domain RBD within their coiled coil domain. In the inactive state the carboxy terminal domains bind to the amino terminal region which forms an autoinhibitory loop. Activated GTP bound Rho binds to the RBD of ROCK which results in an open conformation of the kinase thereby freeing the catalytic activity. ROCKs can also be activated by lipid binding e.g. arachidonic acid and sphingosylphosphorylcholine to the PH domain. ROCK activity can also be induced during apoptosis as caspase 3 can cleave the auto inhibitory loop of ROCKI while granzyme B and caspase 2 cleave ROCKII in a similar fashion both of which result in constitutively active ROCK.

In response to activators of Rho such as lysophosphatidic acid LPA or sphingisone 1 phosphate S1P which stimulate Rho GEFs and lead to the formation of active GTP bound Rho ROCKs mediate a broad range of cellular responses involving the actin cytoskeleton through phosphorylation of a variety of cellular targets. For example phosphorylation of the motor protein myosin II has an important role in regulating actomyosin contractility. ROCK can directly phosphorylate myosin light chain MLC which results in subsequent myosin actin interactions and enhanced cell contractility. ROCK can also indirectly regulate MLC phosphorylation levels through phosphorylation and inactivation of myosin light chain phosphatase MLCP . Another downstream target of ROCK are LIM kinases 1 and 2 whose phosphorylation leads to inhibition of cofilin mediated actin filament disassembly and therefore an increase in the number of actin filaments. Other cellular targets of ROCK include the ezrin radixin moesin ERM protein complex intermediate filament proteins such as vimentin and the filamentous F actin binding protein adducin Riento K. Ridley A. Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2003 4 446 456 .

Despite having similar kinase domains ROCK1 and ROCK2 may have different cellular functions and have different downstream targets. For example in vitro ROCK1 has been shown to phosphorylate LIM kinase 1 and 2 while ROCK 2 phosphorylates MLC adducin smooth muscle specific basic calponin and collapsing response mediator protein 2 CRMP2 a neuronal protein that is involved in LPA induced collapse of growth cones Riento K. Ridley A. Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2003 4 446 456 . Furthermore siRNA experiments have demonstrated distinct roles for ROCK1 and ROCK2 in rat embryonic fibroblast cells where ROCK1 was important for stress fiber formation and stabilization of focal adhesion sites while ROCK2 activity was involved in phagocytosis of matrix coated beads Yoneda A. et. al. J. Cell Biol. 2005 170 443 453 . Differential expression and regulation in various cell types has also been observed. For example only ROCK1 is cleaved by caspase 3 during apoptosis while ROCK2 is cleaved by granzyme B and caspase 2. In addition ROCK1 expression tends to be more ubiquitous while ROCK2 is most highly expressed in muscle and brain tissues indicating that the protein may have a specialized role in these cell types Nakagawa O. et. al. FEBS Lett. 1996 392 189 193 . However in vivo data relating ROCK1 and ROCK2 isoforms to differential functions is still lacking.

Abnormal activation of the Rho ROCK pathway has been shown to play a role in a wide range of diseases both in those involving abnormal smooth muscle tone or smooth muscle hyperreactivity as well as in pathological processes involving non smooth muscle cells. For example Rho ROCK mediated signaling has been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension vasospasms leading to vasoconstriction and ischemia both cerebral and coronary bronchial asthma preterm labor erectile dysfunction and glaucoma Werrschureck N. Offermanns S. J Mol Med. 2002 80 629 638 and references therein . Vascular diseases such as hypertension atherosclerosis postangioplasty restenosis and transplant arteriosclerosis which are characterized by abnormal vascular smooth muscle cell VSMC proliferation and migration have also been shown to be associated with increased Rho ROCK signaling. Rho ROCK mediated signaling is also associated with disease in non smooth cells such as myocardial hypertrophy. Abnormal activation of the Rho ROCK pathway has been observed in various disorders of the central nervous system CNS Mueller B. K. et al. Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2005 4 387 398 and references therein . Injury to the adult vertebrate brain and spinal cord activates ROCKs thereby inhibiting neurite growth and sprouting. As such there is significant potential therapeutic use of ROCK inhibitors for the treatment of various neurological disorders including spinal cord injury Alzheimer s disease stroke multiple sclerosis and neuropathic pain. Furthermore tumor cell migration and invasion involves Rho mediated processes and activation of RhoA or of ROCK has been shown to increase the invasiveness of cultured rat hepatoma cells Itoh K. et al. Nat Med. 1999 5 221 225 . In addition a number of oncogenes encode exchange factors for Rho suggesting that the Rho ROCK pathway is an attractive candidate for new anticancer strategies.

Given the extensive involvement of the Rho ROCK pathway in many disease states there has been considerable interest in the development of ROCK inhibitors in the last 20 years. Fasudil

Fasudil has been marketed in Japan since 1995 for the treatment of vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage and safety profile data indicate that it is well tolerated in humans. It has been shown to have beneficial effects in a number of cardiovascular diseases including angina pectoris hypertension coronary vasospasm restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention and arteriosclerosis Hirooka Y. Shimokawa H. Am. J. Cardiovasc. Drugs 2005 5 31 39 and references therein . Y 27632 has been much less investigated in vivo but limited studies have demonstrated that similar to fasudil it is rapidly metabolized and brain penetration may be too low to achieve therapeutic levels for CNS diseases. In addition both inhibitors like other ATP competitive inhibitors demonstrate a 100 1 000 fold decrease in activity in cellular assays as compared to in vitro activities due to competition with intracellular micromolar ATP concentrations. At such a high cellular concentration their low to moderate kinase selectivity for PKN citron kinase MSK1 and MAPKAPK1b can lead to additional off target effects. As such the development of a new structural class of ROCK inhibitors may provide more selective ROCK inhibitors against other kinases as well as the development of ROCK isoform specific inhibitors. Such inhibitors have the potential to be used therapeutically in both cancer and heart disease given the evidence from animal studies of the involvement of ROCK in invasion metastasis neuroregeneration and smooth muscle cell contraction.

What are needed are improved compositions and methods for inhibiting Rho kinase activity in subjects afflicted with diseases and conditions associated with aberrant Rho kinase activity.

Rho Kinase ROCK is a member of the serine threonine protein kinase family. ROCK exists in two isoforms ROCK1 and ROCK2 see e.g. T. Ishizaki et al. EMBO J. 1996 15 1885 1893 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . The present invention provides novel chemical compounds characterized as selective ROCK inhibitors e.g. inhibitors of ROCK1 and or ROCK2 methods for their discovery and their therapeutic research and diagnostic use. In particular the present invention provides 1 4 benzodiazepine 2 5 dione compounds and related compounds having selective ROCK inhibitory activity and methods of using such compounds as therapeutic agents to treat a number of conditions associated with ROCK activity. Such compounds and uses are described throughout the present application and represent a diverse collection of compositions and applications. Certain preferred compositions and uses are described below. The present invention is not limited to these particular compositions and uses. The present invention provides a number of useful compositions as described throughout the present application.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compounds having selective ROCK inhibitory activity. The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of selective ROCK inhibitor. Experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds capable of inhibiting ROCK activity e.g. inhibiting ROCK1 and or ROCK2 activity . In addition experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds as selective ROCK inhibitors e.g. compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK1 activity over ROCK2 activity e.g. compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 activity .

While not limited to the particular compounds the present invention provides ROCK activity inhibiting compounds described by a formula selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl hexyl isopropyl and substituted alkyl.

In some embodiments R3 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen H CH ethyl hexyl isopropyl halogen OH a chemical moiety comprising an aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ester subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ether subgroup a linear or branched saturated or unsaturated substituted or non substituted aliphatic chain having at least 2 carbons a chemical moiety comprising Sulfur a chemical moiety comprising Nitrogen OR wherein R is selected from the group consisting of a chemical moiety comprising an aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted heterocyclic subgroup a linear or branched saturated or unsaturated substituted or non substituted aliphatic chain having at least 2 carbons a chemical moiety comprising at least one ester subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ether subgroup a chemical moiety comprising Sulfur a chemical moiety comprising Nitrogen.

In some embodiments R5 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl substituted alkyl mono substituted aryl di substituted aryl and tri substituted aryl.

In some embodiments R7 R8 R9 and R10 are independently selected from the group consisting of being absent H halogen CF3 

In some embodiments R11 R12 R13 and R14 are independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl e.g. unsubstituted alkyl fluoroalkyl 

In some embodiments R15 R16 R17 and R18 are independently selected from the group consisting of C N O and S.

In some embodiments R19 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl ketone a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising nitrogen a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising oxygen and a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising sulfur.

In some embodiments R20 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl ketone a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising nitrogen a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising oxygen and a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising sulfur.

In some embodiments R21 R22 R23 and R24 are independently selected from the group consisting of being absent H halogen CF3 

In some embodiments R25 R26 R27 and R28 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl e.g. unsubstituted alkyl fluoroalkyl 

Experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. Table 1 and Example II . As such the present invention provides the following compounds that selectively ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 

In certain embodiments the present invention provides pharmaceutical preparations comprising one or more of the Rho kinase activity inhibiting compounds of the present invention.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating a disorder comprising administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical preparation to a subject suffering from the disorder wherein the disorder is associated with aberrant Rho kinase activity and wherein the pharmaceutical preparation comprises one or more of the Rho kinase activity inhibiting compounds of the present invention. In some embodiments the compound is a selective Rho kinase inhibitor e.g. inhibits ROCK1 more than ROCK2 e.g. inhibits ROCK2 more than ROCK1 . In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. compounds 1 5 as shown in Table 1 and Example II . In some embodiments the subject is a human subject e.g. a human subject suffering from the disorder .

Any one or more of these compounds can be used to treat a variety of disorders related to Rho kinase activity including but not limited to cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus and acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome .

In some embodiments the disorder is an autoimmune disorder. Examples of autoimmune disorders include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus Celiac Sprue idiopathic thrombocytopenic thrombotic purpura myasthenia gravis Sjogren s syndrome scleroderma or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In certain other embodiments the autoimmune disorder is psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease systemic lupus erythematosus or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is a type of psoriasis selected from the group consisting of plaque psoriasis guttate psoriasis inverse psoriasis pustular psoriasis and erythrodermic psoriasis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is inflammatory bowel disease or ulcerative colitis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder associated with or arising from activity of pathogenic lymphocytes. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder susceptible to treatment by administering to a patient with the immune disorder an active agent that inhibits mitochondrial respiration.

In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is arthritis juvenile arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile enteropathic arthritis juvenile reactive arthritis juvenile Reter s Syndrome SEA Syndrome juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile psoriatic arthritis juvenile scleroderma juvenile systemic lupus erythematosus juvenile vasculitis pauciarticular rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset rheumatoid arthritis ankylosing spondylitis enteropathic arthritis reactive arthritis uveitis Reter s Syndrome dermatomyositis psoriatic arthritis vasculitis myolitis polymyolitis dermatomyolitis osteoarthritis polyarteritis nodossa Wegener s granulomatosis arteritis ploymyalgia rheumatica sarcoidosis sclerosis primary biliary sclerosis sclerosing cholangitis dermatitis atopic dermatitis Still s disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Guillain Barre disease Graves disease Addison s disease Raynaud s phenomenon or autoimmune hepatitis.

Additionally any one or more of these compounds can be used in combination with at least one other therapeutic agent in the treatment.

In some embodiments the disorder is related to pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . For example it has been demonstrated that inhibition of ROCK2 results in inhibited expression of pro inflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 see e.g. Biswas et al. J. Clin. Inv. 2010 120 9 3280 3295 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Accordingly in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 inhibition is accomplished through use of any of the compounds of the present invention that selectively inhibits ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. compounds 1 5 as shown in Table 1 and Example II . The methods are not limited to a particular manner of pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 inhibition. For example in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition is achieved through inhibition of ROCK2 which for example thereby inhibits IRF4 expression e.g. through prevention of IRF4 phosphorylation which for example inhibits IL17 and or IL 21 expression.

The methods are not limited to a disorder related to pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . In some embodiments the disorder is an inflammatory disorder. Inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis osteoarthritis degenerative arthritis polymyalgia rheumatic ankylosing spondylitis reactive arthritis gout pseudogout inflammatory joint disease systemic lupus erythematosus polymyositis and fibromyalgia. Additional types of arthritis include achilles tendinitis achondroplasia acromegalic arthropathy adhesive capsulitis adult onset Still s disease anserine bursitis avascular necrosis Behcet s syndrome bicipital tendinitis Blount s disease brucellar spondylitis bursitis calcaneal bursitis calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease CPPD crystal deposition disease Caplan s syndrome carpal tunnel syndrome chondrocalcinosis chondromalacia patellae chronic synovitis chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome corticosteroid induced osteoporosis costosternal syndrome CREST syndrome cryoglobulinemia degenerative joint disease dermatomyositis diabetic finger sclerosis diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis DISH discitis discoid lupus erythematosus drug induced lupus Duchenne s muscular dystrophy Dupuytren s contracture Ehlers Danlos syndrome enteropathic arthritis epicondylitis erosive inflammatory osteoarthritis exercise induced compartment syndrome Fabry s disease familial Mediterranean fever Farber s lipogranulomatosis Felty s syndrome Fifth s disease flat feet foreign body synovitis Freiberg s disease fungal arthritis Gaucher s disease giant cell arteritis gonococcal arthritis Goodpasture s syndrome granulomatous arteritis hemarthrosis hemochromatosis Henoch Schonlein purpura Hepatitis B surface antigen disease hip dysplasia Hurler syndrome hypermobility syndrome hypersensitivity vasculitis hypertrophic osteoarthropathy immune complex disease impingement syndrome Jaccoud s arthropathy juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki disease Kienbock s disease Legg Calve Perthes disease Lesch Nyhan syndrome linear scleroderma lipoid dermatoarthritis Lofgren s syndrome Lyme disease malignant synovioma Marfan s syndrome medial plica syndrome metastatic carcinomatous arthritis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD mixed cryoglobulinemia mucopolysaccharidosis multicentric reticulohistiocytosis multiple epiphyseal dysplasia mycoplasmal arthritis myofascial pain syndrome neonatal lupus neuropathic arthropathy nodular panniculitis ochronosis olecranon bursitis Osgood Schlatter s disease osteoarthritis osteochondromatosis osteogenesis imperfecta osteomalacia osteomyelitis osteonecrosis osteoporosis overlap syndrome pachydermoperiostosis Paget s disease of bone palindromic rheumatism patellofemoral pain syndrome Pellegrini Stieda syndrome pigmented villonodular synovitis piriformis syndrome plantar fasciitis polyarteritis nodos Polymyalgia rheumatic polymyositis popliteal cysts posterior tibial tendinitis Pott s disease prepatellar bursitis prosthetic joint infection pseudoxanthoma elasticum psoriatic arthritis Raynaud s phenomenon reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome relapsing polychondritis retrocalcaneal bursitis rheumatic fever rheumatoid vasculitis rotator cuff tendinitis sacroiliitis salmonella osteomyelitis sarcoidosis saturnine gout Scheuermann s osteochondritis scleroderma septic arthritis seronegative arthritis shigella arthritis shoulder hand syndrome sickle cell arthropathy Sjogren s syndrome slipped capital femoral epiphysis spinal stenosis spondylolysis staphylococcus arthritis Stickler syndrome subacute cutaneous lupus Sweet s syndrome Sydenham s chorea syphilitic arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Takayasu s arteritis tarsal tunnel syndrome tennis elbow Tietse s syndrome transient osteoporosis traumatic arthritis trochanteric bursitis tuberculosis arthritis arthritis of Ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue syndrome UCTS urticarial vasculitis viral arthritis Wegener s granulomatosis Whipple s disease Wilson s disease and yersinial arthritis.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for inhibiting Rho kinase activity. The methods are not limited to a particular technique. In some embodiments the methods involve exposing target cells to a composition comprising one or more of the Rho kinase activity inhibiting compounds of the present invention. In some embodiments the composition binds to the target cells so as to inhibit Rho kinase activity within the target cells. The methods are not limited to particular types of cells. In some embodiments the cells are for example in vitro cells in vivo cells ex vivo cells and or cancer cells.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for inhibiting pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . The methods are not limited to a particular technique. In some embodiments the methods involve exposing target cells to a composition comprising one or more of the Rho kinase activity inhibiting compounds of the present invention that selectively inhibit selectively inhibits ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. compounds 1 5 as shown in Table 1 and Example II . In some embodiments the composition binds to the target cells so as to inhibit pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 within the target cells. The methods are not limited to particular types of cells. In some embodiments the cells are for example in vitro cells in vivo cells ex vivo cells and or cancer cells. The methods are not limited to a particular manner of pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition. For example in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition is achieved through inhibition of ROCK2 which for example thereby inhibits IRF4 expression e.g. through prevention of IRF4 phosphorylation which for example inhibits IL17 and or IL 21 expression.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating an inflammatory disorder comprising administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical preparation e.g. comprising a compound configured to inhibit ROCK2 activity to a subject suffering from the inflammatory disorder. The present invention is not limited to a particular compound configured to inhibit ROCK2 activity. Examples of compounds configured to inhibit ROCK2 activity include but are not limited to 

The methods are not limited to a particular inflammatory disorder. Indeed examples of inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis osteoarthritis degenerative arthritis polymyalgia rheumatic ankylosing spondylitis reactive arthritis gout pseudogout inflammatory joint disease systemic lupus erythematosus polymyositis and fibromyalgia. Additional types of arthritis include achilles tendinitis achondroplasia acromegalic arthropathy adhesive capsulitis adult onset Still s disease anserine bursitis avascular necrosis Behcet s syndrome bicipital tendinitis Blount s disease brucellar spondylitis bursitis calcaneal bursitis calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease CPPD crystal deposition disease Caplan s syndrome carpal tunnel syndrome chondrocalcinosis chondromalacia patellae chronic synovitis chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome corticosteroid induced osteoporosis costosternal syndrome CREST syndrome cryoglobulinemia degenerative joint disease dermatomyositis diabetic finger sclerosis diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis DISH discitis discoid lupus erythematosus drug induced lupus Duchenne s muscular dystrophy Dupuytren s contracture Ehlers Danlos syndrome enteropathic arthritis epicondylitis erosive inflammatory osteoarthritis exercise induced compartment syndrome Fabry s disease familial Mediterranean fever Farber s lipogranulomatosis Felty s syndrome Fifth s disease flat feet foreign body synovitis Freiberg s disease fungal arthritis Gaucher s disease giant cell arteritis gonococcal arthritis Goodpasture s syndrome granulomatous arteritis hemarthrosis hemochromatosis Henoch Schonlein purpura Hepatitis B surface antigen disease hip dysplasia Hurler syndrome hypermobility syndrome hypersensitivity vasculitis hypertrophic osteoarthropathy immune complex disease impingement syndrome Jaccoud s arthropathy juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki disease Kienbock s disease Legg Calve Perthes disease Lesch Nyhan syndrome linear scleroderma lipoid dermatoarthritis Lofgren s syndrome Lyme disease malignant synovioma Marfan s syndrome medial plica syndrome metastatic carcinomatous arthritis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD mixed cryoglobulinemia mucopolysaccharidosis multicentric reticulohistiocytosis multiple epiphyseal dysplasia mycoplasmal arthritis myofascial pain syndrome neonatal lupus neuropathic arthropathy nodular panniculitis ochronosis olecranon bursitis Osgood Schlatter s disease osteoarthritis osteochondromatosis osteogenesis imperfecta osteomalacia osteomyelitis osteonecrosis osteoporosis overlap syndrome pachydermoperiostosis Paget s disease of bone palindromic rheumatism patellofemoral pain syndrome Pellegrini Stieda syndrome pigmented villonodular synovitis piriformis syndrome plantar fasciitis polyarteritis nodos Polymyalgia rheumatic polymyositis popliteal cysts posterior tibial tendinitis Pott s disease prepatellar bursitis prosthetic joint infection pseudoxanthoma elasticum psoriatic arthritis Raynaud s phenomenon reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome relapsing polychondritis retrocalcaneal bursitis rheumatic fever rheumatoid vasculitis rotator cuff tendinitis sacroiliitis salmonella osteomyelitis sarcoidosis saturnine gout Scheuermann s osteochondritis scleroderma septic arthritis seronegative arthritis shigella arthritis shoulder hand syndrome sickle cell arthropathy Sjogren s syndrome slipped capital femoral epiphysis spinal stenosis spondylolysis staphylococcus arthritis Stickler syndrome subacute cutaneous lupus Sweet s syndrome Sydenham s chorea syphilitic arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Takayasu s arteritis tarsal tunnel syndrome tennis elbow Tietse s syndrome transient osteoporosis traumatic arthritis trochanteric bursitis tuberculosis arthritis arthritis of Ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue syndrome UCTS urticarial vasculitis viral arthritis Wegener s granulomatosis Whipple s disease Wilson s disease and yersinial arthritis.

In some embodiments the methods involve co administering to the subject a therapeutic agent configured for treating said inflammatory disorders. Examples of such agents include but are not limited to disease modifying antirheumatic drugs e.g. leflunomide methotrexate sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine biologic agents e.g. rituximab infliximab etanercept adalimumab golimumab nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs e.g. ibuprofen celecoxib ketoprofen naproxen piroxicam diclofenac analgesics e.g. acetaminophen tramadol immunomodulators e.g. anakinra abatacept and glucocorticoids e.g. prednisone methylprednisone IL 1 inhibitors IL 17 inhibitors IL 21 inhibitors and metalloprotease inhibitors.

To facilitate an understanding of the present invention a number of terms and phrases are defined below.

As used herein the term ROCK Rho kinase or similar terms refer to serine threonine protein kinases with a molecular mass of approximately 160 kDa. Two isoforms encoded by two different genes have been identified ROCKI also known as ROK or p160ROCK and ROCKII or ROK .

As used herein the terms selective ROCK inhibitor selective ROCK inhibiting compound or similar terms refer to a natural or synthetic compound of the present invention which selectively inhibit ROCK1 and or ROCK2 activity and or pathways related to ROCK1 and or ROCK2 activity e.g. pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL21 and or related pathways e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . The selective ROCK inhibiting compounds are not limited to a particular manner of selective ROCK inhibition. For example in some embodiments one or more of the selective ROCK inhibiting compounds selectively inhibit ROCK1 activity over ROCK2 activity. For example in some embodiments one or more of the selective ROCK inhibiting compounds selectively inhibit ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 activity see e.g. compounds 1 5 as described in Table 1 and Example II . Moreover in some embodiments one or more of the selective ROCK inhibiting compounds selectively inhibit both ROCK1 activity and ROCK2 activity with similar capability.

As used herein the term benzodiazepine refers to a seven membered non aromatic heterocyclic ring fused to a phenyl ring wherein the seven membered ring has two nitrogen atoms as part of the heterocyclic ring. In some aspects the two nitrogen atoms are in the 1 and 4 positions or the 1 and 5 positions as shown in the general structures below 

The term chemical moiety refers to any chemical compound containing at least one carbon atom. Examples of chemical moieties include but are not limited to aromatic chemical moieties chemical moieties comprising Sulfur chemical moieties comprising Nitrogen hydrophilic chemical moieties and hydrophobic chemical moieties.

As used herein the term aliphatic represents the groups including but not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl and acyclic.

As used herein the term aryl represents a single aromatic ring such as a phenyl ring or two or more aromatic rings e.g. biphenyl naphthalene anthracene or an aromatic ring and one or more non aromatic rings. The aryl group can be optionally substituted with a lower aliphatic group e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl or acyclic . Additionally the aliphatic and aryl groups can be further substituted by one or more functional groups including but not limited to chemical moieties comprising N S O NH NHCOCH OH lower alkoxy C C and halo F Cl Br or I .

As used herein the term substituted aliphatic refers to an alkane alkene alkyne or acyclic moiety where at least one of the aliphatic hydrogen atoms has been replaced by for example a halogen an amino a hydroxy an ether a nitro a thio a ketone a sulfone a sulfonamide an aldehyde an ester an amide a lower aliphatic a substituted lower aliphatic or a ring aryl substituted aryl cycloaliphatic or substituted cycloaliphatic etc. . Examples of such include but are not limited to 1 chloroethyl and the like.

As used herein the term substituted aryl refers to an aromatic ring or fused aromatic ring system consisting of at least one aromatic ring and where at least one of the hydrogen atoms on a ring carbon has been replaced by for example a halogen an amino a hydroxy a nitro a thio a ketone an aldehyde an ether an ester an amide a sulfone a sulfonamide a lower aliphatic a substituted lower aliphatic or a ring aryl substituted aryl cycloaliphatic or substituted cycloaliphatic . Examples of such include but are not limited to hydroxyphenyl and the like.

As used herein the term cycloaliphatic refers to an aliphatic structure containing a fused ring system. Examples of such include but are not limited to decalin and the like.

As used herein the term substituted cycloaliphatic refers to a cycloaliphatic structure where at least one of the aliphatic hydrogen atoms has been replaced by a halogen a heteroatom a nitro a thio an amino a hydroxy a ketone an aldehyde an ester an amide a lower aliphatic a substituted lower aliphatic or a ring aryl substituted aryl cycloaliphatic or substituted cycloaliphatic . Examples of such include but are not limited to 1 chlorodecalyl bicyclo heptanes octanes and nonanes e.g. nonrbornyl and the like.

As used herein the term heterocyclic represents for example an aromatic or nonaromatic ring containing one or more heteroatoms. The heteroatoms can be the same or different from each other. Examples of heteroatoms include but are not limited to nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Aromatic and nonaromatic heterocyclic rings are well known in the art. Some nonlimiting examples of aromatic heterocyclic rings include pyridine pyrimidine indole purine quinoline and isoquinoline. Nonlimiting examples of nonaromatic heterocyclic compounds include piperidine piperazine morpholine pyrrolidine and pyrazolidine. Examples of oxygen containing heterocyclic rings include but not limited to furan oxirane 2H pyran 4H pyran 2H chromene and benzofuran. Examples of sulfur containing heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to thiophene benzothiophene and parathiazine. Examples of nitrogen containing rings include but not limited to pyrrole pyrrolidine pyrazole pyrazolidine imidazole imidazoline imidazolidine pyridine piperidine pyrazine piperazine pyrimidine indole purine benzimidazole quinoline isoquinoline triazole and triazine. Nonlimiting examples of heterocyclic rings containing two different heteroatoms include but are not limited to phenothiazine morpholine parathiazine oxazine oxazole thiazine and thiazole. The heterocyclic ring is optionally further substituted with one or more groups selected from aliphatic nitro acetyl i.e. C O CH or aryl groups.

As used herein the term substituted heterocyclic refers to a heterocylic structure where at least one of the ring hydrogen atoms is replaced by oxygen nitrogen or sulfur and where at least one of the aliphatic hydrogen atoms has been replaced by a halogen hydroxy a thio nitro an amino an ether a sulfone a sulphonamide a ketone an aldehyde an ester an amide a lower aliphatic a substituted lower aliphatic or a ring aryl substituted aryl cycloaliphatic or substituted cycloaliphatic . Examples of such include but are not limited to 2 chloropyranyl.

As used herein the term electron rich heterocycle means cyclic compounds in which one or more ring atoms is a heteroatom e.g. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur and the heteroatom has unpaired electrons which contribute to a 6 electronic system. Exemplary electron rich heterocycles include but are not limited to pyrrole indole furan benzofuran thiophene benzothiophene and other similar structures.

As used herein the term linker refers to a chain containing up to and including eight contiguous atoms connecting two different structural moieties where such atoms are for example carbon nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. Ethylene glycol is one non limiting example.

As used herein the term lower alkyl substituted amino refers to any alkyl unit containing up to and including eight carbon atoms where one of the aliphatic hydrogen atoms is replaced by an amino group. Examples of such include but are not limited to ethylamino and the like.

As used herein the term lower alkyl substituted halogen refers to any alkyl chain containing up to and including eight carbon atoms where one of the aliphatic hydrogen atoms is replaced by a halogen. Examples of such include but are not limited to chlorethyl and the like.

As used herein the term acetylamino shall mean any primary or secondary amino that is acetylated. Examples of such include but are not limited to acetamide and the like.

As used herein the term a moiety that participates in hydrogen bonding as used herein represents a group that can accept or donate a proton to form a hydrogen bond thereby. Some specific non limiting examples of moieties that participate in hydrogen bonding include a fluoro oxygen containing and nitrogen containing groups that are well known in the art. Some examples of oxygen containing groups that participate in hydrogen bonding include hydroxy lower alkoxy lower carbonyl lower carboxyl lower ethers and phenolic groups. The qualifier lower as used herein refers to lower aliphatic groups C C to which the respective oxygen containing functional group is attached. Thus for example the term lower carbonyl refers to inter alia formaldehyde acetaldehyde. Some nonlimiting examples of nitrogen containing groups that participate in hydrogen bond formation include amino and amido groups. Additionally groups containing both an oxygen and a nitrogen atom can also participate in hydrogen bond formation. Examples of such groups include nitro N hydroxy and nitrous groups. It is also possible that the hydrogen bond acceptor in the present invention can be the electrons of an aromatic ring.

The term derivative of a compound as used herein refers to a chemically modified compound wherein the chemical modification takes place either at a functional group of the compound e.g. aromatic ring or benzodiazepine backbone. Such derivatives include but are not limited to esters of alcohol containing compounds esters of carboxy containing compounds amides of amine containing compounds amides of carboxy containing compounds imines of amino containing compounds acetals of aldehyde containing compounds ketals of carbonyl containing compounds and the like.

As used herein the term immune disorder refers to any condition in which an organism produces antibodies or immune cells which recognize the organism s own molecules cells or tissues. Non limiting examples of immune disorders include autoimmune disorders immune hemolytic anemia immune hepatitis Berger s disease or IgA nephropathy Celiac Sprue chronic fatigue syndrome Crohn s disease dermatomyositis fibromyalgia graft versus host disease Grave s disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura lichen planus multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis psoriasis rheumatic fever rheumatic arthritis scleroderma Sjorgren syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus type 1 diabetes ulcerative colitis vitiligo tuberculosis and the like.

As used herein an inflammatory disorder refers to disorders characterized by caused by resulting from or becoming affected by inflammation. An inflammatory disorder may be caused by or be associated with biological and pathological processes associated with for example pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . Examples of inflammatory diseases or disorders include but are not limited to acute and chronic inflammatory disorders such as asthma psoriasis rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis psoriatic arthritis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis ankylosing spondylitis sepsis vasculitis and bursitis autoimmune diseases such as Lupus Polymyalgia Rheumatica Scleroderma Wegener s granulomatosis temporal arteritis cryoglobulinemia and multiple sclerosis transplant rejection osteoporosis cancer including solid tumors e.g. lung CNS colon kidney and pancreas Alzheimer s disease atherosclerosis viral e.g. HIV or influenza infections and chronic viral e.g. Epstein Barr cytomegalovirus herpes simplex virus infection.

As used herein the term subject refers to organisms to be treated by the methods of the present invention. Such organisms preferably include but are not limited to mammals e.g. murines simians equines bovines porcines canines felines and the like and most preferably includes humans. In the context of the invention the term subject generally refers to an individual who will receive or who has received treatment e.g. administration of a compound of the present invention and optionally one or more other agents for a condition associated with aberrant Rho kinase activity.

The term diagnosed as used herein refers to the to recognition of a disease by its signs and symptoms e.g. resistance to conventional therapies or genetic analysis pathological analysis histological analysis and the like.

As used herein the term in vitro refers to an artificial environment and to processes or reactions that occur within an artificial environment. In vitro environments include but are not limited to test tubes and cell cultures. The term in vivo refers to the natural environment e.g. an animal or a cell and to processes or reaction that occur within a natural environment.

As used herein the term host cell refers to any eukaryotic or prokaryotic cell e.g. mammalian cells avian cells amphibian cells plant cells fish cells and insect cells whether located in vitro or in vivo.

As used herein the term cell culture refers to any in vitro culture of cells. Included within this term are continuous cell lines e.g. with an immortal phenotype primary cell cultures finite cell lines e.g. non transformed cells and any other cell population maintained in vitro including oocytes and embryos.

In preferred embodiments the target cells of the compositions and methods of the present invention include refer to but are not limited to cells having aberrant or non aberrant Rho kinase activity.

As used herein the term effective amount refers to the amount of a compound e.g. a compound of the present invention sufficient to effect beneficial or desired results. An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations applications or dosages and is not limited intended to be limited to a particular formulation or administration route.

As used herein the term co administration refers to the administration of at least two agent s e.g. a compound of the present invention or therapies to a subject. In some embodiments the co administration of two or more agents therapies is concurrent. In other embodiments a first agent therapy is administered prior to a second agent therapy. Those of skill in the art understand that the formulations and or routes of administration of the various agents therapies used may vary. The appropriate dosage for co administration can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. In some embodiments when agents therapies are co administered the respective agents therapies are administered at lower dosages than appropriate for their administration alone. Thus co administration is especially desirable in embodiments where the co administration of the agents therapies lowers the requisite dosage of a known potentially harmful e.g. toxic agent s .

As used herein the term toxic refers to any detrimental or harmful effects on a cell or tissue as compared to the same cell or tissue prior to the administration of the toxicant.

As used herein the term pharmaceutical composition refers to the combination of an active agent with a carrier inert or active making the composition especially suitable for diagnostic or therapeutic use in vivo in vivo or ex vivo.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to any of the standard pharmaceutical carriers such as a phosphate buffered saline solution water emulsions e.g. such as an oil water or water oil emulsions and various types of wetting agents. The compositions also can include stabilizers and preservatives. For examples of carriers stabilizers and adjuvants. See e.g. Martin Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 15th Ed. Mack Publ. Co. Easton Pa. 1975 .

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to any pharmaceutically acceptable salt e.g. acid or base of a compound of the present invention which upon administration to a subject is capable of providing a compound of this invention or an active metabolite or residue thereof. As is known to those of skill in the art salts of the compounds of the present invention may be derived from inorganic or organic acids and bases. Examples of acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric nitric perchloric fumaric maleic phosphoric glycolic lactic salicylic succinic toluene p sulfonic tartaric acetic citric methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic formic benzoic malonic naphthalene 2 sulfonic benzenesulfonic acid and the like. Other acids such as oxalic while not in themselves pharmaceutically acceptable may be employed in the preparation of salts useful as intermediates in obtaining the compounds of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts.

Examples of bases include but are not limited to alkali metals e.g. sodium hydroxides alkaline earth metals e.g. magnesium hydroxides ammonia and compounds of formula NW wherein W is Calkyl and the like.

Examples of salts include but are not limited to acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate fumarate flucoheptanoate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate lactate maleate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate persulfate phenylpropionate picrate pivalate propionate succinate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate undecanoate and the like. Other examples of salts include anions of the compounds of the present invention compounded with a suitable cation such as Na NH and NW wherein W is a Calkyl group and the like.

For therapeutic use salts of the compounds of the present invention are contemplated as being pharmaceutically acceptable. However salts of acids and bases that are non pharmaceutically acceptable may also find use for example in the preparation or purification of a pharmaceutically acceptable compound.

As used herein the term modulate refers to the activity of a compound e.g. a compound of the present invention to affect e.g. to promote or retard an aspect of cellular function including but not limited to inhibiting Rho kinase activity.

Rho Kinase ROCK is a member of the serine threonine protein kinase family. ROCK exists in two isoforms ROCK1 and ROCK2 see e.g. T. Ishizaki et al. EMBO J. 1996 15 1885 1893 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . ROCK has been identified as an effector molecule of RhoA a small GTP binding protein G protein that plays a key role in multiple cellular signaling pathways. ROCK and RhoA are ubiquitously expressed across tissues. The RhoA ROCK signaling pathway is involved in a number of cellular functions such as acting organization cell adhesion cell migration and cytokinesis see e.g. K. Riento and A. J. Ridley Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2003 4 446 56 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . It is also directly involved in regulating smooth muscle contraction see e.g. A. P. Somlyo Nature 1997 389 908 911 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Upon activation of its receptor RhoA is activated and in turn it activates ROCK. Activated ROCK phosphorylates the myosin binding subunit of myosin light chain phosphatase which inhibits activity of the phosphatase and leads to contraction. Contraction of the smooth muscle in the vasculature increases blood pressure leading to hypertension. In addition activated ROCK e.g. ROCK2 has been shown to inhibit phosphorylation of IRF4 which in turn results in decreased pro inflammatory cytokine e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 expression see e.g. Biswas et al. J. Clin. Inv. 2010 120 9 3280 3295 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

There is considerable evidence in the literature that the RhoA ROCK signaling pathway plays an important role in signal transduction initiated by several vasoactive factors for example angiotensin II urotension II endothelin 1 serotonin norepinephrine and platelet derived growth factor PDGF . Many of these factors are implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease.

Additional studies in the literature some using known ROCK inhibitors fasudil see e.g. T. Asano et al. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 1987 24 1033 1040 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety or Y 27632 see e.g. M. Uehata et al. Nature 1997 389 990 994 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety further illustrate the link between ROCK and cardiovascular disease. For example ROCK expression and activity have been shown to be elevated in spontaneously hypertensive rats suggesting a link to the development of hypertension in these animals. The ROCK inhibitor Y 27632 see e.g. M. Uehata et al. Nature 1997 389 990 994 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety was shown to significantly decrease blood pressure in three rat models of hypertension including the spontaneously hypertensive rat renal hypertensive rat and deoxycortisone acetate salt hypertensive rat models while having only a minor effect on blood pressure in control rats reinforcing the link between ROCK and hypertension.

Other studies suggest a link between ROCK and atherosclerosis. For example gene transfer of a dominant negative form of ROCK suppressed neointimal formation following balloon injury in porcine femoral arteries. In a similar model ROCK inhibitor Y 27632 also inhibited neointimal formation in rats. In a porcine model of IL 1 beta induced coronary stenosis long term treatment by ROCK inhibitor fasudil was shown to progressively reduce coronary stenosis as well as promote a regression of coronary constrictive remodeling. A link between ROCK and pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 has been demonstrated. For example it has been demonstrated that inhibition of ROCK2 inhibits expression of pro inflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 see e.g. Biswas et al. J. Clin. Inv. 2010 120 9 3280 3295 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety e.g. activated ROCK e.g. ROCK2 was shown to inhibit phosphorylation of IRF4 which in turn resulted in decreased pro inflammatory cytokine e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 expression . Accordingly the present invention provides methods for inhibiting pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 and or disorders related to such pro inflammatory cytokine expression through use of the compounds of the present invention.

Additional investigations suggest that a ROCK inhibitor would be useful in treating other cardiovascular diseases. For example in a rat stroke model fasudil was shown to reduce both the infarct size and neurologic deficit. The ROCK inhibitor Y 27632 was shown to improve ventricular hypertrophy and function in a model of congestive heart failure in Dahl salt sensitive rats.

Other animal or clinical studies have implicated ROCK in additional diseases including coronary vasospasm cerebral vasospasm ischemia reperfusion injury pulmonary hypertension angina renal disease and erectile dysfunction.

The above studies provide evidence for a link between ROCK and cardiovascular diseases including hypertension atherosclerosis see e.g. Retzer et al. FEBS Lett 2000 466 70 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety restenosis see e.g. Eto et al. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 2000 278 H1744 Negoro et al. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 1999 262 211 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties stroke heart failure coronary vasospasm cerebral vasospasm ischemia reperfusion injury see e.g. Uehata et al. Nature 1997 389 990 Seasholtz et al. Circ Res 1999 84 1186 Hitomi et al. Life Sci 2000 67 1929 Yamamoto et al. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 2000 35 203 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties pulmonary hypertension and angina as well as renal disease and erectile dysfunction see e.g. Chitaley et al. Nat Med 2001 7 119 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Given the demonstrated effect of ROCK on smooth muscle ROCK inhibitors may also be useful in other diseases involving smooth muscle hyper reactivity including asthma and glaucoma. Furthermore Rho kinase has been indicated as a drug target for the treatment of various other diseases e.g. cerebral vasospasm see e.g. Sato et al. Circ Res 2000 87 195 Kim et al. Neurosurgery 2000 46 440 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety central nervous system disorders such as neuronal degeneration and spinal cord injury see e.g. Hara et al. J Neurosurg 2000 93 94 Toshima et al. Stroke 2000 31 2245 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties in neoplasias where inhibition of Rho kinase has been shown to inhibit tumor cell growth and metastasis see e.g. Itoh et al. Nat Med 1999 5 221 Somlyo et al. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2000 269 652 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties angiogenesis see e.g. Uchida et al. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2000 269 633 Gingras et al. Biochem J 2000 348 Pt 2 273 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties arterial thrombotic disorders such as platelet aggregation see e.g. Klages et al. J Cell Biol 1999 144 745 Retzer et al. Cell Signal 2000 12 645 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties leukocyte aggregation see e.g. Kawaguchi et al. Eur J Pharmacol 2000 403 203 Sanchez Madrid et al. Embo J 1999 18 501 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties asthma see e.g. Setoguchi et al. Br J Pharmacol 2001 132 111 Nakahara et al. Eur J Pharmacol 2000 389 103 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties regulation of intraoccular pressure see e.g. Honjo et al. Invest Opthalmol V is Sci 2001 42 137 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and bone resorption see e.g. Chellaiah et al. J Biol Chem 2000 275 11993 Zhang et al. J Cell Sci 1995 108 2285 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

Although there are many reports of ROCK inhibitors under investigation see e.g. E. Hu and D. Lee Expert Opin. Ther. Targets 2005 9 715 736 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety so far fasudil is the only marketed ROCK inhibitor. Accordingly there remains a need for new therapeutics including ROCK inhibitors for the treatment of disorders involving ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome and autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome and systemic sclerosis .

The present invention provides novel chemical compounds characterized as Rho kinase ROCK inhibitors methods for their discovery and their therapeutic research and diagnostic use. In particular the present invention provides 1 4 benzodiazepine 2 5 dione compounds and related compounds having ROCK inhibitory activity and methods of using such compounds as therapeutic agents to treat a number of conditions associated with ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome and autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome and systemic sclerosis .

In some embodiments the disorder is an autoimmune disorder. Examples of autoimmune disorders include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus Celiac Sprue idiopathic thrombocytopenic thrombotic purpura myasthenia gravis Sjogren s syndrome scleroderma or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In certain other embodiments the autoimmune disorder is psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease systemic lupus erythematosus or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is a type of psoriasis selected from the group consisting of plaque psoriasis guttate psoriasis inverse psoriasis pustular psoriasis and erythrodermic psoriasis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is inflammatory bowel disease or ulcerative colitis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder associated with or arising from activity of pathogenic lymphocytes. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder susceptible to treatment by administering to a patient with the immune disorder an active agent that inhibits mitochondrial respiration.

In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is arthritis juvenile arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile enteropathic arthritis juvenile reactive arthritis juvenile Reter s Syndrome SEA Syndrome juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile psoriatic arthritis juvenile scleroderma juvenile systemic lupus erythematosus juvenile vasculitis pauciarticular rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset rheumatoid arthritis ankylosing spondylitis enteropathic arthritis reactive arthritis uveitis Reter s Syndrome dermatomyositis psoriatic arthritis vasculitis myolitis polymyolitis dermatomyolitis osteoarthritis polyarteritis nodossa Wegener s granulomatosis arteritis ploymyalgia rheumatica sarcoidosis sclerosis primary biliary sclerosis sclerosing cholangitis dermatitis atopic dermatitis Still s disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Guillain Barre disease Graves disease Addison s disease Raynaud s phenomenon or autoimmune hepatitis.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for inhibiting pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 and or disorders related to pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. inflammatory disorders . The present invention is not limited to a particular technique. The methods are not limited to a particular manner of pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition. For example in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition is achieved through inhibition of ROCK2 which for example thereby inhibits IRF4 expression e.g. through prevention of IRF4 phosphorylation which for example inhibits IL17 and or IL 21 expression.

Exemplary compositions and methods of the present invention are described in more detail in the following sections I. Exemplary Compounds II. Pharmaceutical compositions formulations and exemplary administration routes and dosing considerations III. Drug screens and IV. Therapeutic Applications.

The practice of the present invention employs unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of organic chemistry pharmacology molecular biology including recombinant techniques cell biology biochemistry and immunology which are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature such as Molecular cloning a laboratory manual Second Edition Sambrook et al. 1989 Oligonucleotide synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Animal cell culture R. I. Freshney ed. 1987 the series Methods in enzymology Academic Press Inc. Handbook of experimental immunology D. M. Weir C. C. Blackwell eds. Gene transfer vectors for mammalian cells J. M. Miller M. P. Calos eds. 1987 Current protocols in molecular biology F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. 1987 and periodic updates PCR the polymerase chain reaction Mullis et al. eds. 1994 and Current protocols in immunology J. E. Coligan et al. eds. 1991 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary compounds of the present invention are provided below. Certain 1 4 benzodiazepine 2 5 dione derivatives have been described see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 700 101 U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 744 Kamal et al. 2004 Synlett 14 2533 2535 Hulme et al. 1998 J. Org. Chem. 63 8021 8022 Raboisson et al. 2005 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 1857 1861 Raboisson et al. 2005 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 765 770 Rabiosson et al. 2005 J. Med. Chem. 48 909 912 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0111994 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties . The present invention provides novel 1 4 benzodiazepine 2 5 dione compounds and related compounds and uses for such compounds.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compounds configured to inhibit Rho kinase activity. The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of Rho kinase inhibitor. Experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds capable of inhibiting ROCK activity e.g. inhibiting ROCK1 and or ROCK2 activity . In addition experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds as selective ROCK inhibitors e.g. compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK1 activity over ROCK2 activity e.g. compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 activity see e.g. compounds 1 5 as described in Table 1 and Example II . While not limited to the particular compounds the present invention provides Rho kinase activity inhibiting compounds described by a formula selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments Ris selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl hexyl isopropyl and substituted alkyl.

In some embodiments R3 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen H CH ethyl hexyl isopropyl halogen OH a chemical moiety comprising an aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ester subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ether subgroup a linear or branched saturated or unsaturated substituted or non substituted aliphatic chain having at least 2 carbons a chemical moiety comprising Sulfur a chemical moiety comprising Nitrogen OR wherein R is selected from the group consisting of a chemical moiety comprising an aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted aryl subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted cycloaliphatic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a heterocyclic subgroup a chemical moiety comprising a substituted heterocyclic subgroup a linear or branched saturated or unsaturated substituted or non substituted aliphatic chain having at least 2 carbons a chemical moiety comprising at least one ester subgroup a chemical moiety comprising at least one ether subgroup a chemical moiety comprising Sulfur a chemical moiety comprising Nitrogen.

In some embodiments R5 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl substituted alkyl mono substituted aryl di substituted aryl and tri substituted aryl.

In some embodiments R7 R8 R9 and R10 are independently selected from the group consisting of being absent H halogen CF3 

In some embodiments R11 R12 R13 and R14 are independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl e.g. unsubstituted alkyl fluoroalkyl 

In some embodiments R15 R16 R17 and R18 are independently selected from the group consisting of C N O and S.

In some embodiments R19 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl ketone a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising nitrogen a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising oxygen and a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising sulfur.

In some embodiments R20 is selected from the group consisting of H alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl ketone a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising nitrogen a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising oxygen and a chemical moiety e.g. substituted alkyl unsubstituted alkyl comprising sulfur.

In some embodiments R21 R22 R23 and R24 are independently selected from the group consisting of being absent H halogen CF3 

In some embodiments R25 R26 R27 and R28 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl e.g. substituted alkyl e.g. unsubstituted alkyl fluoroalkyl 

Experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention identified compounds that selectively inhibit ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. Table 1 and Example II . As such the present invention provides the following compounds that selectively ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 

From the above description it is apparent that many specific examples are represented by the generic formulas presented above. A wide variety of sub combinations arising from selecting a particular group at each substituent position are possible and all such combinations are within the scope of this invention. The experimental examples provided below describe biological activities of these compounds and provide assays for assessing activities of derivatives or other related compounds.

In summary a large number of compounds are presented herein. Any one or more of these compounds can be used to treat a variety of disorders related to ROCK activity as described elsewhere herein e.g. cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome and autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome and systemic sclerosis . Additionally any one or more of these compounds can be used in combination with at least one other therapeutic agent e.g. potassium channel openers calcium channel blockers sodium hydrogen exchanger inhibitors antiarrhythmic agents antiatherosclerotic agents anticoagulants antithrombotic agents prothrombolytic agents fibrinogen antagonists diuretics antihypertensive agents ATPase inhibitors mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists phosphodiesterase inhibitors antidiabetic agents anti inflammatory agents antioxidants angiogenesis modulators antiosteoporosis agents hormone replacement therapies hormone receptor modulators oral contraceptives antiobesity agents antidepressants antianxiety agents antipsychotic agents antiproliferative agents antitumor agents antiulcer and gastroesophageal reflux disease agents growth hormone agents and or growth hormone secretagogues thyroid mimetics anti infective agents antiviral agents antibacterial agents antifungal agents cholesterol lipid lowering agents and lipid profile therapies and agents that mimic ischemic preconditioning and or myocardial stunning antiatherosclerotic agents anticoagulants antithrombotic agents antihypertensive agents antidiabetic agents and antihypertensive agents selected from ACE inhibitors AT 1 receptor antagonists ET receptor antagonists dual ET AII receptor antagonists and vasopepsidase inhibitors or an antiplatelet agent selected from GPIIb IIIa blockers P2Yand P2Yantagonists thromboxane receptor antagonists and aspirin along with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent in a pharmaceutical composition. The above described compounds can also be used in drug screening assays and other diagnostic and research methods.

III. Pharmaceutical Compositions Formulations and Exemplary Administration Routes and Dosing Considerations

Exemplary embodiments of various contemplated medicaments and pharmaceutical compositions are provided below.

The compounds of the present invention are useful in the preparation of medicaments to treat a variety of conditions associated with ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular diseases cancer neurological diseases renal diseases bronchial asthma erectile dysfunction and glaucoma . In addition the compounds are also useful for preparing medicaments for treating other disorders wherein the effectiveness of the compounds are known or predicted. The methods and techniques for preparing medicaments of a compound of the present invention are well known in the art. Exemplary pharmaceutical formulations and routes of delivery are described below.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that any one or more of the compounds described herein including the many specific embodiments are prepared by applying standard pharmaceutical manufacturing procedures. Such medicaments can be delivered to the subject by using delivery methods that are well known in the pharmaceutical arts.

In some embodiments of the present invention the compositions are administered alone while in some other embodiments the compositions are preferably present in a pharmaceutical formulation comprising at least one active ingredient agent as defined above together with a solid support or alternatively together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and optionally other therapeutic agents. Each carrier should be acceptable in the sense that it is compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the subject.

Contemplated formulations include those suitable oral rectal nasal topical including transdermal buccal and sublingual vaginal parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous and intradermal and pulmonary administration. In some embodiments formulations are conveniently presented in unit dosage form and are prepared by any method known in the art of pharmacy. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association e.g. mixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets wherein each preferably contains a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules as a solution or suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. In other embodiments the active ingredient is presented as a bolus electuary or paste etc.

In some embodiments tablets comprise at least one active ingredient and optionally one or more accessory agents carriers are made by compressing or molding the respective agents. In preferred embodiments compressed tablets are prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder e.g. povidone gelatin hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose lubricant inert diluent preservative disintegrant e.g. sodium starch glycolate cross linked povidone cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets are made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound e.g. active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile. Tablets may optionally be provided with an enteric coating to provide release in parts of the gut other than the stomach.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Pharmaceutical compositions for topical administration according to the present invention are optionally formulated as ointments creams suspensions lotions powders solutions pastes gels sprays aerosols or oils. In alternative embodiments topical formulations comprise patches or dressings such as a bandage or adhesive plasters impregnated with active ingredient s and optionally one or more excipients or diluents. In preferred embodiments the topical formulations include a compound s that enhances absorption or penetration of the active agent s through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethylsulfoxide DMSO and related analogues.

If desired the aqueous phase of a cream base includes for example at least about 30 w w of a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments oily phase emulsions of this invention are constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. This phase typically comprises a lone emulsifier otherwise known as an emulgent it is also desirable in some embodiments for this phase to further comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil.

Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier so as to act as a stabilizer. In some embodiments it is also preferable to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and or fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations.

Emulgents and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the present invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl monostearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

The choice of suitable oils or fats for the formulation is based on achieving the desired properties e.g. cosmetic properties since the solubility of the active compound agent in most oils likely to be used in pharmaceutical emulsion formulations is very low. Thus creams should preferably be a non greasy non staining and washable products with suitable consistency to avoid leakage from tubes or other containers. Straight or branched chain mono or dibasic alkyl esters such as di isoadipate isocetyl stearate propylene glycol diester of coconut fatty acids isopropyl myristate decyl oleate isopropyl palmitate butyl stearate 2 ethylhexyl palmitate or a blend of branched chain esters known as Crodamol CAP may be used the last three being preferred esters. These may be used alone or in combination depending on the properties required. Alternatively high melting point lipids such as white soft paraffin and or liquid paraffin or other mineral oils can be used.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the agent.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the agent such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Formulations suitable for nasal administration wherein the carrier is a solid include coarse powders having a particle size for example in the range of about 20 to about 500 microns which are administered in the manner in which snuff is taken i.e. by rapid inhalation e.g. forced through the nasal passage from a container of the powder held close up to the nose. Other suitable formulations wherein the carrier is a liquid for administration include but are not limited to nasal sprays drops or aerosols by nebulizer an include aqueous or oily solutions of the agents.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which may contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents and liposomes or other microparticulate systems which are designed to target the compound to blood components or one or more organs. In some embodiments the formulations are presented formulated in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers for example ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injections immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described.

Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily subdose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of an agent.

It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the formulations of this invention may include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question for example those suitable for oral administration may include such further agents as sweeteners thickeners and flavoring agents. It also is intended that the agents compositions and methods of this invention be combined with other suitable compositions and therapies. Still other formulations optionally include food additives suitable sweeteners flavorings colorings etc. phytonutrients e.g. flax seed oil minerals e.g. Ca Fe K etc. vitamins and other acceptable compositions e.g. conjugated linoelic acid extenders and stabilizers etc.

Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer therapeutic agents e.g. exemplary compounds as described in Section I above of the present invention e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules receptor mediated endocytosis and the like. Methods of delivery include but are not limited to intra arterial intra muscular intravenous intranasal and oral routes. In specific embodiments it may be desirable to administer the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention locally to the area in need of treatment this may be achieved by for example and not by way of limitation local infusion during surgery injection or by means of a catheter.

The agents identified can be administered to subjects or individuals susceptible to or at risk of developing pathological growth of target cells and correlated conditions. When the agent is administered to a subject such as a mouse a rat or a human patient the agent can be added to a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and systemically or topically administered to the subject. To identify patients that can be beneficially treated a tissue sample is removed from the patient and the cells are assayed for sensitivity to the agent. Therapeutic amounts are empirically determined and vary with the pathology being treated the subject being treated and the efficacy and toxicity of the agent.

In some embodiments in vivo administration is effected in one dose continuously or intermittently throughout the course of treatment. Methods of determining the most effective means and dosage of administration are well known to those of skill in the art and vary with the composition used for therapy the purpose of the therapy the target cell being treated and the subject being treated. Single or multiple administrations are carried out with the dose level and pattern being selected by the treating physician.

Suitable dosage formulations and methods of administering the agents are readily determined by those of skill in the art. Preferably the compounds are administered at about 0.01 mg kg to about 200 mg kg more preferably at about 0.1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg even more preferably at about 0.5 mg kg to about 50 mg kg. When the compounds described herein are co administered with another agent e.g. as sensitizing agents the effective amount may be less than when the agent is used alone.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered orally intranasally parenterally or by inhalation therapy and may take the form of tablets lozenges granules capsules pills ampoules suppositories or aerosol form. They may also take the form of suspensions solutions and emulsions of the active ingredient in aqueous or nonaqueous diluents syrups granulates or powders. In addition to an agent of the present invention the pharmaceutical compositions can also contain other pharmaceutically active compounds or a plurality of compounds of the invention.

More particularly an agent of the present invention also referred to herein as the active ingredient may be administered for therapy by any suitable route including but not limited to oral rectal nasal topical including but not limited to transdermal aerosol buccal and sublingual vaginal parental including but not limited to subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous and intradermal and pulmonary. It is also appreciated that the preferred route varies with the condition and age of the recipient and the disease being treated.

Ideally the agent should be administered to achieve peak concentrations of the active compound at sites of disease. This may be achieved for example by the intravenous injection of the agent optionally in saline or orally administered for example as a tablet capsule or syrup containing the active ingredient.

Desirable blood levels of the agent may be maintained by a continuous infusion to provide a therapeutic amount of the active ingredient within disease tissue. The use of operative combinations is contemplated to provide therapeutic combinations requiring a lower total dosage of each component antiviral agent than may be required when each individual therapeutic compound or drug is used alone thereby reducing adverse effects.

The present invention also includes methods involving co administration of the compounds described herein with one or more additional active agents. Indeed it is a further aspect of this invention to provide methods for enhancing prior art therapies and or pharmaceutical compositions by co administering a compound of this invention. In co administration procedures the agents may be administered concurrently or sequentially. In one embodiment the compounds described herein are administered prior to the other active agent s . The pharmaceutical formulations and modes of administration may be any of those described above. In addition the two or more co administered chemical agents biological agents or radiation may each be administered using different modes or different formulations.

The agent or agents to be co administered depends on the type of condition being treated. For example when the condition being treated is cancer the additional agent can be a chemotherapeutic agent or radiation. When the condition being treated is an autoimmune disorder the additional agent can be an immunosuppressant or an anti inflammatory agent. When the condition being treated is chronic inflammation the additional agent can be an anti inflammatory agent. The additional agents to be co administered such as anticancer immunosuppressant anti inflammatory and can be any of the well known agents in the art including but not limited to those that are currently in clinical use. The determination of appropriate type and dosage of radiation treatment is also within the skill in the art or can be determined with relative ease.

In some embodiments of the present invention the compounds of the present invention and other potentially useful compounds are screened for ROCK modulating e.g. activating inhibiting activity. In some embodiments of the present invention the compounds of the present invention and other potentially useful compounds are screened for ROCK modulating e.g. activating inhibiting activity through assessment of pro inflammatory cytokine activity e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 and or pathways related to pro inflammatory cytokine activity eg. IRF 4 .

A number of suitable screens for measuring the binding affinity of drugs and other small molecules to receptors are known in the art. In some embodiments binding affinity screens are conducted in in vitro systems. In other embodiments these screens are conducted in in vivo or ex vivo systems.

In particularly preferred embodiments the compositions of the present invention are contemplated to provide therapeutic benefits to patients suffering from any one or more of a number of conditions associated with ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular diseases cancer neurological diseases renal diseases bronchial asthma erectile dysfunction and glaucoma by modulating e.g. inhibiting or promoting ROCK activity in affected cells or tissues. In further preferred embodiments the compositions of the present invention are used to treat conditions and or disorders associated with ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular diseases cancer neurological diseases renal diseases bronchial asthma erectile dysfunction and glaucoma .

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods e.g. therapeutic applications for regulating inhibiting Rho kinase activity comprising a providing i. target cells having Rho kinase activity and ii. a composition e.g. exemplary compounds as described in Section I above and b exposing the target cells to the composition under conditions such that the exposure results in inhibition e.g. reduction cessation of Rho kinase activity. The methods of the present invention are not limited to particular target cells. In some embodiments the target cells are selected from the group consisting of in vitro cells in vivo cells ex vivo cells smooth muscle cells non smooth muscle cells and cancer cells. The present invention is not limited to a particular therapeutic application.

In some embodiments the compositions of the present invention are contemplated to provide therapeutic benefits to patients suffering from any one or more of a number of conditions associated with aberrant ROCK activity e.g. cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome and autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome and systemic sclerosis by modulating e.g. inhibiting or promoting the activity of ROCK in affected cells or tissues.

In some embodiments the condition associated with aberrant ROCK activity is related to pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 e.g. inflammatory disorders . For example it has been demonstrated that inhibition of ROCK2 results in inhibited expression of pro inflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 see e.g. Biswas et al. J. Clin. Inv. 2010 120 9 3280 3295 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Accordingly in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 inhibition is accomplished through use of any of the compounds of the present invention that selectively inhibits ROCK2 activity over ROCK1 see e.g. compounds 1 5 as shown in Table 1 and Example II . The methods are not limited to a particular manner of pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 inhibition. For example in some embodiments pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 inhibition is achieved through inhibition of ROCK2 which for example thereby inhibits IRF4 expression e.g. through prevention of IRF4 phosphorylation which for example inhibits IL17 and or IL 21 expression.

In some embodiments the compositions of the present invention provide methods for treating a subject with a disorder and or condition associated with aberrant ROCK activity. In some embodiments the methods involve administering to a subject suffering from a disorder and or condition associated with aberrant ROCK activity a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention e.g. a compound described in Section I under conditions such that ROCK activity is modulated e.g. increased or diminished .

The present invention is not limited to treating particular disorders and or conditions associate with aberrant ROCK activity. In certain embodiments said compounds find use in treating acute and chronic pain and inflammation. For example the compounds of the present invention find use in treating subjects with neuropathy neuropathic pain or inflammatory pain such as reflex sympathetic dystrophy causalgia nerve injury peripheral neuropathy including diabetic neuropathy intractable cancer pain complex regional pain syndrome and entrapment neuropathy carpel tunnel syndrome . The compounds may also be useful in the treatment of pain associated with acute herpes zoster shingles postherpetic neuralgia PHN and associated pain syndromes such as ocular pain. The compounds may further be useful as analgesics in the treatment of pain such as surgical analgesia or as an antipyretic for the treatment of fever. Pain indications include but are not limited to post surgical pain for various surgical procedures including post cardiac surgery dental pain dental extraction pain resulting from cancer muscular pain mastalgia pain resulting from dermal injuries lower back pain headaches of various etiologies including migraine and the like. The compounds may also be useful for the treatment of pain related disorders such as tactile allodynia and hyperalgesia. The pain may be somatogenic either nociceptive or neuropathic acute and or chronic. The compounds of the present invention may also be useful in conditions where NSAIDs morphine or fentanyl opiates and or other opioid analgesics would traditionally be administered.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment or prevention of opiate tolerance in subjects needing for example protracted opiate analgesics and benzodiazepine tolerance in patients taking benzodiazepines and other addictive behavior for example nicotine addiction alcoholism and eating disorders. Moreover the compounds and methods of the present invention are used in the treatment or prevention of drug withdrawal symptoms for example treatment or prevention of symptoms of withdrawal from opiate alcohol or tobacco addiction.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used to treat insulin resistance and other metabolic disorders such as atherosclerosis that are typically associated with an exaggerated inflammatory signaling.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used to treat or prevent respiratory disease or conditions including therapeutic methods of use in medicine for preventing and treating a respiratory disease or condition including asthmatic conditions including allergen induced asthma exercise induced asthma pollution induced asthma cold induced asthma and viral induced asthma asthma related diseases such as airway hyperreactivity and small airway disease chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases including chronic bronchitis with normal airflow chronic bronchitis with airway obstruction chronic obstructive bronchitis emphysema asthmatic bronchitis and bullous disease and other pulmonary diseases involving inflammation including bronchiolitis bronchioectasis cystic fibrosis pigeon fancier s disease farmer s lung acute respiratory distress syndrome pneumonia pneumonitis aspiration or inhalation injury fat embolism in the lung acidosis inflammation of the lung acute pulmonary edema acute mountain sickness acute pulmonary hypertension persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn perinatal aspiration syndrome hyaline membrane disease acute pulmonary thromboembolism heparin protamine reactions sepsis status asthamticus hypoxia dyspnea hypercapnea hyperinflation hypoxemia and cough. Further the compounds of the present invention find use in the treatment of allergic disorders such as delayed type hypersensitivity reaction allergic contact dermatitis allergic rhinitis and chronic sinusitis.

Other disorders or conditions which may be treated by the compounds of the present invention include inflammation and related disorders. For example the compounds are used to treat arthritis including but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis spondyloarthropathies gouty arthritis osteoarthritis juvenile arthritis acute rheumatic arthritis enteropathic arthritis neuropathic arthritis psoriatic arthritis reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome and pyogenic arthritis and autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus hemolytic syndromes autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune neuropathy vitiglio autoimmune thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis anemias myositis including polymyositis alopecia greata Goodpasture s syndrome hypophytis and pulmonary fibrosis.

In some embodiments the compounds are used in treating osteoporosis and other related bone disorders.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used to treat gastrointestinal conditions such as reflux esophagitis diarrhea inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease gastritis irritable bowel syndrome Graves disease hyperthyroidism necrotizing enterocolitis and ulcerative colitis. The compounds may also be used in the treatment of pulmonary inflammation such as that associated with viral infections and cystic fibrosis.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used treating organ transplant patients either alone or in combination with conventional immunomodulators. Examples of conditions to be treated in said patients include graft vs. host reaction i.e. graft vs. host disease allograft rejections e.g. acute allograft rejection and chronic allograft rejection transplant reperfusion injury and early transplantation rejection e.g. acute allograft rejection .

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment of pruritis and vitaligo.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in treating tissue damage in such diseases as vascular diseases migraine headaches periarteritis nodosa thyroiditis aplastic anemia Hodgkin s disease sclerodoma rheumatic fever type I diabetes neuromuscular junction disease including myasthenia gravis white matter disease including multiple sclerosis sarcoidosis nephritis nephrotic syndrome Langerhans cell histiocytosis glomerulonephritis reperfusion injury pancreatitis interstitial cystitis Behcet s syndrome polymyositis gingivitis periodontis hypersensitivity swelling occurring after injury ischemias including myocardial ischemia cardiovascular ischemia and ischemia secondary to cardiac arrest cirrhosis septic shock endotoxic shock gram negative sepsis toxic shock syndrome stroke ischemia reperfusion injury multi organ dysfunction restenosis including restenosis following coronary bypass surgery and the like.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment of certain diseases and disorders of the nervous system. Central nervous system disorders in which Rho kinase inhibition may be useful include cortical dementias including Alzheimer s disease and mild cognitive impairment MCI central nervous system damage resulting from stroke ischemias including cerebral ischemia both focal ischemia thrombotic stroke and global ischemia for example secondary to cardiac arrest and trauma. Neurodegenerative disorders in which Rho kinase inhibition may be useful include nerve degeneration or nerve necrosis in disorders such as hypoxia hypoglycemia epilepsy and in cases of central nervous system CNS trauma such as spinal cord and head injury hyperbaric oxygen convulsions and toxicity dementia e.g. pre senile dementia and AIDS related dementia cachexia Sydenham s chorea Huntington s disease Parkinson s Disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS multiple sclerosis Korsakoffs syndrome and imbecility relating to a cerebral vessel disorder. Further disorders in which Rho kinase inhibition might prove useful include neuropathies of the central and peripheral nervous system including for example IgA neuropathy membranous neuropathy and idiopathic neuropathy chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy transverse myelitis Gullain Barre disease encephalitis and cancers of the nervous system. Disorders of CNS function in which Rho kinase inhibitors may find use include sleeping disorders schizophrenia depression depression or other symptoms associated with Premenstrual Syndrome PMS and anxiety.

Furthermore the compounds of the present invention are used in inhibiting Rho kinase activity for the amelioration of systemic disorders including septic and or toxic hemorrhagic shock induced by a wide variety of agents as a therapy with cytokines such as TNF IL 1 and IL 2 and as an adjuvant to short term immunosuppression in transplant therapy.

Still other disorders or conditions which may be treated by the compounds of the present invention include the prevention or treatment of cancer such as colorectal cancer and cancer of the breast lung prostate bladder cervix and skin. Compounds of the invention may be used in the treatment and prevention of neoplasias including but not limited to brain cancer bone cancer leukemia lymphoma epithelial cell derived neoplasia epithelial carcinoma such as basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma gastrointestinal cancer such as lip cancer mouth cancer esophageal cancer small bowel cancer and stomach cancer colon cancer liver cancer bladder cancer pancreas cancer ovary cancer cervical cancer lung cancer breast cancer and skin cancer such as squamous cell and basal cell cancers prostate cancer renal cell carcinoma and other known cancers that effect epithelial cells throughout the body. The neoplasia can be selected from gastrointestinal cancer liver cancer bladder cancer pancreas cancer ovary cancer prostate cancer cervical cancer lung cancer breast cancer and skin cancer such as squamous cell and basal cell cancers. The present compounds and methods may also be used to treat the fibrosis which occurs with radiation therapy. The present compounds and methods may be used to treat subjects having adenomatous polyps including those with familial adenomatous polyposis FAP . Additionally the present compounds and methods may be used to prevent polyps from forming in patients at risk of FAP.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment of ophthalmic diseases such as dry eye glaucoma corneal neovascularization optic neuritis Sjogren s syndrome retinal ganglion degeneration ocular ischemia retinitis retinopathies uveitis ocular photophobia and of inflammation and pain associated with acute injury to the eye tissue. In some embodiments the compounds are used to treat glaucomatous retinopathy and or diabetic retinopathy. In some embodiments the compounds are used to treat post operative inflammation or pain as from ophthalmic surgery such as cataract surgery and refractive surgery.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment of menstrual cramps dysmenorrhea premature labor endometriosis tendonitis bursitis skin related conditions such as psoriasis eczema burns sunburn dermatitis pancreatitis hepatitis lichen planus scleritis scleroderma dermatomyositis and the like. Other conditions in which the compounds of the present invention are used include diabetes type I or type II myocarditis pathological angiogenesis and aortic aneurysm.

Moreover compounds of the present invention are used in the treatment of cardiovascular disease such as angina coronary artery vasospasm myocardial infarction coronary ischemia congestive heart failure cardiac allograft vasculopathy vein graft disease and vascular restenosis ischemic reperfusion injury cerebral artery vasospasm stroke cerebral ischemia essential hypertension pulmonary hypertension renal hypertension and other secondary hypertensive disorders atherosclerosis and erectile dysfunction.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used to treat autoimmune disorders. Examples of autoimmune disorders include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus Celiac Sprue idiopathic thrombocytopenic thrombotic purpura myasthenia gravis Sjogren s syndrome scleroderma or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In certain other embodiments the autoimmune disorder is psoriasis chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease Crohn s disease systemic lupus erythematosus or psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia. In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is a type of psoriasis selected from the group consisting of plaque psoriasis guttate psoriasis inverse psoriasis pustular psoriasis and erythrodermic psoriasis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is inflammatory bowel disease or ulcerative colitis. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder associated with or arising from activity of pathogenic lymphocytes. In some embodiments the immune disorder is an immune disorder susceptible to treatment by administering to a patient with the immune disorder an active agent that inhibits mitochondrial respiration.

In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is arthritis juvenile arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile enteropathic arthritis juvenile reactive arthritis juvenile Reter s Syndrome SEA Syndrome juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile psoriatic arthritis juvenile scleroderma juvenile systemic lupus erythematosus juvenile vasculitis pauciarticular rheumatoid arthritis polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis systemic onset rheumatoid arthritis ankylosing spondylitis enteropathic arthritis reactive arthritis uveitis Reter s Syndrome dermatomyositis psoriatic arthritis vasculitis myolitis polymyolitis dermatomyolitis osteoarthritis polyarteritis nodossa Wegener s granulomatosis arteritis ploymyalgia rheumatica sarcoidosis sclerosis primary biliary sclerosis sclerosing cholangitis dermatitis atopic dermatitis Still s disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Guillain Barre disease Graves disease Addison s disease Raynaud s phenomenon or autoimmune hepatitis.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are used to treat disorders related to pro inflammatory cytokine expression e.g. IL 17 and or IL 21 e.g. pathways related to IL 17 and or IL 21 expression e.g. IRF4 . In some embodiments the disorder is an inflammatory disorder. Inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis osteoarthritis degenerative arthritis polymyalgia rheumatic ankylosing spondylitis reactive arthritis gout pseudogout inflammatory joint disease systemic lupus erythematosus polymyositis and fibromyalgia. Additional types of arthritis include achilles tendinitis achondroplasia acromegalic arthropathy adhesive capsulitis adult onset Still s disease anserine bursitis avascular necrosis Behcet s syndrome bicipital tendinitis Blount s disease brucellar spondylitis bursitis calcaneal bursitis calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease CPPD crystal deposition disease Caplan s syndrome carpal tunnel syndrome chondrocalcinosis chondromalacia patellae chronic synovitis chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome corticosteroid induced osteoporosis costosternal syndrome CREST syndrome cryoglobulinemia degenerative joint disease dermatomyositis diabetic finger sclerosis diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis DISH discitis discoid lupus erythematosus drug induced lupus Duchenne s muscular dystrophy Dupuytren s contracture Ehlers Danlos syndrome enteropathic arthritis epicondylitis erosive inflammatory osteoarthritis exercise induced compartment syndrome Fabry s disease familial Mediterranean fever Farber s lipogranulomatosis Felty s syndrome Fifth s disease flat feet foreign body synovitis Freiberg s disease fungal arthritis Gaucher s disease giant cell arteritis gonococcal arthritis Goodpasture s syndrome granulomatous arteritis hemarthrosis hemochromatosis Henoch Schonlein purpura Hepatitis B surface antigen disease hip dysplasia Hurler syndrome hypermobility syndrome hypersensitivity vasculitis hypertrophic osteoarthropathy immune complex disease impingement syndrome Jaccoud s arthropathy juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki disease Kienbock s disease Legg Calve Perthes disease Lesch Nyhan syndrome linear scleroderma lipoid dermatoarthritis Lofgren s syndrome Lyme disease malignant synovioma Marfan s syndrome medial plica syndrome metastatic carcinomatous arthritis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD mixed cryoglobulinemia mucopolysaccharidosis multicentric reticulohistiocytosis multiple epiphyseal dysplasia mycoplasmal arthritis myofascial pain syndrome neonatal lupus neuropathic arthropathy nodular panniculitis ochronosis olecranon bursitis Osgood Schlatter s disease osteoarthritis osteochondromatosis osteogenesis imperfecta osteomalacia osteomyelitis osteonecrosis osteoporosis overlap syndrome pachydermoperiostosis Paget s disease of bone palindromic rheumatism patellofemoral pain syndrome Pellegrini Stieda syndrome pigmented villonodular synovitis piriformis syndrome plantar fasciitis polyarteritis nodos Polymyalgia rheumatic polymyositis popliteal cysts posterior tibial tendinitis Pott s disease prepatellar bursitis prosthetic joint infection pseudoxanthoma elasticum psoriatic arthritis Raynaud s phenomenon reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome relapsing polychondritis retrocalcaneal bursitis rheumatic fever rheumatoid vasculitis rotator cuff tendinitis sacroiliitis salmonella osteomyelitis sarcoidosis saturnine gout Scheuermann s osteochondritis scleroderma septic arthritis seronegative arthritis shigella arthritis shoulder hand syndrome sickle cell arthropathy Sjogren s syndrome slipped capital femoral epiphysis spinal stenosis spondylolysis staphylococcus arthritis Stickler syndrome subacute cutaneous lupus Sweet s syndrome Sydenham s chorea syphilitic arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Takayasu s arteritis tarsal tunnel syndrome tennis elbow Tietse s syndrome transient osteoporosis traumatic arthritis trochanteric bursitis tuberculosis arthritis arthritis of Ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue syndrome UCTS urticarial vasculitis viral arthritis Wegener s granulomatosis Whipple s disease Wilson s disease and yersinial arthritis.

In certain embodiments disorders and or conditions associated with aberrant ROCK activity include but are not limited to cardiovascular disorders e.g. angina e.g. angina pectoris atherosclerosis stroke cerebrovascular disease e.g. cerebral thrombosis cerebral embolism and cerebral hemorrhage congestive heart failure coronary artery disease myocardial infarction peripheral vascular disease stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension smooth muscle related disorders e.g. glaucoma erectile dysfunction bronchial asthma granulomatosus disorders e.g. sarcoidosis Wegener s granulomatosus acute macrophage mediated diseases e.g. adult respiratory distress syndrome and autoimmune disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome and systemic sclerosis .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat angina e.g. antiplatelet agents e.g. aspirin ticlopidine clopidogrel beta andrenergic blocking agents e.g. metoprolol carvedilol propranolol atenolol calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine diltiazem verapamil short acting nitroglycerins e.g. nitroglycerin long acting nitroglycerins e.g. isosorbide angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g. ramipril anti ischemic agents e.g. ranolazine If inhibitors e.g. ivabradine and statins e.g. rosuvastatin atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin simvastatin and any combination thereof .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat autoimmune disorders and or inflammatory disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis . Examples of such agents include but are not limited to disease modifying antirheumatic drugs e.g. leflunomide methotrexate sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine biologic agents e.g. rituximab infliximab etanercept adalimumab golimumab nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs e.g. ibuprofen celecoxib ketoprofen naproxen piroxicam diclofenac analgesics e.g. acetaminophen tramadol immunomodulators e.g. anakinra abatacept and glucocorticoids e.g. prednisone methylprednisone IL 1 inhibitors and metalloprotease inhibitors.

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat atherosclerosis e.g. statin e.g. rosuvastatin atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin simvastatin and any combination thereof fibric acid derivatives e.g. fenofibrate gemfibrozil bile acid sequestrants e.g. cholestyramine colestipol antioxidants e.g. vitamin E and nicotinic acid derivatives e.g. niacin .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat stroke e.g. anticoagulation agents e.g. heparin warfarin enoxaparin dalteparin tinzaparin unfractionated heparin repurfusion agents e.g. thrombolytics e.g. alteplase urokinase streptokinase fibrinolytic agents e.g. alteplase reteplase urokinase streptokinase and antiplatelet agents e.g. aspirin ticlopidine clopidogrel .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat a cerebral thrombosis e.g. anticoagulant agents e.g. heparin warfarin enoxaparin dalteparin tinzaparin unfractionated heparin and thrombolytics e.g. alteplase reteplase urokinase streptokinase .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat a cerebral embolism e.g. fibrinolytic agents e.g. alteplase reteplase urokinase streptokinase anticoagulant agents e.g. heparin warfarin enoxaparin dalteparin tinzaparin unfractionated heparin .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat a cerebral hemorrhage e.g. antihypertensive agents e.g. labetalol nicardipine osmotic diuretics e.g. mannitol antipyretics analgesics e.g. acetaminophen anticonvulsants e.g. fosphenyloin antidotes e.g. phytonadione vitamin K protamine sulfate antacids e.g. famotidine .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat congestive heart failure e.g. diuretics e.g. furosemide metolazone nitrates e.g. nitroglycerin nitroprusside sodium analgesics e.g. morphine sulfate inotropic agents e.g. dopamine dobutamine human B type natriuetic peptides e.g. nesiritide .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat coronary artery disease e.g. statin e.g. rosuvastatin atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pitavastatin simvastatin and any combination thereof fibric acid derivatives e.g. fenofibrate gemfibrozil bile acid sequestrants e.g. cholestyramine colestipol antioxidants e.g. vitamin E and nicotinic acid derivatives e.g. niacin .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat myocardial infarction e.g. antithrombotic agents e.g. aspirin heparin enoxaparin vasodilators e.g. nitroglycerin beta andrenergic blockers e.g. metoprolol esmolol thrombolytic agents e.g. alteplase tenecteplase anistreplase streptokinase reteplase platelet aggregation inhibitors e.g. clopidogrel eptifibatide tirofiban abciximab analgesics e.g. morphine sulfate angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors e.g. captopril .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat peripheral vascular disease e.g. anticoagulants e.g. heparin warfarin enoxaparin dalteparin tinzaparin unfractionated heparin .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat stenosis e.g. coronary artery stenosis aortic stenosis restenosis pulmonary stenosis e.g. prostaglandins e.g. alprostadil beta blockers e.g. atenolol esmolol propranolol .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat vasospasm e.g. cerebral artery vasospasm coronary artery vasospasm e.g. nitrates e.g. nitroglycerin isosorbide dintrate isosorbide mononitrate calcium channel blockers e.g. nifedipine amlodipine verapamil diltiazem .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat hypertension e.g. pulmonary artery hypertension systemic arterial hypertension e.g. parenteral vasodilators e.g. epoprostenol treprostinil phosphodiesterase type 5 enzyme inhibitors e.g. sildenafil inhaled vasodilators e.g. iloprost oral pulmonary hypertension agents e.g. bosentan ambrisentan diuretics e.g. hydroclorothiazide spironolactone amiloride furosemide alpha 1 adrenergic blockers e.g. prazosin terazosin beta adrenergic blocking agents e.g. atenolol metoprolol propranolol nebivolol alpha beta adrenergic blocking agents e.g. labetalol carvedilol periperhal vasodilators e.g. hydralazine minoxidil calcium channel blockers e.g. diltiazem verapamil nifedipine angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors e.g. captopril enalapril lisinopril ramipril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. losartan valsartan eprosartan olmesartan aldosterone antagonists e.g. eplerenone alpha adrenergic agonists e.g. methyldopa clonodine renin inhibitors e.g. aliskiren .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat glaucoma e.g. carbonic anhydrase inhibitors e.g. acetazolamide methazolamide beta andergic blockers e.g. tomolol carteolol levobetaxolol levobunolol alpha andrenergic agonists e.g. apraclonidine brimonidine corticosteroids e.g. prednisone ophthalmic agents e.g. pilocarpine hyperosmotics e.g. glycerin isosorbide mannitol .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat erectile dysfunction e.g. phosphodiesterase inhibitors e.g. sildenafil vardenafil tadalafil injectable agents e.g. alprostadil papaverine phentolamine alprostadil androgens e.g. testosterone .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat bronchial asthma e.g. beta2 adrenergic agonist agents e.g. levalbuterol salmeterol formoterol albuterol corticosteroids e.g. fluticasone triamcinolone beclomethasone prednisone budesonide bronchodilators e.g. ipratropium theophylline combination of beta2 agonist corticosteroid agents e.g. salmeterol fluticasone budesonide formoterol leukotriene receptor antagonists e.g. montelukast zafirlukast mast cell stabilizers e.g. cromolyn 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors e.g. zileuton monoclonal antibodies e.g. omalizumab .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat sarcoidosis e.g. corticosteroids e.g. prednisone cytotoxic agents e.g. methotrexate azathioprine antimalarials e.g. hydroxychloroquine immunomodulatory agents e.g. thalidomide tumor necrosis factor inhibitors e.g. infliximab .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat Wegener s granulomatosus e.g. antineoplastics e.g. cyclophosphamide methotrexate corticosteroids e.g. prednisone antibiotics e.g. trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole antithyroids e.g. potassium iodide biologics TNF alpha inhibitors e.g. infliximab azathioprine rituximab .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat adult respiratory distress syndrome e.g. corticosteroids e.g. methylprednisone .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat systemic lupus erythematosus e.g. nonacetylated salicylates e.g. choline magnesium trisalicylate nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs e.g. ibuprofen antimalarials e.g. hydroxychloroquine glucocorticoids e.g. prednisone methylprednisone immunosuppressives cytotoxic agents e.g. cyclophosphamide azathioprine .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat multiple sclerosis e.g. corticosteroids e.g. methylprednisone dexamethasone immunomodulators e.g. interferon beta 1a interferon beta 1b glatiramer acetate natalizumab immunosuppressors e.g. mitoxantrone cyclophosphamide azathioprine methotrexate antiviral anti Parkinson agent e.g. amantadine dydrochloride central nervous system stimulants e.g. modafinil .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat irritable bowel syndrome e.g. anticholinergics e.g. dicyclomine hydrochloride hyoscyamine sulfate antidiarrheals e.g. diphenoxylate hydrochloride with atropine sulfate loperamide tricyclic antidepressants e.g. imipramine amitriptyline prokinetics e.g. cisapride monohydrate tegaserod serotonin 5 HT3 receptor antagonists e.g. alosetron chloride channel activator e.g. lubiprostone bulk forming laxatives e.g. methylcellulose psyllium .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat systemic sclerosis e.g. immunomodulatory agents e.g. prednisone methotrexate chlorambucil cyclosporine tacrolimus cyclophosphamide antifibrotic agents e.g. penicillamine colchicines vasoreactive agents e.g. nifedipine antiplatelet agents e.g. aspirin antihypertensive agents e.g. reserpine methyldopa .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat rheumatoid arthritis e.g. nonsteroidal anti inflammatory agents NSAIDs e.g. nabumetone aspirin celecoxib ibuprofen gold compounds e.g. auranofin immunosuppressive agents e.g. methotrexate antimalarial agents e.g. hydroxychloriquine anti inflammatory agents e.g. sulfasalazine corticosteroids e.g. betamethasone disease modifying agents e.g. penicillamine adalimumab immunomodulators e.g. abatacept .

In some embodiments a ROCK inhibitor see e.g. Section I Exemplary Compounds is used to treat a subject suffering from a disease involving aberrant angiogenesis. In some embodiments more than one of the compounds of the present invention are used to treat diseases involving aberrant angiogenesis through modulating e.g. inhibiting or promoting the activity of Rho kinase ROCK in affected cells or tissues undergoing aberrant angiogenesis. The present invention is not limited to particular types of disease involving aberrant angiogenesis. Examples of diseases involving aberrant angiogenesis include but are not limited to cancers e.g. cancers involving solid tumors psoriasis diabetic retinopathy macular degeneration atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis.

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat a disease involving aberrant angiogenesis e.g. Dalteparin ABT 510 CNGRC peptide TNF alpha conjugate NGR TNF Combretastatin A4 Phosphate Dimethylxanthenone Acetic Acide Lenalidomide LY317615 PPI 2458 Soy Isoflavone Genistein Soy Protein Isolate Tamoxifen Citrate Thalidomide ADH 1 AG 013736 AMG 706 Anti VEGF Antibody AZD2171 Bay 43 9006 GW786034 CHIR 265 PI 88 PTK787 ZK 222584 RAD001 Suramin SU11248 XL184 ZD6474 ATN 161 EMD 121974 and Celecoxib .

In some embodiments the composition comprising a ROCK inhibitor of the present invention is co administered with an agent configured to treat cancer e.g. Acivicin Aclarubicin Acodazole Hydrochloride Acronine Adozelesin Adriamycin Aldesleukin Alitretinoin Allopurinol Sodium Altretamine Ambomycin Ametantrone Acetate Aminoglutethimide Amsacrine Anastrozole Annonaceous Acetogenins Anthramycin Asimicin Asparaginase Asperlin Azacitidine Azetepa Azotomycin Batimastat Benzodepa Bexarotene Bicalutamide Bisantrene Hydrochloride Bisnafide Dimesylate Bizelesin Bleomycin Sulfate Brequinar Sodium Bropirimine Bullatacin Busulfan Cabergoline Cactinomycin Calusterone Caracemide Carbetimer Carboplatin Carmustine Carubicin Hydrochloride Carzelesin Cedefingol Celecoxib Chlorambucil Cirolemycin Cisplatin Cladribine Crisnatol Mesylate Cyclophosphamide Cytarabine Dacarbazine DACA N 2 Dimethyl amino ethyl acridine 4 carboxamide Dactinomycin Daunorubicin Hydrochloride Daunomycin Decitabine Denileukin Diftitox Dexormaplatin Dezaguanine Dezaguanine Mesylate Diaziquone Docetaxel Doxorubicin Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Droloxifene Droloxifene Citrate Dromostanolone Propionate Duazomycin Edatrexate Eflornithine Hydrochloride Elsamitrucin Enloplatin Enpromate Epipropidine Epirubicin Hydrochloride Erbulozole Esorubicin Hydrochloride Estramustine Estramustine Phosphate Sodium Etanidazole Ethiodized Oil I 131 Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate Etoprine Fadrozole Hydrochloride Fazarabine Fenretinide Floxuridine Fludarabine Phosphate Fluorouracil 5 FdUMP Fluorocitabine Fosquidone Fostriecin Sodium FK 317 FK 973 FR 66979 FR 900482 Gemcitabine Geimcitabine Hydrochloride Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin Gold Au 198 Goserelin Acetate Guanacone Hydroxyurea Idarubicin Hydrochloride Ifosfamide Ilmofosine Interferon Alfa 2a Interferon Alfa 2b Interferon Alfa n1 Interferon Alfa n3 Interferon Beta 1a Interferon Gamma 1b Iproplatin Irinotecan Hydrochloride Lanreotide Acetate Letrozole Leuprolide Acetate Liarozole Hydrochloride Lometrexol Sodium Lomustine Losoxantrone Hydrochloride Masoprocol Maytansine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Megestrol Acetate Melengestrol Acetate Melphalan Menogaril Mercaptopurine Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methoxsalen Metoprine Meturedepa Mitindomide Mitocarcin Mitocromin Mitogillin Mitomalcin Mitomycin Mytomycin C Mitosper Mitotane Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride Mycophenolic Acid Nocodazole Nogalamycin Oprelvekin Ormaplatin Oxisuran Paclitaxel Pamidronate Disodium Pegaspargase Peliomycin Pentamustine Peplomycin Sulfate Perfosfamide Pipobroman Piposulfan Piroxantrone Hydrochloride Plicamycin Plomestane Porfimer Sodium Porfiromycin Prednimustine Procarbazine Hydrochloride Puromycin Puromycin Hydrochloride Pyrazofurin Riboprine Rituximab Rogletimide Rolliniastatin Safingol Safingol Hydrochloride Samarium Lexidronam Semustine Simtrazene Sparfosate Sodium Sparsomycin Spirogermanium Hydrochloride Spiromustine Spiroplatin Squamocin Squamotacin Streptonigrin Streptozocin Strontium Chloride Sr 89 Sulofenur Talisomycin Taxane Taxoid Tecogalan Sodium Tegafur Teloxantrone Hydrochloride Temoporfin Teniposide Teroxirone Testolactone Thiamiprine Thioguanine Thiotepa Thymitaq Tiazofurin Tirapazamine Tomudex TOP 53 Topotecan Hydrochloride Toremifene Citrate Trastuzumab Trestolone Acetate Triciribine Phosphate Trimetrexate Trimetrexate Glucuronate Triptorelin Tubulozole Hydrochloride Uracil Mustard Uredepa Valrubicin Vapreotide Verteporfin Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate Vincristine Vincristine Sulfate Vindesine Vindesine Sulfate Vinepidine Sulfate Vinglycinate Sulfate Vinleurosine Sulfate Vinorelbine Tartrate Vinrosidine Sulfate Vinzolidine Sulfate Vorozole Zeniplatin Zinostatin Zorubicin Hydrochloride 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 Deoxyformycin 9 aminocamptothecin raltitrexed N propargyl 5 8 dideazafolic acid 2 chloro 2 arabino fluoro 2 deoxyadenosine 2 chloro 2 deoxyadenosine anisomycin trichostatin A hPRL G129R CEP 751 linomide sulfur mustard nitrogen mustard mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide melphalan chlorambucil ifosfamide busulfan N methyl N nitrosourea MNU N N Bis 2 chloroethyl N nitrosourea BCNU N 2 chloroethyl N cyclohex yl N nitrosourea CCNU N 2 chloroethyl N trans 4 methylcyclohexyl N nitrosourea MeCCNU N 2 chloroethyl N diethyl ethylphosphonate N nit rosourea fotemustine streptozotocin diacarbazine DTIC mitozolomide temozolomide thiotepa mitomycin C AZQ adozelesin Cisplatin Carboplatin Ormaplatin Oxaliplatin C1 973 DWA 2114R JM216 JM335 Bis platinum tomudex azacitidine cytarabine gemcitabine 6 Mercaptopurine 6 Thioguanine Hypoxanthine teniposide 9 amino camptothecin Topotecan CPT 11 Doxorubicin Daunomycin Epirubicin darubicin mitoxantrone losoxantrone Dactinomycin Actinomycin D amsacrine pyrazoloacridine all trans retinol 14 hydroxy retro retinol all trans retinoic acid N 4 Hydroxyphenyl retinamide 13 cis retinoic acid 3 Methyl TTNEB 9 cis retinoic acid fludarabine 2 F ara AMP and 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 Cda . Other anti cancer agents include but are not limited to Antiproliferative agents e.g. Piritrexim Isothionate Antiprostatic hypertrophy agent e.g. Sitogluside Benign prostatic hyperplasia therapy agents e.g. Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Prostate growth inhibitor agents e.g. Pentomone and Radioactive agents Fibrinogen I 125 Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Fluorodopa F 18 Insulin I 125 Insulin I 131 Iobenguane I 123 Iodipamide Sodium I 131 Iodoantipyrine I 131 Iodocholesterol I 131 Iodohippurate Sodium I 123 Iodohippurate Sodium I 125 Iodohippurate Sodium I 131 Iodopyracet I 125 Iodopyracet I 131 Iofetamine Hydrochloride I 123 Iomethin I 125 Iomethin I 131 Iothalamate Sodium I 125 Iothalamate Sodium I 131 Iotyrosine I 131 Liothyronine I 125 Liothyronine I 131 Merisoprol Acetate Hg 197 Merisoprol Acetate Hg 203 Merisoprol Hg 197 Selenomethionine Se 75 Technetium Tc 99m Antimony Trisulfide Colloid Technetium Tc 99m Bicisate Technetium Tc 99m Disofenin Technetium Tc 99m Etidronate Technetium Tc 99m Exametazime Technetium Tc 99m Furifosmin Technetium Tc 99m Gluceptate Technetium Tc 99m Lidofenin Technetium Tc 99m Mebrofenin Technetium Tc 99m Medronate Technetium Tc 99m Medronate Disodium Technetium Tc 99m Mertiatide Technetium Tc 99m Oxidronate Technetium Tc 99m Pentetate Technetium Tc 99m Pentetate Calcium Trisodium Technetium Tc 99m Sestamibi Technetium Tc 99m Siboroxime Technetium Tc 99m Succimer Technetium Tc 99m sulfur Colloid Technetium Tc 99m Teboroxime Technetium Tc 99m Tetrofosmin Technetium Tc 99m Tiatide Thyroxine I 125 Thyroxine I 131 Tolpovidone I 131 Triolein I 125 Triolein I 131. Additional anti cancer agents include but are not limited to anti cancer Supplementary Potentiating Agents Tricyclic anti depressant drugs e.g. imipramine desipramine amitryptyline clomipramine trimipramine doxepin nortriptyline protriptyline amoxapine and maprotiline non tricyclic anti depressant drugs e.g. sertraline trazodone and citalopram Ca antagonists e.g. verapamil nifedipine nitrendipine and caroverine Calmodulin inhibitors e.g. prenylamine trifluoroperazine and clomipramine Amphotericin B Triparanol analogues e.g. tamoxifen antiarrhythmic drugs e.g. quinidine antihypertensive drugs e.g. reserpine Thiol depleters e.g. buthionine and sulfoximine and Multiple Drug Resistance reducing agents such as Cremaphor EL. Still other anticancer agents are those selected from the group consisting of annonaceous acetogenins asimicin rolliniastatin guanacone squamocin bullatacin squamotacin taxanes paclitaxel gemcitabine methotrexate FR 900482 FK 973 FR 66979 FK 317 5 FU FUDR FdUMP Hydroxyurea Docetaxel discodermolide epothilones vincristine vinblastine vinorelbine meta pac irinotecan SN 38 10 OH campto topotecan etoposide adriamycin flavopiridol Cis Pt carbo Pt bleomycin mitomycin C mithramycin capecitabine cytarabine 2 C1 2 deoxyadenosine Fludarabine PO mitoxantrone mitozolomide Pentostatin and Tomudex. One particularly preferred class of anticancer agents are taxanes e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel . Another important category of anticancer agent is annonaceous acetogenin.

In some embodiments the ROCK inhibitors see e.g. Section I Exemplary Compounds are used to regulate a subject s blood pressure. In some embodiments more than one of the compounds of the present invention are used to regulate a subject s blood pressure e.g. maintain a subject s blood pressure within a desired range . In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention regulate blood pressure through modulating e.g. inhibiting or promoting the activity of Rho kinase ROCK in affected cells or tissues. In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are co administered with at least one additional agent for purposes of regulating a subject s blood pressure e.g. thiazides and related diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone alpha beta adrenergic blocking agents e.g. carvedilol beta adrenergic blocking agents e.g. bisoprolol atenolol metoprolol angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g. captopril fosinopril benazepril quinapril ramipril angiotensin II receptor antagonists e.g. losartan valsartan candesartan irbesartan eprosartan and olmesartan calcium channel blockers nondihydropyridines e.g. diltiazem and verapamil calcium channel blockers dihydropyridines e.g. Amlodipine nifedipine felodipine vasodilators peripheral e.g. hydralazine aldosterone antagonists e.g. spironolactone .

In some embodiments a ROCK inhibitor see e.g. Section I Exemplary Compounds is used to regulate a subject s HDL LDL levels. In some embodiments more than one of the compounds of the present invention are used to treat regulate a subject s HDL LDL levels e.g. lower a subject s LDL levels raise a subject s HDL levels . In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention regulate HDL LDL levels through modulating e.g. inhibiting or promoting the activity of Rho kinase ROCK in affected cells or tissues. In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are co administered with at least one additional agent for purposes of regulating a subject s HDL LDL levels. Examples of additional agents for purposes of regulating a subject s HDL LDL levels include but are not limited to antilipemic agents e.g. niacin nicotinic acid gemfibrozil fenofibrate and HMG CoA reductase inhibitors e.g. atorvastatin simvastatin pravastatin lovastatin fluvastatin and rosuvastatin .

The following examples are provided to demonstrate and further illustrate certain preferred embodiments of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

A 500 mL round bottom flask was charged with 4 iodo D phenylalanine 2 g 0.007 mol dissolved in acetonitrile HO 1 1 150 mL . Triethylamine 0.94 mL 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. 5 chloro isatoic anhydride 1.45 g 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the stirred solution and the reaction was heated at 80 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo. To the yellow solid was added glacial acetic acid 300 mL . The stirred solution was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was again diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo and flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a white solid 1.2 g 44 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.5. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 164.9 .

A 250 mL round bottom flask was charged with intermediate A 1.2 g 3.00 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 100 mL and cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 0.120 g 3.00 mmol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. Iodomethane 0.19 mL 3.00 mmol 1 equiv was added and the solution was stirred for 4 h and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 30 mL . The solution was poured into ethyl acetate 30 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL washed with water 2 20 mL and brine 1 20 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was in vacuo affording a yellow oil. Flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a pale yellow solid 0.877 g 66 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.61. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 143.8 .

To a solution of intermediate B 0.877 g 1.99 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 50 mL was added 4 pyridine boronic acid 0.489 g 3.98 mmol 2 equiv 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.162 g 0.199 mmol 0.1 equiv and sodium carbonate 7.9 mL of 2 M aqueous solution 15.92 mmol 8 equiv . The solution was heated at 130 C. for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was poured into water 30 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 30 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with water 2 30 mL brine 1 30 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 4 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent affording a yellow crystalline solid 45 mg 38 . TLC silica gel dichloromethane methanol 90 10 R 0.4. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 167.5 . HPLC trace on Chiracel OJ H analytical column afforded two peaks at 26.2 min and 31.6 min 1.0 99.0 S R . Nominal Mass Spectrometry for CHClNOcalculated 391.1088. found 391.0.

A 500 mL round bottom flask was charged with S 2 amino 3 4 iodophenyl 2 methylpropanoic acid 0.750 g 2.45 mmol dissolved in acetonitrile HO 1 1 150 mL . Triethylamine 0.35 mL 2.45 mmol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. 5 chloro isatoic anhydride 0.518 g 2.45 mmol 1 equiv was added to the stirred solution and the reaction was heated at 80 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo. To the yellow solid was added glacial acetic acid 300 mL . The stirred solution was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was again diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo and flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a yellow solid 0.1 g 10 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.43. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 212.8 .

To a solution of intermediate C 0.092 g 0.21 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 50 mL was added 4 pyridine boronic acid 0.051 g 0.42 mmol 2 equiv 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.017 g 0.021 mmol 0.1 equiv and sodium carbonate 0.84 mL of 2 M aqueous solution 1.6 mmol 8 equiv . The solution was heated at 130 C. for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was poured into water 15 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with water 2 15 mL brine 1 15 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 4 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent affording a yellow solid 12.5 mg 15 . TLC silica gel dichloromethane methanol 90 10 R 0.22. Optical rotation CHCl 0.998 dm 104.6 .

To a stirred solution of 2 amino 6 chloro benzoic acid 10 g 0.0583 mmol in acetonitrile 60 mL 1 M was added pyridine 9.4 mL 0.117 mmol 2 equiv and triphosgene 17.3 g 0.058 mmol 1 equiv in dichloromethane 85 mL 0.7 M . The orange reaction solution was heated at 50 C. for two hours then cooled to room temperature. The solution was diluted with water 50 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was washed with dichloromethane 3 50 mL the combined organic layers were washed once with brine 50 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo leaving a light brown solid. The solid was titrated with hexanes to yield 5 chloro 1H benzo d 1 3 oxazine 2 4 dione 11.3 g 97 as a white solid.

A 500 mL round bottom flask was charged with 4 iodo D phenylalanine 2 g 0.007 mol dissolved in acetonitrile HO 1 1 150 mL . Triethylamine 0.94 mL 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Intermediate D 1.5 g 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the stirred solution and the reaction was heated at 80 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo. To the yellow solid was added glacial acetic acid 300 mL . The stirred solution was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was again diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo and flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a yellow solid 400 mg 14 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.5. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 164.5 .

A 100 mL round bottom flask was charged with intermediate E 0.400 g 0.94 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 50 mL and cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 0.038 g 0.94 mmol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. Iodomethane 0.06 mL 0.94 mmol 1 equiv was added and the solution was stirred for four hours and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 10 mL . The solution was poured into ethyl acetate 10 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL washed with water 2 10 mL and brine 1 10 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was in vacuo affording a yellow oil. Flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a yellow solid 0.157 g 38 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.6. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 147.8 .

To a solution of intermediate F 0.156 g 0.36 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 25 mL was added 4 pyridine boronic acid 0.087 g 0.72 mmol 2 equiv 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.029 g 0.036 mmol 0.1 equiv and sodium carbonate 1.4 mL of 2 M aqueous solution 2.88 mmol 8 equiv . The solution was heated at 130 C. for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was poured into water 15 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with water 2 15 mL brine 1 15 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent affording a yellow solid 25 mg 19 . TLC silica gel dichloromethane methanol 90 10 R 0.4. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 136.6 . HPLC trace on Chiracel OJ H analytical column afforded two peaks at 26.2 min and 31.6 min 97.0 3.0 S R . Nominal Mass Spectrometry for CHClNOcalculated 391.1088. found 391.1.

To a stirred solution of 2 amino 4 chloro benzoic acid 10 g 0.058 mmol in acetonitrile 60 mL 1 M was added pyridine 9.4 mL 0.117 mmol 2 equiv and triphosgene 17.3 g 0.058 mmol 1 equiv in dichloromethane 85 mL 0.7 M . The orange reaction solution was heated at 50 C. for two hours then cooled to room temperature. The solution was diluted with water 50 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was washed with dichloromethane 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed once with brine 50 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo leaving a yellow solid. The solid was titrated with hexanes to yield 7 chloro 1H benzo d 1 3 oxazine 2 4 dione 9.1 g 74 as a yellow solid.

A 500 mL round bottom flask was charged with 4 iodo D phenylalanine 2 g 0.007 mol dissolved in acetonitrile HO 1 1 150 mL . Triethylamine 0.94 mL 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Intermediate G 1.5 g 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the stirred solution and the reaction was heated at 80 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo. To the yellow solid was added glacial acetic acid 300 mL . The stirred solution was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was again diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo and flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a yellow crystalline solid 1.24 g 86 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.5. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 147.5 .

A 100 mL round bottom flask was charged with intermediate H 1.09 g 2.55 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 75 mL and cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 0.061 g 2.55 mmol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. Iodomethane 0.16 mL 2.55 mmol 1 equiv was added and the solution was stirred for four hours and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 10 mL . The solution was poured into ethyl acetate 20 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL washed with water 2 20 mL and brine 1 20 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was in vacuo affording a yellow oil. Flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a white crystalline solid 0.508 g 45 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.6. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 156.2 .

To a solution of intermediate I 0.200 g 0.45 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 25 mL was added 4 pyridine boronic acid 0.112 g 0.90 mmol 2 equiv 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.037 g 0.045 mmol 0.1 equiv and sodium carbonate 1.8 mL of 2 M aqueous solution 3.60 mmol 8 equiv . The solution was heated at 130 C. for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was poured into water 15 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with water 2 15 mL brine 1 15 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent affording a yellow solid 25 mg 19 . TLC silica gel dichloromethane methanol 90 10 R 0.46. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 249.4 . HPLC trace on Chiracel OJ H analytical column with 100 MeOH as an eluent at 15 C. afforded two peaks at 35.1 min and 44.2 min 98.0 2.0 R S . Nominal Mass Spectrometry for CHClNO calculated 391.1088. found 391.1.

To a stirred solution of 2 amino 3 chloro benzoic acid 10 g 0.058 mmol in acetonitrile 60 mL 1 M was added pyridine 9.4 mL 0.117 mmol 2 equiv and triphosgene 17.3 g 0.058 mmol 1 equiv in dichloromethane 85 mL 0.7 M . The orange reaction solution was heated at 50 C. for two hours then cooled to room temperature. The solution was diluted with water 50 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was washed with dichloromethane 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed once with brine 50 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo leaving a yellow solid. The solid was titrated with hexanes to yield 8 chloro 1H benzo d 1 3 oxazine 2 4 dione 10.3 g 73 as a white solid.

A 500 mL round bottom flask was charged with 4 iodo D phenylalanine 2 g 0.007 mol dissolved in acetonitrile HO 1 1 150 mL . Triethylamine 0.94 mL 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Intermediate J 1.5 g 0.007 mol 1 equiv was added to the stirred solution and the reaction was heated at 80 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo. To the yellow solid was added glacial acetic acid 300 mL . The stirred solution was heated at 130 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was again diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL washed with water 2 200 mL . The solvent was removed in vacuo and flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 6 inches 150 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a brown crystalline solid 1.21 g 84 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.48. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 143.6 .

A 100 mL round bottom flask was charged with intermediate K 1.34 g 3.14 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 100 mL and cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 dispersed in mineral oil 0.075 g 3.14 mmol 1 equiv was added to the solution and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. Iodomethane 0.2 mL 3.14 mmol 1 equiv was added and the solution was stirred for four hours and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water 20 mL . The solution was poured into ethyl acetate 20 mL and the organic and aqueous layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL washed with water 2 20 mL and brine 1 20 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was in vacuo affording a yellow oil. Flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 40 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent afforded a yellow solid 0.588 g 41.4 . TLC silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 R 0.56. Optical rotation acetone 0.998 dm 138.5 .

To a solution of intermediate L 0.200 g 0.45 mmol dissolved in dimethylformamide 25 mL was added 4 pyridine boronic acid 0.112 g 0.90 mmol 2 equiv 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 0.037 g 0.045 mmol 0.1 equiv and sodium carbonate 1.8 mL of 2 M aqueous solution 3.6 mmol 8 equiv . The solution was heated at 130 C. for 30 min and then cooled to room temperature. The mixture was poured into water 15 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The organic layers were collected washed with water 2 15 mL brine 1 15 mL and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography of the residue on silica gel 2 inches 20 mm step gradient of hexanes to hexanes ethyl acetate 50 50 increasing in 1 column volume increments of 5 ethyl acetate as eluent affording a yellow solid 25 mg 19 . TLC silica gel dichloromethane methanol 90 10 R 0.37. Optical rotation CHCl 0.998 dm 218.3 . HPLC trace on Chiracel OJ H analytical column with 100 MeOH as an eluent at 15 C. afforded two peaks at 27.6 min and 35.2 min 99.0 1.0 R S .

This example describes inhibition of ROCK1 and ROCK2 activity with Compounds 1 2 3 4 and 5 see Example I of the present invention.

In a final reaction volume of 25 L ROCK I h amino acids 17 535 5 10 mU was incubated with 8 mM MOPS pH 7.0 0.2 mM EDTA 30 M KEAKEKRQEQIAKRRRLSSLRASTSKSGGSQK 10 mM magnesium acetate and P ATP specific activity approx. 500 cpm pmol concentration as required . The reaction was initiated by the addition of the MgATP mix. After incubation for 40 minutes at room temperature the reaction was stopped by the addition of 5 L of a 3 phosphoric acid solution. 10 L of the reaction was then spotted onto a P30 filtermat and washed three times for 5 minutes in 75 mM phosphoric acid and once in methanol prior to drying and scintillation counting.

In a final reaction volume of 25 L ROCK II h amino acids 11 552 5 10 mU was incubated with 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 0.1 mM EGTA 30 M KEAKEKRQEQIAKRRRLSSLRASTSKSGGSQK 10 mM magnesium acetate and P ATP specific activity approx. 500 cpm pmol concentration as required . The reaction was initiated by the addition of the MgATP mix. After incubation for 40 minutes at room temperature the reaction was stopped by the addition of 5 L of a 3 phosphoric acid solution. 10 L of the reaction was then spotted onto a P30 filter mat and washed three times for 5 minutes in 75 mM phosphoric acid and once in methanol prior to drying and scintillation counting.

Table 1 shows inhibition of ROCK1 and ROCK2 activity with compounds 1 2 3 4 and 5 of the present invention see Example I as measured with the respective ROCK1 and ROCK2 inhibition assays IC50 values .

All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those skilled in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

