---

title: System and method for monetizing user-generated web content
abstract: A system and method for monetizing user-generated web content are provided. The system includes a tracking engine operable to track user activity taking place a plurality of social networks. The tracking engine is in communication with an branding engine, which is notified when a user publishes content on a social network. The ad branding engine is configured to analyze user-published content and select at least one advertisement contextually related thereto. The ad branding engine incorporates the advertisement with the user-published content, and in turn, the user is compensated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08423409&OS=08423409&RS=08423409
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08423409
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
The present application provides a system and method for dynamically monetizing user generated web content web content. The system comprises a tracking engine for monitoring user activity on one or more social networks. The tracking engine is operatively coupled to an ad branding engine which is configured to incorporate advertisements along with user generated content. Upon detecting that a user has published content on a social network the tracking engine notifies the ad branding engine of the activity. The ad branding engine analyzes the content and selects an advertisement contextually related thereto. After the ad branding engine incorporates the selected advertisement with the user generated content the user is compensated.

Further objects features and advantages of this application will become readily apparent to persons skilled in the art after a review of the following description with reference to the drawings and claims that are appended to and form a part of this specification.

It should be understood that throughout the drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

With the advent of the Internet Internet based advertising has become increasingly popular among advertisers for promoting products and services. Advertisements may comprise banner ads links to web pages images audio text and or video animations two and three dimensional objects etc. The various advertisements used to promote products on the Internet may be displayed according to a variety of formats such as in conjunction with a ranked result set in response to a query embedded in a web page a pop up etc.

In recent years social networking services have also become increasingly popular. Such services provide various platforms for online users to interact. Social networking sites such as FACEBOOK and MYSPACE for instance enable users to add people as friends connections send messages to friends and update their personal profiles to notify friends about themselves. Another popular social networking and micro blogging site known as TWITTER enables users to send and read other user messages called tweets. Tweets are short text based posts displayed on the author s homepage as well on the homepage of users following the author.

In light of the rapidly growing popularity of online social networks advertisers have been developing various techniques to target these services. For instance some advertisers display banner ads to FACEBOOK and MYSPACE users when viewing their profile pages or when viewing the profile pages of their linked friends. In addition an advertising network known as Sponsored Tweets enables users to monetize their tweets. More specifically advertisers compensate tweeters TWITTER users that post messages for promoting their product service or site by way of a tweet.

While numerous advertising schemes exist the amount of revenue generated is not commensurate with the amount of user attention page views and traffic flow that social networking websites have managed to attract. FACEBOOK for example is presently the most used social network by worldwide monthly active users yet the click through rate for advertisements displayed on FACEBOOK is generally lower than most major websites. Social networks are primarily driven by the interaction that occurs among the users and conventional methods neglect this interaction. Accordingly the present application proposes an advertising system and a methodology that focuses on user interaction in social networks.

Referring now to a system embodying the principles of the present application is illustrated therein and designated at . The system is configured as a client server architecture. A client is typically a member of a class or group that uses the services of another unrelated class or group. In the context of a computer network such as the Internet a client is a process e.g. roughly a program or task that requests a service provided by another process known as a server program. The client process may generally use the requested service without having to know any working details about the other server program or the server itself.

In networked systems a client process usually runs on a client device e.g. a computer or component thereof that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer running a corresponding server process. Such client devices may include laptops home computers personal digital assistant PDA devices mobile phones set top boxes game consoles portable electronic devices etc. As will be understood to those of ordinary skill in the art it is possible for a client process and a server process to run on the same device.

A server is typically a remote computer system that is accessible over a communications medium such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a second computer system and communicate with the server process over a communications medium that allows multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Thus the server essentially acts as an information provider for a computer network.

The system comprises a server capable of being in communication with a distributed network which may include a connection to one or more networks such as the Internet. Other forms of a network for communication include but are not limited to a local and or wide area network a wireless network such as a WiFi or WiMAX network a mobile data network or any other suitable network for communication. While only one server is depicted in the drawings those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the system may incorporate a plurality of servers.

Users social networks and advertisers are communicatively linked to the server via the network whereby the server acts to manage the entire system . While certain specific entities are discussed herein it is to be understood that additional entities capable of accessing the network may be similarly be connected to the server . In addition for purposes of convenience most of the examples discussed herein refer to the TWITTER network yet those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the present application is not so limited and may apply to any suitable social network .

Social networks may include any Internet based service for enabling users to interact e.g. upload and retrieve content such as but not limited to TWITTER FACEBOOK MYSPACE YOUTUBE FLICKR LINKEDIN NING AGGED CLASSMATES.COM etc. Social networks also include aggregation sites that allow users to receive updates a stream of recent events and activities that help users stay in touch with their friends from multiple social networks . YAHOO for example provides a feature known as YAHOO Updates that displays YAHOO updates as well as updates from other social networks on a YAHOO user s profile page. Thus a YAHOO user that is also a member of FACEBOOK and TWITTER may authorize YAHOO to publish updates generated from their FACEBOOK and or TWITTER accounts on the YAHOO Network .

In one implementation a user of a social network may sign an agreement that authorizes advertisers to display advertisements along with content published by the user in return for some form of compensation. As will be discussed further below users may be compensated according to various payment plans. Compensation may refer to a benefit such as money items services credits or points redeemable for money items services and the like or any other benefit provided by one entity to another. In addition one or more entities may share in revenues realized from click stream and or purchase activity of a content consumer. If a user accepts the terms of the agreement the social network notifies the server .

The server includes at least one data store for storing information associated with each user that has authorized advertising on a particular social network . The data store may be implemented as any type of data storage structure capable of providing for the retrieval and storage of a variety of data types. For instance the data store may comprise one or more accessible memory structures such as a CD ROM tape digital storage library flash drive floppy disk optical disk magnetic optical disk erasable programmable read only memory EPROM random access memory RAM magnetic or optical cards etc.

A tracking engine communicatively linked to the data store uses information stored therein to identify users to track on one or more social networks . While the data store and tracking engine are both shown in as being incorporated with the server those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the data store and or tracking engine may be provided as separate components and or may be controlled by one or more separate entities. Similarly while only one data store and tracking engine are shown it is to be understood that additional data stores and tracking engines may be provided. For instance the server may include a separate data store and or tracking engine for each social network in communication with the server .

The tracking engine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware and is configured to track user activity on a social network . The tracking engine is communicatively linked to each social network e.g. by way of one or more application programming interface associated with the social networks and may be configured to monitor user activity continuously or according to a predetermined schedule e.g. every ten minutes hour etc. . For instance a social network may automatically notify the tracking engine once user activity occurs on that social network . Alternatively the tracking engine may be configured to monitor each social network directly and identify user activity itself.

To determine what a user is doing a plug in architecture with applications such as web browsers may be employed. In addition a tracking object associated with each user of a social network may be provided. A tracking object may include a component such as an applet program written in an interpretive language such as Java . Similarly a tracking object may include a program written in scripting language such as JavaScript to track and gather user activity. As will be understood to those of ordinary skill in the art a Java applet and a JavaScript code may be used collectively to gather user data.

According to one aspect the tracking engine is operable to populate the data store with information regarding users . User information may also be provided by the user and or the social network . For instance a social network such as YAHOO may provide users with an option as to whether they agree to have their YAHOO profiles shared with third parties e.g. the server social networks advertisers etc. . User information may also be collected from user devices through the network and or another channel.

In addition user information may be provided from some other network system or database that aggregates such data or by any combination of the foregoing. User information may include a wide range of information such as but not limited to a user s Internet Protocol IP address geographic location web viewing history or patterns as well as other psychographic data about users which may be received from a number of different sources . Information may also be collected about a user s age location gender income education ethnicity product preferences and a variety of other demographic characteristics that are useful in matching an advertisement to content published by a user .

In operation the tracking engine determines whether users have published content on the respective social networks that each user has authorized to display advertisements. As used herein the term content is to be broadly interpreted and may include data such as but not limited to audio image text video etc. If the tracking engine is monitoring user activity on a social network such as TWITTER the tracking engine determines whether a user known as Tweeters has posted a new tweet or has retweeted a message i.e. posted an original tweet published by another Tweeter . With more expansive social networks the tracking engine monitors all facets of the service that allow users to publish content. In the case of a network such as FACEBOOK for example the tracking engine can detect whether a user has updated their profile status message posted a comment written on a wall section in a user s profile where others can write messages and leave gifts in the form small icon like images etc.

Upon detecting user activity on a social network the tracking engine communicates this information to at least one ad branding engine linked thereto. For example if the tracking engine detects that a user has posted content such as a new tweet on the TWITTER network the tracking engine notifies the ad branding engine of the new tweet. The ad branding engine may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware and is configured to search an advertisement database and retrieve one or more advertisements ads to be served along with content published by users on social networks . Analogous to the data store the advertisement database may be implemented as any type of data storage structure capable of providing for the retrieval and storage of a variety of data types.

The ad branding engine includes an analyzing engine configured to analyze user generated content identified by the tracking engine and determine the context of the content. While the ad branding engine and the advertisement database are shown as being incorporated with the server it is to be understood that the ad branding engine and or advertisement database may be provided as a separate component and or may be controlled by one or more separate entities e.g. an advertising agency . Moreover a separate ad branding engine may be provided for and or controlled by each social network in communication with the server . Furthermore although the analyzing engine is shown as being integrated with the ad branding engine the analyzing engine may be a separate component and or may be controlled by one or more separate entities. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the analyzing engine may employ various techniques for analyzing and determining the context of content such as but not limited to machine learning models semantic and or statistical based algorithms etc.

Based on the context of the user generated content the ad branding engine may select an advertisement from the advertisement database using various algorithms and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For instance the ad branding engine may select ads based on corresponding bid amounts and or expected revenues e.g. expected revenue for a given advertisement may be calculated according to a historical click through rate associated with the advertisement .

Furthermore the ad branding engine may take into account any user information stored in the data store e.g. YAHOO user profiles . Such information may also include user settings e.g. likes and dislikes including preferences specified by users regarding the selection of advertisements. According to one aspect social networks may provide users with an option to include and exclude certain advertisements. For example a Republican user may agree to all advertisements except those promoting the Democratic Party. Similarly a Democrat may elect to exclude all advertisements except for those pertaining to the Democratic Party.

Of course the ad branding engine can also take into account any requirements imposed by social networks and or advertisers . For instance a sports based social network may only permit the display of advertisements directed to sports. Similarly certain advertisers may specify the types of users they wish to target e.g. users of a certain age group users located in certain geographical areas users having certain behavioral interests etc. .

According to one implementation the ad branding engine may apply a matching algorithm to retrieve one or more ads contextually related to the user generated content. For instance if the content in question is a tweet relating to McDonald s the ad branding engine may retrieve an advertisement offering a McDonald s discount. Yet if the analyzing engine has concluded that the context of the message is negative such as a tweet stating I don t like the fries at McDonald s the ad branding engine may terminate the selection process. Similarly if the analyzing engine concludes that the context of the content is non descriptive or vague e.g. a tweet that simply states Yes incomprehensible e.g. muffled slang or is otherwise inappropriate for advertising the ad branding engine may stop and await notification from the tracking engine regarding a new user update.

If the ad branding engine concludes that the user published content in question is appropriate for advertising the ad branding engine may select an advertisement according to any manner discussed above. Moreover it is to be understood that the ad branding engine may incorporate advertisements with content according to a variety of formats known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Referring now to several examples illustrating how the system of the present application may be employed with the TWITTER network . As shown in if a user posts a tweet T on the TWITTER network pertaining to Wal Mart W the ad branding engine may simply embed an advertisement A into the background of the content area so as to form a branded or sponsored message. The advertisement A may simply be a non clickable advertisement containing information related to Wal Mart Stores Inc. or the background of the tweet T may be coded in HTML so that a clickable advertisement will link users to a predetermined URL e.g. the Wal Mart homepage .

As shown in if the published content is a tweet T regarding Wal Mart W the ad branding engine may embed a Wal Mart logo L in the background area of the tweet T. Similarly the ad branding engine may embed a McDonald s logo L in the background area of a tweet T regarding McDonald s M. The logos L and L may be clickable hyperlinks. As shown in the ad branding engine may also incorporate hyperlinks H and H into the content areas of the tweets T and T which users may click to view details advertised by the hyperlinks H and H. Similarly the ad branding engine may transform the terms Walmart s W and McDonalds M in the tweets T and T into hyperlinks that redirect users to a predetermined URL e.g. the Wal Mart and McDonald s homepages . Hence content within the actual tweets may be configured as advertisements.

Moreover the ad branding engine may configure the tweets T and T such that a pop up advertisement is displayed if a user hovers over the word Walmart s W or McDonalds M and or hovers over the Wal Mart or McDonald s logo L and L. Of course the ad branding engine may employ any combination of advertising formats known to those of skill in the art. In some instances for example the ad branding engine may simply create a hyperlink using one or more words e.g. Walmart s W or McDonalds M in the user generated content T or T and not incorporate additional forms of advertising. For purposes of discussion however any form of advertising employed by the ad branding engine is to be understood as branding the user content or creating a branded user content area associated with the user generated content.

According to another implementation the ad branding engine is configured to brand a single tweet with different advertisements. Thus if a user s tweet on TWITTER is also posted on YAHOO e.g. via YAHOO Updates the tweet posted on TWITTER may be branded with a different advertisement than that same tweet that is posted on YAHOO This may occur due to different advertising preferences specified by TWITTER and YAHOO which the ad branding engine takes into account. This may also occur if TWITTER and YAHOO are associated with separate ad branding engines which may be controlled by different entities or the social networks themselves.

Furthermore the ad branding engine may brand a single tweet differently based on particular users . For instance if the ad branding engine brands a certain tweet posted by a tweeter the ad branding engine may brand that same tweet with different advertisements when viewed by the tweeter s followers . This may occur if the ad branding engine determines that the original advertisement is not agreeable with a certain follower s preferences or settings. This may also occur if the ad branding engine determines that another advertisement would be more appropriate to display to a particular follower.

By way of example if a user posts a tweet including the term hamburger the ad branding engine may brand that tweet with a McDonald s advertisement e.g. if the user information available to the ad branding engine indicates that the tweeter likes McDonald s . If this same hamburger branded tweet is displayed to one of the tweeter s followers the ad branding engine may brand the tweet with another ad such as a Burger King advertisement. This may occur if the ad branding engine determines that the follower does not like McDonald s or that Burger King is the follower s favorite restaurant. If a second follower is viewing the same hamburger tweet the ad branding engine may brand the tweet with an Arby s advertisement. In this case although both followers view the same hamburger tweet a separate advertisement is displayed to each follower . In branding content therefore the ad branding engine can take into account user information associated with the original publisher as well as user information associated with other users viewing the posted content.

As previously mentioned users receive compensation for publishing content that becomes branded by the ad branding engine . In one aspect advertisers or any designated entity may agree to compensate users of a social network according to a tier based system. Using TWITTER as an example users may be compensated in a first tier for each tweet that is branded by the ad branding engine . In a second tier users may receive compensation for each impression i.e. each time the branded tweet is actually displayed to or viewed by another unique user . Thus TWITTER users may earn compensation each time their followers view their branded tweet.

In a third tier a TWITTER user may receive compensation if other unique users retweet their branded tweet. In such cases both the original tweeter and all subsequent retweeters may receive compensation which may be divided between the users proportionately. In a fourth tier users may receive compensation if other users click on a hyperlink or pop up that is included in the branded message. In a fifth tier advertisers may agree to compensate users for each branded tweet that leads to a conversion i.e. when a specified action associated with the advertisement occurs .

It is to be understood that the foregoing examples are merely provided for purposes of illustration as additional tiers and alternative methods of compensations may be implemented. Moreover the foregoing examples should not be construed as being limited to the TWITTER network as the principles of the present application may apply to various social networks known in the art. By way of example advertisers may compensate users of the FACEBOOK network each time a user s status message is branded by the ad branding engine . In a second tier a FACEBOOK user may be compensated each time the branded status message is displayed to or viewed by other unique users . In a third tier a FACEBOOK user may be compensated each time other unique users comment on the branded status message. And so on.

Furthermore advertisers may agree to compensate users for branded content that is published on multiple social networks . For instance if a user posts a comment on the FACEBOOK network that becomes branded by the ad branding engine the user may receive additional compensation for posting tweeting the same message on the TWITTER network . Similarly the user may receive compensation if this same message is also published on the YAHOO network e.g. by way of the YAHOO Updates feature . In such instances where a user s branded content is published on more than one social network the amount of compensation received may be modified or limited.

Of course advertisers may impose certain rules to prevent against fraud. For instance advertisers may set limits as to how much user generated content may be branded per day. Moreover advertisers may only agree to compensate users that have equal to or more than a predetermined number of connections e.g. FACEBOOK friends TWITTER followers etc. in their individual network. Advertisers may also set caps as to how many impressions clicks and or conversions a particular user may be compensated for. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that advertisers may impose various other conditions regarding compensation. Similarly advertisers may employ any now known or later developed fraud prevention algorithms and techniques.

Referring now to a method for dynamically monetizing user generated web content starts in block . In block user activity taking place on a plurality of social networks is monitored. In block notification is received if a user publishes content on at least one social network being monitored. The user published content is analyzed in order to determine the context of the content as shown in block . If the context of the user content is appropriate for advertising the user content is branded in step . If not the method stops and returns to block . In block the user is compensated in response to the user s content being branded. The method ends at block .

Any of the modules servers or engines described may be implemented in one or more computer systems. One exemplary system is provided in . The computer system includes a processor for executing instructions such as those described in the methods discussed above. The instructions may be stored in a computer readable medium such as memory or storage devices for example a disk drive CD or DVD. The computer may include a display controller responsive to instructions to generate a textual or graphical display on a display device for example a computer monitor. In addition the processor may communicate with a network controller to communicate data or instructions to other systems for example other general computer systems. The network controller may communicate over Ethernet or other known protocols to distribute processing or provide remote access to information over a variety of network topologies including local area networks wide area networks the Internet or other commonly used network topologies.

In another embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Further the methods described herein may be embodied in a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

As a person skilled in the art will readily appreciate the above description is meant as an illustration of the principles of this application. This description is not intended to limit the scope or application of this application in that the system is susceptible to modification variation and change without departing from spirit of this application as defined in the following claims. Furthermore it should also be understood that the present application is not limited to a particular website or collection of websites although many of the examples show examples associated with the TWITTER website.

