---

title: Secure communications system with assured synchronization for data exchanged among system ports
abstract: A secure communications system has at least one processor and a control bus. A number of ports, each having a different fixed address, are coupled to the control bus. The processor assigns each port the address of another port whose data the port is permitted to receive when placed on a system data bus by the other port. A time slot generator outputs each fixed port address sequentially during corresponding time slots in a recurring manner, and a time slot bus is coupled to the time slot generator and to each of the ports. The ports are configured so that (a) when a given port detects its fixed address on the time slot bus, it writes desired outbound data on the data bus, and (b) when the given port detects its assigned port address on the time slot bus, the given port reads data off the data bus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08180053&OS=08180053&RS=08180053
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08180053
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100520
---
The present application is a continuation in part CIP of commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 659 670 filed Feb. 7 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 751 566 titled Apparatus Using a Time Division Multiple Access Bus for Providing Multiple Levels of Security in a Communications System. The 670 application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. Sec. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 684 693 filed May 26 2005.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. FA8726 08 C 0008 awarded by United States Department of Defense. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to TDM and TDMA communications systems or networks that can provide multiple levels of security MLS .

Present secure communications systems whether for military industrial commercial or private use typically require separate physical sub systems for each security level supported depending upon the kind of information to be communicated and the parties involved in the communications. Different levels of security are defined for example in DOD 5200.28 STD entitled Department Of Defense Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria December 1985 . In broad terms the security levels are characterized by four divisions namely Divisions A to D. Division A is the highest protection and is known as Verified Protection. The next level Division B is Mandatory protection followed by Division C Discretionary Protection followed by the lowest level Division D Minimal Protection.

The above DOD Standard also provides mandatory access control requirements for the different levels of security. Particularly in the military the DOD and governmental agencies such as NASA hierarchical mandatory access control is required. Moreover hospitals and commercial companies may require non hierarchical mandatory access control to be maintained for their information or materials.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 837 790 filed May 3 2004 titled Method and Apparatus Providing Multiple Single Levels of Security for Distributed Processing in Communication Systems and assigned to the assignee of the present application and invention describes the use of multiple single levels of security MSLS in the Joint Tactical Radio System known under the acronym JTRS. Prior MSLS systems required involved security certifications and typically had inadequate networking capability. Accordingly the inventors of the 790 application recognized the need for a MSLS system capable of meeting all the security requirements for such systems as well as permitting the distribution of secure intelligence and information with minimal security certification efforts and providing networking functionality between channels operating with the same security label.

Specifically the 790 application discloses a communications system wherein a physical switch provides multiple single levels of security. In the disclosed system all switching is centralized and separate cables must be run between a central control location and all the individual ports and channels of the system however. It would therefore be more efficient and economical if all the ports and channels of the system can be connected using only a single cable. The system of the 790 application also requires physical separation of signals thus limiting the number of possible connections to the available routing resources. It would therefore be desirable to use bandwidth resources instead thus allowing for a larger number of interconnects in the same resource space.

According to the invention a secure communications system or network includes at least one processor or controller for implementing a desired security policy and controlling system operations and a control bus coupled to the processor. Each one of two or more system ports coupled to the control bus has a unique fixed port address and a given port is permitted to transmit information or data only another port to which the address of the given port has been assigned.

The system processor is operative to assign the given port the address of another port whose transmitted information or data the given port is permitted to receive and a data bus is arranged to communicate data among the ports as permitted by the system.

A time slot generator is constructed and arranged to output each of the fixed addresses of the ports in sequence each within a corresponding time slot and in a recurring manner. A time slot bus is coupled to the time slot generator and to each of the ports and each port is configured so that a when a given port detects the presence of its fixed address on the time slot bus during a corresponding time slot the port writes desired outbound data onto the data bus during the time slot and b when the given port detects the presence of the port address assigned to the given port on the time slot bus during a corresponding time slot the given port reads data off of the data bus during the time slot. The time slot bus is preferably configured as a read only bus so that the ports can read data from but not write data to the time slot bus.

For a better understanding of the invention reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing and the appended claims.

In the peripheral devices are the ports shown on the left side of the control bus and labeled I O and the channels shown on the right side of the control bus and labeled PROCESSOR. In addition there is a clock and sync circuit connected to the control bus and receiving input signals from a frequency reference circuit . The system also includes a separate serial time division multiple access TDMA data bus extending to all the ports and the channels as well as to the clock and sync circuit . The clock and sync circuit is operative to provide configuration signals on the data bus to define a plurality of time slots.

Each of the peripheral devices each also hereinafter referred to as an entity has an internal switch unit which provides the direct and only connection between each associated entity and the buses and . As shown in each switch unit includes a controller for receiving time slot assignments both receive and transmit over the control bus from the high assurance source and a memory for storing the time slot assignments. The switch unit also includes a transceiver coupled to the data bus and a first in first out FIFO register and interleaver coupled between the transceiver and the associated entity . A phase locked loop circuit and a clock data recovery circuit retrieve timing signals over the data bus from the clock and sync circuit .

In operation when a particular port desires to communicate with a particular channel the high assurance source checks to see if the port and the channel have the same designated security level. If not a connection is not set up. If the security levels match the high assurance source assigns over the control bus receive and transmit time slots to the switch units of the particular port and channel. Specifically the receive time slot assigned for the switch unit of the particular port is the same as the transmit time slot assigned for the switch unit of the particular channel . Also the transmit time slot assigned for the switch unit of the particular port is the same as the receive time slot assigned for the switch unit of the particular channel . Accordingly each entity will be connected to the data bus only during its assigned receive and transmit time slots. For networking one transmitter and multiple receivers are allowable provided that the security levels match.

An exemplary switch unit is illustrated in from which it can be seen that the switch unit is substantially the same as the switch unit illustrated in with the only substantial difference being that the switch unit is connected only to the single TDMA bus rather than to the two separate control and data busses and .

In operation the system of operates substantially the same as the system of except that control clock and data signals all travel over the single TDMA bus .

An exemplary switch unit is illustrated in from which it is seen that the switch unit is similar to the switch units and . One difference is that a transceiver has parallel connections to the data bus . Further a first in first out register and serial to parallel converter is coupled between the transceiver and the associated entity or .

In operation the system of operates substantially the same as the systems of . Accordingly illustrate embodiments of the present invention having both distributed and centralized architectures. Because the systems of use time division multiple access TDMA data busses and persons skilled in the art will understand that accurate time synchronization must be maintained among all the ports and channels of the system. Synchronization pulses must be produced and detected to maintain ordered operation. Otherwise any given pair of entities to which time slots have been assigned may fail to communicate fully with one another during the assigned slots as they attempt on their own to transmit or receive data on the busses. Lost data must be resent and the efficiency of the system is compromised.

Each port may operate on a medium access control MAC layer of the system according to for example a known Reduced Media Independent Interface RMII standard wherein each port contains e.g. a 144 bit buffer 4 36 for data when transmitted from the port onto a system data bus and a 36 bit buffer for data received off of the bus . It is also preferred that each port perform control line conditioning with respect to control data received at the port from a bi directional control status bus over e.g. a first control line CRS DV carrier sense data valid and control data transmitted from the port to the control status bus over e.g. a second control line TE transmit enable . While substantially similar there are timing differences between the CRS DV and the TE control data signals and the port preferably operates to convert the CRS DV signal it receives to a TE signal which it transmits. The use of the larger transmit buffer then provides sufficient look ahead time to allow for the conversion.

Each port is provided with a unique fixed address comprising e.g. nine bits with a Hamming distance of e.g. three bits so that the detected addresses of any two ports must differ from one another by at least three bits to avoid an error condition. In this case it can be shown that 32 unique addresses will be available for identification of the ports . Minimum number of unique addresses 2 N D 1 where N is number of address bits and D is the Hamming distance in bits. 

The bi directional control status bus provides an interface between a system administrator or determined MAC policy and each of the ports . The MAC policy may be implemented for example by one or more system processors and or controllers that have been configured and programmed in a manner known to persons skilled in the art. The bus also interfaces with a port address time slot generator the configuration and operation of which is described later below.

The data bus serves to provide data communication paths between pairs of the ports having matching levels of security during corresponding time slots as determined by the system administrator or MAC policy . For example the bus may be 36 bits wide and loaded or unloaded with data from or to buffers in the ports at a 100 MHz rate to provide a maximum throughput of 3.6 Gbps. Each port may send and receive e.g. two data bits and one control bit to and from the bus in a single 20 nsec period i.e. at a 50 MHz rate.

The port address time slot generator is coupled to the control bus in the system in and to a port address time slot bus described below. As illustrated in the time slot generator may comprise a memory device or register such as for example a programmable read only memory PROM or equivalent component that can be configured to write each of the port addresses sequentially from a first 1 port address to a last N port address onto the time slot bus in response to corresponding write signals supplied to the generator over the control bus . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 880 992 Mar. 9 1999 all relevant portions of which are incorporated by reference.

When the time slot generator outputs the last port address it is configured in a known manner to regenerate the sequence of port addresses again from the first port address to the last port address. The duration of each address word from the generator corresponds to one time slot which in the illustrated embodiment is 10 nsec. If an error or other alarm condition is detected in the system the MAC policy may for example command the time slot generator to place all zeroes on the time slot bus and cause all traffic to halt immediately.

In the present embodiment the time slot bus is configured as a read only bus which is coupled to each of the ports . The bus affords a unique time slot to each port whenever the port s fixed or assigned address is present on the bus. During its afforded time slot a given port may load or unload data onto or from the data bus as explained below. The time slot bus can be for example nine bits wide the width of each port s fixed address and arranged to operate at 100 MHz so as to provide time slots of 10 nsec duration selectively to the ports.

As mentioned each port has read only access to the time slot bus and the bus has a number of lines equal to the number of address bits allocated for each of the ports . The time slot generator at one end of the time slot bus generates one port address after another sequentially from the first to the last port address in continuous repeating cycles. For example if there are ten ports in the system then at the beginning of time slot T the time slot generator outputs the address of port at the beginning of time slot T the generator outputs the address of port and so on through time slot T at which time the generator outputs the address of port . At the beginning of time slot T the generator starts to repeat the sequence of port addresses beginning with the address of port and so on in a recurring manner.

In addition to its own address a given port is associated with or is assigned via the MAC policy and the control bus the address of another port whose data can be read by the given port according to the security policy of the system . When the given port detects the presence of its own fixed address on the time slot bus the port is configured to write any outbound data onto the data bus during the corresponding time slot. When the given port detects the presence of the assigned port address on the time slot bus the port is configured to read any data that is present on the data bus during the corresponding time slot.

In view of the foregoing description and according to the invention the time slot bus obviates the need for timing pulses typically used in TDMA communications systems while assuring that all the ports will send and receive desired data synchronously and without error. In the system in each port has a permanent address unique from the addresses of the other system ports. While the disclosed embodiment uses Hamming distance meaning that at least three bits in the binary representation of a given port address must change before resulting in another valid address other distances and or error correction coding may be employed depending on the level of security desired for the system .

Assume two ports A and B each having a unique permanent address are allowed to communicate with one another under the security policy for the system and that ports A and B have data to exchange with one another. The system administrator or MAC policy provides port A with port B s address and provides port B with port A s address. Thus each of the two ports now know two addresses namely their own i.e. permanent or hardwired address and the address assigned to them by the MAC policy .

When either port A or port B reads or detects its own address on the time slot bus during a certain time slot the port writes the data it desires to send to the other port onto the data bus during the time slot. When either port A or port B detects the address of the other port on the time slot bus during a certain time slot the port reads the data that was placed on the data bus by the other port within the time slot. Thus during the time slot that port A s permanent address is present on the time slot bus port A will transmit and port B will receive. And during the time slot that port B s permanent address is present on the time slot bus port B will transmit and port A will receive.

Accordingly pairs of the ports in the system cannot lose sync with one another with respect to the timing and exchange of communications allowed between them by the system security policy. As long as port A is provided with port B s address port A will never communicate with any other port. An incorrectly generated or detected address will result in no activity. In the event a generated address is altered by three bit flips and the altered address happens to be valid such would simply allow the port pair associated with that address to communicate out of turn i.e. the port whose permanent address is the same as the altered address will transmit and only the port authorized to read the transmitted data will still do so . That is it is not possible for any given port to communicate with another port except for a port that was assigned to the given port.

Moreover the inventive system can support the so called Bell and LaPadula data diode which is an important multi level security consideration wherein data written by a given node can be read only by another node having the same or a higher level of security than that of the given node. Specifically the system can perform such a function by assigning one of the ports with an additional address referred to as a null time slot address and by omitting the latter address from the output of the time slot generator .

For example assume port A is allowed to transmit to port B but is not allowed to receive any data in return from port B. In such a case the system administrator or MAC policy would provide port B with port A s address and provide port A with the null time slot address. Thus as explained above during a time slot when port A s address is present on the time slot bus port A will write its data on the data bus and port B will be able to read the data written by port A on the data bus. During a time slot when port B s address appears on the time slot bus port B will transmit its data but no port including port A will be enabled to read the data provided port B s address has not been assigned to any of the other system ports by the system MAC policy .

While exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed herein it will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that various adaptations and modifications to the disclosed embodiments are possible. For example various busses and components of the disclosed systems and ports may be redundant and combined with alarm circuits in a known manner to meet a desired level of security. It is therefore intended that the invention be defined only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

