---

title: Dendrimer compositions and methods of synthesis
abstract: The present invention relates to novel dendrimer compounds and methods of synthesizing the same. In particular, the present invention is directed to novel polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimers, novel dendrimer branching units, methods for synthesizing such novel PAMAM dendrimers and functionalized dendrimers, as well as systems and methods utilizing the dendrimers (e.g., in diagnostic and/or therapeutic settings (e.g., for the delivery of therapeutics, imaging, and/or targeting agents (e.g., in disease diagnosis and/or therapy, etc.))).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08945508&OS=08945508&RS=08945508
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08945508
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101007
---
This application is a U.S. 371 National Phase Entry of pending International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 051835 International Filing Date Oct. 7 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 251 244 filed Oct. 13 2009 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. W911NF 07 1 0437 awarded by the Army Research Office. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to novel dendrimer compounds and methods of synthesizing the same. In particular the present invention is directed to novel polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers novel dendrimer branching units methods for synthesizing such novel PAMAM dendrimers and functionalized dendrimers as well as systems and methods utilizing the dendrimers e.g. in diagnostic and or therapeutic settings e.g. for the delivery of therapeutics imaging and or targeting agents e.g. in disease diagnosis and or therapy etc. .

Dendritic molecules are repeatedly branched species that are characterised by structural perfection. This is based on the evaluation of both symmetry and polydispersity. The field of dendritic molecules can roughly be divided into low molecular weight and high molecular weight species. The first category includes dendrimers and dendrons and the second includes dendronised polymers hyperbranched polymers and brush polymers called also bottle brushes .

The first dendrimers were synthesised divergently by V gtle in 1978 see e.g. Buhleier et al. Synthesis 1978 155 158 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety by Denkewalter as polylysine dendrimers in 1981 see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 289 872 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 410 688 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties by Tomalia in 1983 see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 507 466 see e.g. Tomalia et al. Polymer Journal 1985 17 117 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties and by Newkome in 1985 see e.g. Newkome et al. 1985 J. Org. Chem. 50 2003 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . In 1990 a convergent synthesis method was introduced by Fr chet see e.g. Hawker et al. 1990 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 112 7638 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Dendrimers then experienced an explosion of scientific interest because of their unique molecular architecture. This resulted in more than 5 000 scientific papers and patents published by the end of 2005.

Polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers are a common class of dendrimers suitable for many materials science and biotechnology applications. PAMAM dendrimers consist of alkyl diamine core and tertiary amine branches. They are available in generations G 0 10 with 5 different core types and 10 functional surface groups. Methods for synthesizing PAMAM dendrimers however have limitations. For example intramolecular dendrimer polymerization intermolecular looping and dendrimers having missing branches are common problems associated with classical synthesis methods. Accordingly there exists a need for improved methods for synthesizing PAMAM dendrimers.

The present invention relates to novel dendrimer compounds and methods of synthesizing the same. In particular the present invention is directed to novel polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers novel dendrimer branching units methods for synthesizing such novel PAMAM dendrimers and functionalized dendrimers as well as systems and methods utilizing the dendrimers e.g. in diagnostic and or therapeutic settings e.g. for the delivery of therapeutics imaging and or targeting agents e.g. in disease diagnosis and or therapy etc. .

Experiments conducted during the course of developing embodiments for the present invention demonstrated improved dendrimer compositions and methods of synthesis thereof. Specifically it was discovered that convergent synthesis methods of generating dendrimers e.g. PAMAM dendrimers Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers resulted in improved dendrimer compositions that lacked the common structural defects associated with classical dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers . Such structural defects include but are not limited to intramolecular dendrimer polymerization intermolecular looping and dendrimers having missing branches. Compositions related to the present invention e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers include additional structurally advantageous features including but not limited to central regions bearing functional groups e.g. OH and or NH functional groups that find use for attachments of functional ligands e.g. therapeutic agents imaging agents targeting agents trigger agents and or which find use for drug delivery or drug encapsulation and which are not present in classical e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers. Finally experiments conducted during the course of developing the present invention demonstrated novel synthetic methods that result in products with improved structural uniformity and that therefore require fewer downstream processing steps as compared to classical e.g. divergent PAMAM synthesis methods.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising novel PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Baker Huang dendrimers conjugated with one or more ligands e.g. functional groups e.g. imaging agents targeting agents therapeutic agents locking agents etc. . In some embodiments conjugation of a ligand e.g. functional group with the dendrimer is accomplished with a linker and or a trigger agent and or a scaffold see e.g. PCT US2010 050893 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

In some embodiments the functional group s is attached e.g. conjugated with the dendrimer via a linker. The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of linker. In some embodiments the linker comprises a spacer comprising between 1 and 8 straight or branched carbon chains. In some embodiments the straight or branched carbon chains are unsubstituted. In some embodiments the straight or branched carbon chains are substituted with alkyls.

In some embodiments conjugation between a ligand and a functional group or between functional groups is accomplished through use of a 1 3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction click chemistry . Click chemistry involves for example the coupling of two different moieties e.g. a therapeutic agent and a functional group e.g. a first functional group and a second functional group via a 1 3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction between an alkyne moiety or equivalent thereof on the surface of the first moeity and an azide moiety or equivalent thereof or any active end group such as for example a primary amine end group a hydroxyl end group a carboxylic acid end group a thiol end group etc. on the second moiety. Click chemistry is an attractive coupling method because for example it can be performed with a wide variety of solvent conditions including aqueous environments. For example the stable triazole ring that results from coupling the alkyne with the azide is frequently achieved at quantitative yields and is considered to be biologically inert see e.g. Rostovtsev V. V. et al. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2002 41 14 2596 Wu P. et al. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2004 43 30 3928 3932 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

The present invention is not limited to particular functional groups e.g. for conjugation with dendrimers . Examples of functional groups include but are not limited to therapeutic agents targeting agents trigger agents and imaging agents.

The present invention is not limited to particular type or kind of trigger agent. In some embodiments the trigger agents are configured to delay release of a functional group e.g. a therapeutic agent from the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer e.g. via an ester bond trigger agent . For example in some embodiments the trigger agents are configured to constitutively release a therapeutic agent from a PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer e.g. an amide bond an ether bond . In some embodiments the trigger agent is configured to facilitate a constitutive release of a functional group e.g. a therapeutic agent an imaging agent a targeting agent from the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer . In some embodiments the trigger agent is configured to release a functional group from the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer under conditions of acidosis. In some embodiments the trigger agent is configured to release the functional group from the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer under conditions of hypoxia e.g. indoquinones nitroheterocyles and nitroimidazoles . In some embodiments the trigger agent is configured to release a functional group from the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer in the presence of a brain enzyme e.g. the trigger agent is indolequinone and the brain enzyme is diaphorase . Examples of trigger agents include but are not limited to an ester bond an amide bond an ether bond an indoquinone a nitroheterocyle and a nitroimidazole.

The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of targeting agent. In some embodiments the targeting agent is configured to permit the composition to cross the blood brain barrier e.g. transferrin . In some embodiments the targeting agent is configured to permit the composition to bind with a neuron within the central nervous system e.g. the targeting agent is a synthetic tetanus toxin fragment e.g. an amino acid peptide fragment e.g. HLNILSTLWKYR SEQ ID NO 2 . In some embodiments the targeting agent is configured to target the composition to cancer cells. In some embodiments the targeting agent comprises FA. In some embodiments the targeting agent binds a receptor selected from the group consisting of CFTR EGFR estrogen receptor FGR2 folate receptor IL 2 receptor and VEGFR. In some embodiments the targeting agent comprises an antibody that binds to a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of p53 Muc1 a mutated version of p53 that is present in breast cancer HER 2 T and Tn haptens in glycoproteins of human breast carcinoma and MSA breast carcinoma glycoprotein. In some embodiments the targeting agent comprises an antibody selected from the group consisting of human carcinoma antigen TP1 and TP3 antigens from osteocarcinoma cells Thomsen Friedenreich TF antigen from adenocarcinoma cells KC 4 antigen from human prostrate adenocarcinoma human colorectal cancer antigen CA125 antigen from cystadenocarcinoma DF3 antigen from human breast carcinoma and p97 antigen of human melanoma carcinoma or orosomucoid related antigen.

The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of locking agent. In some embodiments the locking agent upon activation prevents transfer of the composition across the blood brain barrier. In some embodiments the locking agent is a pyridinium molecule which is activated by enzymes specific to the central nervous system. In some embodiments the locking agent is a re dox system. In some embodiments the re dox system is the 1 4 dihydrotrigonellinetrigonelline coffearine re dox system wherein conversion of lipophilic 1 4 dihydro form L in vivo to the hydrophilic quaternary form L by oxidation prevents the composition from diffusing across the blood brain barrier.

The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of therapeutic agent. Examples of therapeutic agents include but are not limited to a chemotherapeutic agent an anti oncogenic agent an anti angiogenic agent a tumor suppressor agent an anti microbial agent an expression construct comprising a nucleic acid encoding a therapeutic protein a pain relief agent a pain relief agent antagonist anesthetic drugs antipsychotic drugs hypnotic drugs sedative drugs muscle relaxant drugs an agent designed to treat an inflammatory disorder an agent designed to treat an autoimmune disorder an agent designed to treat inflammatory bowel disease and an agent designed to treat inflammatory pelvic disease. In some embodiments the agent designed to treat an inflammatory disorder includes but is not limited to an antirheumatic drug a biologicals agent a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug an analgesic an immunomodulator a glucocorticoid a TNF inhibitor an IL 1 inhibitor and a metalloprotease inhibitor. In some embodiments the antirheumatic drug includes but is not limited to leflunomide methotrexate sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine. Examples of biologicals agents include but are not limited to rituximab infliximab etanercept adalimumab and golimumab. In some embodiments the nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug includes but is not limited to ibuprofen celecoxib ketoprofen naproxen piroxicam and diclofenac. In some embodiments the analgesic includes but is not limited to acetaminophen and tramadol. In some embodiments the immunomodulator includes but is not limited to anakinra and abatacept. In some embodiments the glucocorticoid includes but is not limited to prednisone and methylprednisone. In some embodiments the TNF inhibitor includes but is not limited to adalimumab certolizumab pegol etanercept golimumab and infliximab. In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder and or inflammatory disorder includes but is not limited to arthritis psoriasis lupus erythematosus Crohn s disease and sarcoidosis. In some embodiments examples of arthritis include but are not limited to osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis septic arthritis gout and pseudo gout juvenile idiopathic arthritis psoriatic arthritis Still s disease and ankylosing spondylitis.

In some embodiments the PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer composition comprises a plurality of therapeutic agents e.g. 2 3 4 5 10 15 50 100 at any desired ratio .

The present invention is not limited to a particular type or kind of imaging agent. Examples of imaging agents include but are not limited to fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC 6 TAMARA acridine orange and cis parinaric acid.

In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating a disorder or condition e.g. arthritis cancer comprising administering to a subject e.g. a human patient a novel PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer conjugated with functional groups configured for treating the disorder or condition.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising a compound having repeating tertiary amine amide n tertiary amine amide amide tertiary amine amide tertiary amine n dendrimer structure wherein n is limitless e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 10 25 50 75 100 1000 10000 etc. . In some embodiments the tertiary amines and amide components are independently separated by alkyl chains of any length e.g. methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl etc. . In some embodiments the terminal tertiary amines are conjugated with functional ligands e.g. 

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising a compound having the following formula 

In some embodiments the compositions further comprise nanomaterials e.g. gold nanoparticles iron oxide nanoparticles polymers silica albumin quantum dots and carbon nanotubes .

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising a compound having the following formula AB wherein A comprises a carboxylic acid wherein B comprises a protected amine. In some embodiments the compound has the following formula 

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for synthesizing a composition comprising one or more dendrimer molecules comprising a providing two or more dendrimer branch unit agents wherein the dendrimer branch unit agents have the following formula AB wherein A comprises a carboxylic acid wherein B comprises a protected amine and b reacting the two or more dendrimer branch unit agents under conditions such that the two or more dendrimer branch unit agents assemble into a dendrimer molecule.

The methods are not limited to particular reaction conditions. In some embodiments the reacting involves addition of EDA and or TSTU O N succinimidyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate . In some embodiments the reacting occurs in the presence of agents selected from the group consisting of MeCN and DIPEA.

In some embodiments the methods further comprise purification of the dendrimer molecule by crystallization with CHCl. In some embodiments the methods further comprise treatment of the dendrimer molecule with KCO.

In some embodiments the methods further comprise conjugating the dendrimer molecule with a functional ligand independently selected from the group consisting of CH NH OH C halogen targeting agent a therapeutic agent a pro drug an imaging agent and a trigger agent. In some embodiments the methods further comprise conjugating the dendrimer molecule with nanomaterials selected from the group consisting of gold nanoparticles iron oxide nanoparticles polymers silica albumin quantum dots and carbon nanotubes.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides dendrimer molecules as generated with the methods of the present invention.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides kits for generating dendrimer molecules. The present invention is not limited to particular ingredients for such kits. In some embodiments the kits comprise two or more dendrimer branching unit agents having the following formula 

In certain embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating a disorder e.g. any type of cancer or cancer related disorder e.g. tumor a neoplasm a lymphoma or a leukemia a neoplastic disease an inflammatory disorder an autoimmune disorder comprising administering to a subject suffering from the disorder a dendrimer generated with the methods of the present invention e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugated with functional groups e.g. one or more therapeutic agents . In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder and or inflammatory disorder includes but is not limited to arthritis psoriasis lupus erythematosus Crohn s disease and sarcoidosis. In some embodiments examples of arthritis include but are not limited to osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis septic arthritis gout and pseudo gout juvenile idiopathic arthritis psoriatic arthritis Still s disease and ankylosing spondylitis. In some embodiments the dendrimer is co administered with an additional agent s so as to enhance such a treatment.

Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art based on the teachings contained herein.

To facilitate an understanding of the present invention a number of terms and phrases are defined below 

As used herein the term subject refers to any animal e.g. a mammal including but not limited to humans non human primates rodents and the like which is to be the recipient of a particular treatment. Typically the terms subject and patient are used interchangeably herein in reference to a human subject.

As used herein the term subject suspected of having cancer refers to a subject that presents one or more symptoms indicative of a cancer e.g. a noticeable lump or mass or is being screened for a cancer e.g. during a routine physical . A subject suspected of having cancer may also have one or more risk factors. A subject suspected of having cancer has generally not been tested for cancer. However a subject suspected of having cancer encompasses an individual who has received a preliminary diagnosis e.g. a CT scan showing a mass but for whom a confirmatory test e.g. biopsy and or histology has not been done or for whom the stage of cancer is not known. The term further includes people who once had cancer e.g. an individual in remission . A subject suspected of having cancer is sometimes diagnosed with cancer and is sometimes found to not have cancer.

As used herein the term subject diagnosed with a cancer refers to a subject who has been tested and found to have cancerous cells. The cancer may be diagnosed using any suitable method including but not limited to biopsy x ray blood test and the diagnostic methods of the present invention.

As used herein the term initial diagnosis refers to a test result of initial cancer diagnosis that reveals the presence or absence of cancerous cells e.g. using a biopsy and histology .

As used herein the term identifying the risk of said tumor metastasizing refers to the relative risk e.g. the percent chance or a relative score of a tumor metastasizing.

As used herein the term identifying the risk of said tumor recurring refers to the relative risk e.g. the percent chance or a relative score of a tumor recurring in the same organ as the original tumor.

As used herein the term subject at risk for cancer refers to a subject with one or more risk factors for developing a specific cancer. Risk factors include but are not limited to gender age genetic predisposition environmental expose and previous incidents of cancer preexisting non cancer diseases and lifestyle.

As used herein the term characterizing cancer in subject refers to the identification of one or more properties of a cancer sample in a subject including but not limited to the presence of benign pre cancerous or cancerous tissue and the stage of the cancer.

As used herein the term stage of cancer refers to a qualitative or quantitative assessment of the level of advancement of a cancer. Criteria used to determine the stage of a cancer include but are not limited to the size of the tumor whether the tumor has spread to other parts of the body and where the cancer has spread e.g. within the same organ or region of the body or to another organ .

As used herein the term characterizing tissue in a subject refers to the identification of one or more properties of a tissue sample e.g. including but not limited to the presence of cancerous tissue the presence of pre cancerous tissue that is likely to become cancerous and the presence of cancerous tissue that is likely to metastasize.

As used herein the term providing a prognosis refers to providing information regarding the impact of the presence of cancer e.g. as determined by the diagnostic methods of the present invention on a subject s future health e.g. expected morbidity or mortality the likelihood of getting cancer and the risk of metastasis .

As used herein the term non human animals refers to all non human animals including but not limited to vertebrates such as rodents non human primates ovines bovines ruminants lagomorphs porcines caprines equines canines felines ayes etc.

As used herein the term sample is used in its broadest sense. In one sense it is meant to include a specimen or culture obtained from any source as well as biological and environmental samples. Biological samples may be obtained from animals including humans and encompass fluids solids tissues and gases. Biological samples include blood products such as plasma serum and the like. Environmental samples include environmental material such as surface matter soil water crystals and industrial samples. Such examples are not however to be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.

As used herein the term drug is meant to include any molecule molecular complex or substance administered to an organism for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes including medical imaging monitoring contraceptive cosmetic nutraceutical pharmaceutical and prophylactic applications. The term drug is further meant to include any such molecule molecular complex or substance that is chemically modified and or operatively attached to a biologic or biocompatible structure.

As used herein the term purified or to purify or compositional purity refers to the removal of components e.g. contaminants from a sample or the level of components e.g. contaminants within a sample. For example unreacted moieties degradation products excess reactants or byproducts are removed from a sample following a synthesis reaction or preparative method.

The terms test compound and candidate compound refer to any chemical entity pharmaceutical drug and the like that is a candidate for use to treat or prevent a disease illness sickness or disorder of bodily function e.g. cancer . Test compounds comprise both known and potential therapeutic compounds. A test compound can be determined to be therapeutic by screening using screening methods known in the art.

As used herein the term NAALADase inhibitor refers to any one of a multitude of inhibitors for the neuropeptidase NAALADase N acetylated alpha linked acidic dipeptidase . Such inhibitors of NAALADase have been well characterized. For example an inhibitor can be selected from the group comprising but not limited to those found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 021 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As used herein the term nanodevice or nanodevices refer generally to compositions comprising dendrimers of the present invention. As such a nanodevice may refer to a composition comprising a dendrimer and metal nanoparticles e.g. iron oxide nanoparticles e.g. poly styrene sulfonate PSS coated iron oxide nanoparticles of the present invention that may contain one or more functional groups e.g. a therapeutic agent conjugated to the dendrimer. A nanodevice may also refer to a composition comprising two or more different dendrimers of the present invention.

As used herein the term degradable linkage when used in reference to a polymer e.g. PEG hRNase conjugate of the present invention refers to a conjugate that comprises a physiologically cleavable linkage e.g. a linkage that can be hydrolyzed e.g. in vivo or otherwise reversed e.g. via enzymatic cleavage . Such physiologically cleavable linkages include but are not limited to ester carbonate ester carbamate sulfate phosphate acyloxyalkyl ether acetal and ketal linkages See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 076 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Similarly the conjugate may comprise a cleavable linkage present in the linkage between the polymer and hRNase or may comprise a cleavable linkage present in the polymer itself e.g. such that when cleaved a small portion of the polymer remains on the hRNase molecule See e.g. U.S. Pat. App. Nos. 20050158273 and 20050181449 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . For example a PEG polymer comprising an ester linkage can be utilized for conjugation to hRNase to create a PEG hRNase conjugate See e.g. Kuzlowski et al. Biodrugs 15 419 429 2001 . A conjugate that comprises a degradable linkage of the present invention is capable of generating hRNase that is free e.g. completely or partially free of the polymer e.g. in vivo after hydrolysis of the linkage .

A physiologically cleavable or hydrolysable or degradable bond is a bond that reacts with water i.e. is hydrolyzed under physiological conditions. The tendency of a bond to hydrolyze in water will depend not only on the general type of linkage connecting two central atoms but also on the substituents attached to these central atoms. Appropriate hydrolytically unstable or weak linkages include but are not limited to carboxylate ester phosphate ester anhydrides acetals ketals acyloxyalkyl ether imines orthoesters peptides and oligonucleotides.

An enzymatically degradable linkage means a linkage that is subject to degradation by one or more enzymes.

A hydrolytically stable linkage or bond refers to a chemical bond e.g. typically a covalent bond that is substantially stable in water i.e. does not undergo hydrolysis under physiological conditions to any appreciable extent over an extended period of time . Examples of hydrolytically stable linkages include but are not limited to carbon carbon bonds e.g. in aliphatic chains ethers amides urethanes and the like.

As used herein the term click chemistry refers to chemistry tailored to generate substances quickly and reliably by joining small modular units together see e.g. Kolb et al. 2001 Angewandte Chemie Intl. Ed. 40 2004 2011 Evans 2007 Australian J. Chem. 60 384 395 Carlmark et al. 2009 Chem. Soc. Rev. 38 352 362 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

As used herein the term triazine refers to a compound comprising a ring structure bearing three nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments the ring structure is six membered e.g. the molecular formula comprises CHN . In some embodiments the ring is a conjugated system. Triazine moieties with six membered rings may have nitrogen atoms at any possible placement so long as three nitrogen atoms occur in the ring e.g. 1 2 3 triazine 1 2 4 triazine 1 3 5 triazine 1 2 5 triazine 1 2 6 triazine etc. .

As used herein the term scaffold refers to a compound to which other moieties are attached e.g. conjugated . In some embodiments a scaffold is conjugated to bioactive functional conjugates e.g. a therapeutic agent a targeting agent a trigger agent an imaging agent . In some embodiments a scaffold is conjugated to a dendrimer e.g. a PAMAM Baker Huang dendrimer . In some embodiments conjugation of a scaffold to a dendrimer and or a functional conjugate s is direct while in other embodiments conjugation of a scaffold to a dendrimer and or a functional conjugate s is indirect e.g. an intervening linker is present between the scaffold compound and the dendrimer and or the scaffold and the functional conjugate s .

As used herein the term one pot synthesis reaction or equivalents thereof e.g. 1 pot one pot etc. refers to a chemical synthesis method in which all reactants are present in a single vessel. Reactants may be added simultaneously or sequentially with no limitation as to the duration of time elapsing between introduction of sequentially added reactants. In some embodiments conjugation between a dendrimer e.g. a terminal arm of a dendrimer and a functional ligand is accomplished during a one pot reaction. In some embodiments a one pot reaction occurs wherein a hydroxyl terminated dendrimer e.g. HO PAMAM dendrimer is reacted with one or more functional ligands e.g. a therapeutic agent a pro drug a trigger agent a targeting agent an imaging agent in one vessel such conjugation being facilitated by ester coupling agents e.g. 2 chloro 1 methylpyridinium iodide and 4 dimethylamino pyridine see e.g. International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 042556 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

As used herein the term solvent refers to a medium in which a reaction is conducted. Solvents may be liquid but are not limited to liquid form. Solvent categories include but are not limited to nonpolar polar protic and aprotic.

As used herein the term dialysis refers to a purification method in which the solution surrounding a substance is exchanged over time with another solution. Dialysis is generally performed in liquid phase by placing a sample in a chamber tubing or other device with a selectively permeable membrane. In some embodiments the selectively permeable membrane is cellulose membrane. In some embodiments dialysis is performed for the purpose of buffer exchange. In some embodiments dialysis may achieve concentration of the original sample volume. In some embodiments dialysis may achieve dilution of the original sample volume.

As used herein the term precipitation refers to purification of a substance by causing it to take solid form usually within a liquid context. Precipitation may then allow collection of the purified substance by physical handling e.g. centrifugation or filtration.

As used herein an ester coupling agent refers to a reagent that can facilitate the formation of an ester bond between two reactants. The present invention is not limited to any particular coupling agent or agents. Examples of coupling agents include but are not limited to 2 chloro 1 methylpyridium iodide and 4 dimethylamino pyridine or dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 4 dimethylamino pyridine or diethyl azodicarboxylate and triphenylphosphine or other carbodiimide coupling agent and 4 dimethylamino pyridine.

As used herein the term glycidolate refers to the addition of a 2 3 dihydroxylpropyl group to a reagent using glycidol as a reactant. In some embodiments the reagent to which the 2 3 dihydroxylpropyl groups are added is a dendrimer. In some embodiments the dendrimer is a PAMAM dendrimer. Glycidolation may be used generally to add terminal hydroxyl functional groups to a reagent.

As used herein the term ligand refers to any moiety covalently attached e.g. conjugated to a dendrimer branch in preferred embodiments such conjugation is indirect e.g. an intervening moiety exists between the dendrimer branch and the ligand rather than direct e.g. no intervening moiety exists between the dendrimer branch and the ligand . Indirect attachment of a ligand to a dendrimer may exist where a scaffold compound e.g. triazine scaffold see e.g. PCT US2010 050893 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety e.g. a trigger agent e.g. a linker intervenes. In preferred embodiments ligands have functional utility for specific applications e.g. for therapeutic targeting imaging or drug delivery function s . The terms ligand conjugate and functional group may be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term Baker Huang dendrimer or Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer refers to a dendrimer comprised of branching units of structure 

As used herein the term branching unit agent refers to a repeating structure present in a dendrimer. In some embodiments the dendrimer is a PAMAM dendrimer. In some embodiments the dendrimer is a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer. In some embodiments the branch unit is an ABbranch unit wherein A comprises a carboxylic acid and B comprises a protected amine. In some embodiments amide bond formation between ABbranch units finds use for addition of subsequent generations of dendrimer branches. In some embodiments the branching unit agent has the following formula 

As used herein the term Tomalia PAMAM dendrimer or Tomalia dendrimer refers to a PAMAM dendrimer with iterative repeats stated in order from core to surface of tertiary amines followed by amide bonds with ethylene groups intervening between the tertiary amines and amide bonds.

As used herein the term classical PAMAM synthesis or classical PAMAM synthesis method refer to divergent synthesis methods involving branch growth through Michael addition in the presence of large excesses of EDA e.g. as described herein and in Fr chet J. M. J. Tomalia D. A. Editors Dendrimers and other Dendritic Polymers 2001 J. Wiley and Sons Chichester and New York herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Dendrimeric polymers have been described extensively See e.g. Tomalia Advanced Materials 6 529 1994 Angew Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 29 138 1990 incorporated herein by reference in their entireties . Dendrimer polymers are synthesized as defined spherical structures typically ranging from 1 to 20 nanometers in diameter. Methods for manufacturing a G5 PAMAM dendrimer with a protected core is shown e.g. the protected core diamine is NH CH CH NHPG . Molecular weight and the number of terminal groups increase exponentially as a function of generation the number of layers of the polymer See e.g. B C and D . Different types of dendrimers can be synthesized based on the core structure that initiates the polymerization process See e.g. .

The dendrimer core structures dictate several characteristics of the molecule such as the overall shape density and surface functionality See e.g. Tomalia et al. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 29 5305 1990 . Spherical dendrimers can have ammonia as a trivalent initiator core or ethylenediamine EDA as a tetravalent initiator core See e.g. B C and D . Recently described rod shaped dendrimers See e.g. Yin et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120 2678 1998 use polyethyleneimine linear cores of varying lengths the longer the core the longer the rod. Dendritic macromolecules are available commercially in kilogram quantities and are produced under current good manufacturing processes GMP for biotechnology applications.

Numerous U.S. patents describe methods and compositions for producing dendrimers. Examples of some of these patents are given below in order to provide a description of some dendrimer compositions that may be useful in the present invention however it should be understood that these are merely illustrative examples and numerous other similar dendrimer compositions could be used in the present invention.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 507 466 U.S. Pat. No. 4 558 120 U.S. Pat. No. 4 568 737 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 587 329 each describe methods of making dense star polymers with terminal densities greater than conventional star polymers. These polymers have greater more uniform reactivity than conventional star polymers i.e. 3rd generation dense star polymers. These patents further describe the nature of the amidoamine dendrimers and the 3 dimensional molecular diameter of the dendrimers.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 631 337 describes hydrolytically stable polymers. U.S. Pat. No. 4 694 064 describes rod shaped dendrimers. U.S. Pat. No. 4 713 975 describes dense star polymers and their use to characterize surfaces of viruses bacteria and proteins including enzymes. Bridged dense star polymers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 737 550. U.S. Pat. No. 4 857 599 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 871 779 describe dense star polymers on immobilized cores useful as ion exchange resins chelation resins and methods of making such polymers.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 338 532 is directed to starburst conjugates of dendrimer s in association with at least one unit of carried agricultural pharmaceutical or other material. This patent describes the use of dendrimers to provide means of delivery of high concentrations of carried materials per unit polymer controlled delivery targeted delivery and or multiple species such as e.g. drugs antibiotics general and specific toxins metal ions radionuclides signal generators antibodies interleukins hormones interferons viruses viral fragments pesticides and antimicrobials.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 471 968 describes a dendrimer complex comprising covalently linked first and second dendrimers with the first dendrimer comprising a first agent and the second dendrimer comprising a second agent wherein the first dendrimer is different from the second dendrimer and where the first agent is different than the second agent.

Other useful dendrimer type compositions are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 617 U.S. Pat. No. 5 393 797 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 393 795 in which dense star polymers are modified by capping with a hydrophobic group capable of providing a hydrophobic outer shell. U.S. Pat. No. 5 527 524 discloses the use of amino terminated dendrimers in antibody conjugates.

The use of dendrimers as metal ion carriers is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 560 929. U.S. Pat. No. 5 773 527 discloses non crosslinked polybranched polymers having a comb burst configuration and methods of making the same. U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 329 describes a process to produce polybranched polymer of high molecular weight by forming a first set of branched polymers protected from branching grafting to a core deprotecting first set branched polymer then forming a second set of branched polymers protected from branching and grafting to the core having the first set of branched polymers etc.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 902 863 describes dendrimer networks containing lipophilic organosilicone and hydrophilic polyanicloamine nanoscopic domains. The networks are prepared from copolydendrimer precursors having PAMAM hydrophilic or polyproyleneimine interiors and organosilicon outer layers. These dendrimers have a controllable size shape and spatial distribution. They are hydrophobic dendrimers with an organosilicon outer layer that can be used for specialty membrane protective coating composites containing organic organometallic or inorganic additives skin patch delivery absorbents chromatography personal care products and agricultural products.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 795 582 describes the use of dendrimers as adjuvants for influenza antigen. Use of the dendrimers produces antibody titer levels with reduced antigen dose. U.S. Pat. No. 5 898 005 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 319 describe specific immunobinding assays for determining concentration of an analyte. U.S. Pat. No. 5 661 025 provides details of a self assembling polynucleotide delivery system comprising dendrimer polycation to aid in delivery of nucleotides to target site. This patent provides methods of introducing a polynucleotide into a eukaryotic cell in vitro comprising contacting the cell with a composition comprising a polynucleotide and a dendrimer polyeation non covalently coupled to the polynucleotide.

Classical preparation of PAMAM dendrimers is performed according to a typical divergent building up the macromolecule from an initiator core synthesis. It involves a two step growth sequence that includes of a Michael addition of amino groups to the double bond of methyl acrylate MA followed by the amidation of the resulting terminal carbomethoxy COCH group with ethylenediamine EDA .

In the first step of this process ammonia is allowed to react under an inert nitrogen atmosphere with MA molar ratio 1 4.25 at 47 C. for 48 hours. The resulting compound is referred to as generation 0 the star branched PAMAM tri ester. The next step involves reacting the tri ester with an excess of EDA to produce the star branched PAMAM tri amine G O . This reaction is performed under an inert atmosphere nitrogen in methanol and requires 48 hours at 0 C. for completion. Reiteration of this Michael addition and amidation sequence produces generation 1.

Preparation of this tri amine completes the first full cycle of the divergent synthesis of PAMAM dendrimers. Repetition of this reaction sequence results in the synthesis of larger generation G 1 5 dendrimers i.e. ester and amine terminated molecules respectively . For example the second iteration of this sequence produces generation 1 with an hexa ester and hexa amine surface respectively. The same reactions are performed in the same way as for all subsequent generations from 1 to 9 building up layers of branch cells giving a core shell architecture with precise molecular weights and numbers of terminal groups as shown above. Carboxylate surfaced dendrimers can be produced by hydrolysis of ester terminated PAMAM dendrimers or reaction of succinic anhydride with amine surfaced dendrimers e.g. full generation PAMAM POPAM or POPAM PAMAM hybrid dendrimers .

Various dendrimers can be synthesized based on the core structure that initiates the polymerization process. These core structures dictate several important characteristics of the dendrimer molecule such as the overall shape density and surface functionality See e.g. Tomalia et al. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 29 5305 1990 . Spherical dendrimers derived from ammonia possess trivalent initiator cores whereas EDA is a tetra valent initiator core. Recently rod shaped dendrimers have been reported which are based upon linear poly ethyleneimine cores of varying lengths the longer the core the longer the rod See e.g. Yin et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120 2678 1998 .

Therefore classical methods of synthesizing PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers include two repeated steps Michael addition and amidation. These synthesis methods require a large excess of ethylene diamine for the amidation step to avoid structural flaws in the resulting dendrimers such flaws including but not limited to a intramolecular polymerization of dendrimer e.g. resulting in dimers trimers and tetramers and b intermolecular looping. In classical methods of synthesizing PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers the excess of EDA typically required for the synthesis of G0 from G 0.5 is 101 equivalents per ester and the excess of EDA doubles for every generation beyond this. Therefore in classical methods of synthesizing PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers for the synthesis of G5 the EDA excess required is up to 3 232 equivalents per ester. Such requirements preclude the scale up for PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers in a chemistry lab setting using such classical synthesis methods. In addition classical PAMAM dendrimers are prone to several other structural defects that are artifacts of the synthesis method and that are difficult if not impossible to avoid. Such problems include for example retro Michael reactions and incomplete amidations resulting in missing branches. Examples of common structural defects occurring in classically synthesized PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers are shown in . shows the desired structure of a generation 2 G2 classically synthesized Tomalia PAMAM dendrimer including indications of branch points and branching units arising via iterative Michael addition reactions and incorporation of EDA.

The present invention overcomes such limitations. In particular some embodiments of the present invention are directed to novel polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers novel dendrimer branching units for generating such novel PAMAM dendrimers methods for synthesizing such novel PAMAM dendrimers as well as systems and methods utilizing the dendrimers e.g. in diagnostic and or therapeutic settings e.g. for the delivery of therapeutics imaging and or targeting agents e.g. in disease diagnosis and or therapy etc. .

The PAMAM dendrimer embodiments of the present invention e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers are structurally distinct from classical PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers . shows a comparison of an embodiment of a generation 1 G1 Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer and a classical Tomalia G1 PAMAM dendrimer. While both dendrimers are poly amido amine PAMAM dendrimers they are structurally distinct. The Tomalia PAMAM dendrimer structure includes listed in order from the core to the surface iterative repeats of tertiary amines followed by amide bonds with ethylene groups intervening between the tertiary amines and amide bonds. In contrast in one embodiment of a dendrimer composition of the present invention e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer the order of iterative repeats from core to surface changes to amide bonds first followed by tertiary amines again with ethylene groups intervening between the amide bond and tertiary amines.

Table 1 shows additional structural differences and similarities existing between classical e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers and dendrimer embodiments of the present invention e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers . The first two columns of Table 1 indicate the number of surface amino groups which find use e.g. with regard to conjugation of functional ligands e.g. a therapeutic agent an imaging agent a targeting agent a trigger agent . Both types of PAMAM dendrimer have the same number of surface groups at a given generation generations 3 or 4 are considered in Table 1 . The second two columns of Table 1 indicate the numbers of bonds counting from core to surface which are also similar for G3 it is 29.5 and G4 it is 36.5. This number determines approximate size of the dendrimer especially at higher generations. The third two columns indicate the numbers of tertiary amine throughout the dendrimer structure are similar for the two types of PAMAM dendrimers. The next two parameters illustrated are the number of amide bonds and the molecular weight of these two PAMAM dendrimers.

While structural similarities exist between classical e.g. Tomalia PAMAM dendrimers and dendrimer embodiments of the present invention e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers there are also structural distinctions. Notably Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers have fewer amide bonds and a less crowded interior core see Table 1 and . In particular the interior core of some dendrimer embodiments of the present invention see e.g. permits increased interior space and less steric hindrance which finds use e.g. for encapsulation of agents or attachment of additional functional ligands e.g. therapeutic agents imaging agents trigger agents targeting agents .

In certain embodiments the Baker Huang dendrimers have a repeating tertiary amine amide n tertiary amine amide amide tertiary amine amide tertiary amine n dendrimer structure wherein n is limitless e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 10 25 50 75 100 1000 10000 etc. . In some embodiments the tertiary amines and amide components are independently separated by alkyl chains of any length e.g. methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl etc. . In some embodiments the terminal tertiary amines are conjugated with functional ligands e.g. 

The present invention is not limited to a particular method for synthesizing Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers. In certain embodiments the present invention provides novel dendrimer branching units for generating Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers. shows one embodiment of an ABbranch unit of the present invention. In the terminology used herein regarding branch units A may comprise a carboxylic acid and B may comprise a protected amine. In some synthesis method embodiments amide bond formation is utilized for generation growth of dendrimers constructed using AB branch unit embodiments of the present invention. For example for a EDA core the ABbranch unit embodiment shown in reacts at both end of the EDA molecule thereby forming a G0 dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM G0 dendrimer . In the embodiment shown in the selection of trifluoroacetamide as a protection group for the primary amine has several advantages. For example trifluoroacetamide is very stable under acidic conditions therefore the solubility of the branch unit embodiment in organic solvent is desirable because the coupling reactions may be performed in organic solvent. Additionally trifluoroacetamide can be removed under mild conditions.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising novel PAMAM dendrimers e.g. Baker Huang dendrimers conjugated with one or more functional groups e.g. imaging agents targeting agents therapeutic agents scaffold agents linkers trigger agents locking agents etc. . In some embodiments conjugation of a functional group with the dendrimer is accomplished with a linker and or a trigger agent.

In some embodiments a dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a functional group e.g. therapeutic agent imaging agent targeting agent triggering agent decreases the number of conjugation steps required to form a dendrimer conjugate e.g. a dendrimer conjugated to a targeting agent imaging agent therapeutic agent and or triggering agent . For example in some embodiments the present invention provides a customizable dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer wherein one or a plurality of linkers e.g. attached to one or a plurality of targeting agents triggering agents and or therapeutic agents are conjugated to the dendrimer thereby decreasing the number of conjugation steps used to form a dendrimer conjugate e.g. versus a dendrimer that is conjugated to a targeting moiety in one step and that is separately conjugated to a linker e.g. comprising a therapeutic agent imaging agent triggering agent or other moiety in an additional conjugation step . In some embodiments a linker conjugated to one or more agents e.g. therapeutic agents imaging agents targeting agents triggering agents is conjugated to one or more additional moieties including but not limited to a therapeutic agent a triggering agent an imaging agent a triggering agent etc. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer with increased load capacity e.g. increased load of therapeutic imaging agent etc. on the dendrimer . In some embodiments two or more linkers e.g. conjugated to one or a plurality of targeting agents are conjugated to a dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer via the same or different linkage e.g. covalent linkage .

Several different schemes were evaluated for generating dendrimer conjugates e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugates wherein a dendrimer is conjugated to one or more linkers that comprise multiple sites for binding e.g. covalent binding moieties. For example in one embodiment a linker may comprise a chemical structure that allows for example conjugation of a targeting moiety and a therapeutic compound to the linker. Thus in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate permits control of the stoichiometry between targeting agent and therapeutic compound e.g. generation of one to one ratio two to one ratio one to two ratio one to three ratio etc. between targeting and therapeutic moieties .

In some embodiments the present invention provides compositions facilitating one step e.g. click chemistry conjugation of functional groups to dendrimers e.g. terminal arms of dendrimers . In some embodiments such compositions comprise multifunctional small molecule architectures e.g. scaffolds which permit conjugation to functional groups e.g. therapeutic groups imaging groups targeting groups pro drugs complexes trigger groups . In some embodiments such functional group conjugated compositions are used for one step conjugation to dendrimers e.g. to terminal branches of dendrimers or modified dendrimers . In some embodiments compositions of the present invention comprise triazine compositions. In some embodiments a triazine composition is trifunctional such that two sites are used for conjugation or binding to functional groups e.g. bioactive molecules and an azide linker is conjugated e.g. linked to the third site. Compositions of the present invention are not limited by the numerical functionality e.g. bifunctional trifunctional quadfunctional or embodiments with higher degrees of multifunctionality are contemplated.

In some embodiments a dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang dendrimer conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a functional group e.g. targeting agent and or therapeutic agent comprises a linker that is configured to be irreversibly degraded e.g. that is non reversible e.g. that permits drug delivery at the correct time and or at the correct place .

In some embodiments the present invention provides dendrimer molecules e.g. Baker Huang dendrimers conjugated to one or more therapeutic agents configured for controlled and or sustained release of the therapeutic agents e.g. through use of targeting agents linking agents and or trigger agents conjugated to the dendrimer and or therapeutic agent . In some embodiments the therapeutic agent conjugated to the dendrimer is active upon administration to a subject. In some embodiments sustained release e.g. slow release over a period of 24 48 hours of the therapeutic agent is accomplished through conjugating the therapeutic agent to the dendrimer through for example a linkage agent connected to a trigger agent that slowly degrades in a biological system e.g. amide linkage ester linkage ether linkage . In some embodiments constitutively active release of the therapeutic agent is accomplished through conjugating the therapeutic agent to the dendrimer through for example a linkage agent connected to a trigger agent that renders the therapeutic agent constitutively active in a biological system e.g. amide linkage ether linkage . In some embodiments the dendrimers conjugated to one or more therapeutic agents are simultaneously configured for sustained release e.g. a slow release mechanism that achieves therapeutic concentrations over a period of for example 24 48 hours of the therapeutic agent.

In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer conjugates comprise i a targeting agent that enables the conjugate to cross the blood brain barrier BBB and target neurons ii a locking agent e.g. a re dox locking module to prevent the dendrimer conjugate from diffusing back across the BBB and iii a therapeutic agent. The dendrimer conjugates are not limited to particular targeting agents. In some embodiments the targeting agent for CNS targeting through crossing the BBB is transferrin see e.g. Daniels T. R. et al. Clinical Immunology 2006. 121 2 p. 159 176 Daniels T. R. et al. Clinical Immunology 2006. 121 2 p. 144 158 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties . In some embodiments the targeting agent for neuron targeting is a 12 amino acid peptide Tet 1 see e.g. Liu J. K. et al. Neurobiology of Disease 2005. 19 3 p. 407 418 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . The dendrimer conjugates are not limited to particular locking agents. In some embodiments the locking agent for locking the dendrimer conjugate within the CNS is the 1 4 dihydrotrigonellinetrigonelline coffearine re dox system where the lipophilic 1 4 dihydro form L is converted in vivo to the hydrophilic quaternary form L by oxidation to prevent the dendrimer conjugate from diffusing back into the circulation see e.g. Bodor N. and P. Buchwald Drug Discovery Today 2002. 7 14 p. 766 774 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugate device is eliminated from the CNS e.g. because of acquired hydrophilicity due to loss of the quaternary form .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate as shown in . For example shows a targeting agent T.A. conjugated to a linker that is also conjugated to a drug wherein the linker conjugated to a drug and targeting agent is conjugated to a dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent I.A. . In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate as shown in A B and C e.g. possessing targeted anticancer therapeutic moiety . For example A B and C shows several structures of dendrimer conjugates wherein R1 R2 R3 and R4 are each independently selected from hydrogen halogen and alkyl. In some embodiments the alkyl is straight or cyclic unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by from 1 to 4 substituents e.g. selected from the group comprising but not limited to halogen amino monoalkylamino dialkylamino hydroxy alkoxy nitro aryl cyano carboxyl carboxyl amide monoalkylcarboxamide dialkylcarboxamide thiol thioalkyl and sulfonic acid . In some embodiments the U moiety is present or absent. In some embodiments when the U moiety is absent one of the R1 R2 R3 and or R4 groups is linked to a targeting agent through a linker and or spacer. In some embodiments R5 is an alkyl e.g. that is straight chained branched cyclic e.g. that is substituted or unsubstituted . In some embodiments R6 is a hydrogen or an alkyl e.g. of 1 4 carbons e.g. that are straight chained or cyclic e.g. that is substituted or unsubstituted . In some embodiments Ra Rb Rc Rd and Re are each independently selected from hydrogen halogen and alkyl. In some embodiments the alkyl is straight or cyclic unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by from 1 to 4 substituents e.g. selected from halogen amino monoalkylamino dialkylamino hydroxy alkoxy nitro awl cyano carboxyl carboxamide monoalkylcarboxamide dialkylcarboxamide thiol thioalkyl and sulfonic acid. In some embodiments the U moiety is present or absent. In some embodiments when the U moiety is absent one of the Ra Rb Rc Rd and Re groups is linked to a targeting agent through a linker and or spacer. In some embodiments Y is an oxygen atom. In some embodiments Y is two hydrogen atoms. In some embodiments G5 is a generation five poly amidoamine PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer e.g. conjugated to one or more imaging agents e.g. FITC etc. although higher e.g. G6 G7 G8 G9 G10 or higher or lower G4 G3 or G2 dendrimers may also be used. In some embodiments W is a linker comprising 1 8 carbon and or nitrogen atoms e.g. straight chained branched or cyclic unsubstituted or substituted by R groups as described above.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate as shown in . In particular a dendrimer conjugate as shown in comprises a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a trigger molecule that is conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a therapeutic. A dendrimer conjugate as shown in comprises a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a trigger and to a therapeutic moiety. The conjugates of are configured to be non toxic to normal cells. For example the conjugates are configured in such a way so as to release their therapeutic agent only at a specific targeted site e.g. through activation of a trigger molecule that in to leads to release of the therapeutic agent For example once a conjugate arrives at a target site in a subject e.g. a tumor or a site of inflammation components in the target site e.g. a tumor associated factor or an inflammatory or pain associated factor interacts with the trigger moiety thereby initiating cleavage of this unit from the linker. In some embodiments once the trigger is cleaved from the linker e.g. by a target associated moiety the linker proceeds through spontaneous chemical breakdown thereby releasing the therapeutic agent at the target site e.g. in its active form . The present invention is not limited to any particular target associated moiety e.g. that interacts with and initiates cleavage of a trigger . In some embodiments the target associated moiety is a tumor associated factor e.g. an enzyme e.g. glucuronidase and or plasmin a cathepsin a matrix metalloproteinase a hormone receptor e.g. integrin receptor hyaluronic acid receptor luteinizing hormone releasing hormone receptor etc. cancer and or tumor specific DNA sequence an inflammatory associated factor e.g. chemokine cytokine etc. or other moiety.

Although an understanding of a mechanism of action is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate as described in or provides a therapeutic to a site by a mechanism as shown in or . For example as shown in a dendrimer conjugate comprising a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a trigger molecule that is conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a therapeutic A interacts with a target associated moiety thereby activating the trigger and initiating cleavage of same releasing the linker therapeutic drug conjugate. Once cleavage of the trigger occurs the linker B proceeds through a spontaneous chemical breakdown at the target site releasing e.g. irreversibly releasing the therapeutic drug at the target site. In some embodiments as shown in a dendrimer conjugate comprising a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer e.g. Baker Huang dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a trigger and to a therapeutic moiety A interacts with a target associated moiety thereby activating the trigger and initiating cleavage of same releasing a dendrimer linker therapeutic moiety from the trigger. Once cleavage of the trigger occurs the linker B proceeds through a spontaneous chemical breakdown e.g. to a point where the therapeutic drug is released from the dendrimer linker conjugate at the target site releasing e.g. irreversibly releasing the therapeutic drug at the target site. In some embodiments cleavage of the trigger and subsequent linker breakdown is not necessary to deliver the therapeutic drug to the target site. Several design processes for generating a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger are shown in . In some embodiments one or more amino groups present on the dendrimer are linked e.g. through a covalent bond to one or more targeting agents e.g. folic acid and or imaging agents e.g. FITC e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 471 968 and 7 078 461 U.S. Patent Pub. Nos. 20020165179 and 20070041934 and WO 06 033766 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate as shown in A B C and D . In particular a dendrimer conjugate as shown in A B C and D comprises a dendrimer e.g. a G5 Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a trigger molecule that is conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a therapeutic or a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent conjugated to a linker that is conjugated to a trigger and to a therapeutic moiety . For example A B C and D shows several structures of dendrimer conjugates wherein R1 R2 R3 and R4 are each independently selected from hydrogen halogen and alkyl. In some embodiments the alkyl is straight or cyclic unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by from 1 to 4 substituents e.g. selected from the group comprising but not limited to halogen amino monoalkylamino dialkylamino hydroxy alkoxy nitro aryl cyano carboxyl carboxamide monoalkylcarboxamide dialkylcarboxamide thiol thioalkyl and sulfonic acid. In some embodiments R5 is an alkyl that is straight branched or cyclic that is unsubstituted or substituted. In some embodiments R6 is a hydrogen or alkyl of 1 4 carbons that are straight branched or cyclic that is unsubstituted or substituted. In some embodiments the two R6 are connected together to form a ring of 306 members. In some embodiments R R R and R are each independently selected from hydrogen halogen and alkyl. In some embodiments the alkyl is straight or cyclic unsubstituted or substituted e.g. by from 1 to 4 substituents e.g. selected from the group comprising but not limited to halogen amino monoalkylamino dialkylamino hydroxy alkoxy nitro aryl cyano carboxyl carboxamide monoalkylcarboxamide dialkylcarboxamide thiol thioalkyl and sulfonic acid. In some embodiments X X2 and X3 are either oxygen or NR wherein N is a nitrogen atom and R is an alkyl that is straight or branched or cyclic e.g. substituted or unsubstituted . In some embodiments Y is an oxygen atom or two hydrogen atoms. In some embodiments A B is an ethylene group e.g. unsubstituted or substituted by alkyls e.g. straight or cyclic . In some embodiments A B are connected by a carbon chain e.g. of 2 3 4 5 or more carbons and or hetero atoms e.g. forming a saturated or unsaturated aromatic ring structure e.g. comprising substituents such as R1 R2 R3 and R4 . In some embodiments G5 is a dendrimer e.g. a G5 PAMAM dendrimer conjugated to an imaging agent e.g. FITC and or targeting agent . As described herein the present invention is not limited to any particular dendrimer. In some embodiments W is a linker e.g. comprising a carbon or nitrogen chain e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or more carbons or nitrogens e.g. straight or branched or cyclic e.g. substituted or unsubstituted e.g. with R groups as described above .

The present invention is not limited by the type of dendrimer conjugate e.g. comprising a trigger for use in treating a subject. In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are used as delivery agents for therapeutic agents and therapeutic agent antagonists. Such dendrimer conjugates are not limited to uses within particular settings. Indeed the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention may be used in any setting requiring treatment e.g. battlefield ambulance hospital clinic rescue etc. . In addition the present invention contemplates dendrimer conjugates comprising one or more therapeutic agent prodrugs and or therapeutic agent antagonist prodrugs developed for site specific conversion to drug based on tumor associated factors e.g. hypoxia and pH tumor associated enzymes and or receptors . In some embodiments dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are configured such that a prodrug e.g. therapeutic agent prodrug therapeutic agent antagonist prodrug is conjugated to a linker that is further conjugated to a targeting moiety e.g. that targets the conjugate to a particular body region e.g. CNS . Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary for the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments a trigger component serves as a precursor for site specific activation. For example in some embodiments once the trigger recognizes a particular condition e.g. hypoxia cleavage and or processing of the trigger is induced thereby releasing the therapeutic agent and or therapeutic antagonist.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a linker that connects to a therapeutic compound. In some embodiments the linker is configured such that its decomposition leads to the liberation e.g. non reversible liberation of the therapeutic agent e.g. at the target site e.g. site of tumor CNS and or inflammatory site . The linker may influence multiple characteristics of a dendrimer conjugate including but not limited to properties of the therapeutic agent e.g. stability pharmacokinetic organ distribution bioavailability and or enzyme recognition e.g. when the therapeutic agent e.g. prodrug is enzymatically activated .

In some embodiments the linker is an elimination linker. For example in some embodiments in a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate when a trigger is cleaved e.g. enzymatically and or chemically a phenol or an aniline promotes a facile 1 4 or 1 6 elimination followed by release of a COmolecule and the unmasked therapeutic agent e.g. drug . In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention utilizes this configuration and or strategy to mask one or more hydroxyl groups and or amino groups of the therapeutic agents. In some embodiments a linker present within a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is fine tuned e.g. to optimize stability and or drug release from the conjugate . For example the sizes of the aromatic substituents can be altered e.g. increased or decreased and or alkyl substitutions at the benzylic position may be made to alter e.g. increase or decrease degradation of the linker and or release of the therapeutic agent e.g. prodrug . In some embodiments elongated analogs e.g. double spacers are used e.g. to decrease steric hindrance e.g. for large therapeutic agents . In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprises an enol based linker e.g. that undergoes an elimination reaction to release therapeutic agent e.g. prodrug .

In some embodiments the linker is a cyclization based linker. For example one configuration for this approach is shown in . A nucleophilic group e.g. OH or NHR that becomes available once the trigger is cleaved attacks the carbonyl of the C O X Therapeutic agent drug e.g. thereby leading to release of therapeutic agent XH and thereby to quickly release the Drug XH. In some embodiments a driving force that permits the reaction to reach completion is the stability of the cyclic product. In some embodiments a cyclization based linker of a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention include but are not limited to those shown in .

In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprises a combination of one or more linkers. For example in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate comprises a combination of two or more elimination linkers. In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprises two or more cyclization linkers. In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprises a one or more elimination linkers and one or more cyclization linkers or a combination of one or more different types of linkers described herein. For example in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate comprises a linker as shown in .

In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprises branched self elimination linkers e.g. as shown in . Thus in some embodiments use of branched linkers provides a conjugate that can present increased concentrations of a therapeutic agent to a target site e.g. inflammatory site tumor site etc. .

In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is generated by a process comprising conjugating a pre formed tripartite piece e.g. trigger linker and therapeutic agent to a dendrimer e.g. a G5 Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer e.g. conjugated to one or more different types of agents e.g. imaging agent . In some embodiments linkage between a tripartite piece and a dendrimer comprises a non cleavable bond e.g. an ether or an amide bond e.g. thereby decreasing unwanted activation of a trigger and or degradation of a linker and or release of therapeutic drug . In some embodiments a linker e.g. linear or other type of linker described herein is utilized to attach a tripartite moiety e.g. trigger linker and therapeutic agent to a dendrimer e.g. in order to increase drug release decrease steric hindrance and or increase stability of the dendrimer . For example in some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate as shown in .

In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate comprises a dendrimer conjugated to a linker e.g. optionally conjugated to a trigger that is conjugated to a therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugate comprises a self immolative connector between an ester bond e.g. that is to be cleaved and the therapeutic agent e.g. thereby enhancing drug release . For example although a mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention comprising an ester linkage undergoes esterase catalyzed hydrolysis e.g. as shown in e.g. G5 dendrimer comprising a self degradable spacer and therapeutic agent . Thus in contrast to a dendrimer comprising a simple ester e.g. a dendrimer in the top portion of wherein therapeutic agent release may or may not occur e.g. if x NH in some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising an elimination linker e.g. a 1 6 elimination linker spacer as shown in the bottom portion of e.g. that permits complete hydrolysis of the linker e.g. at a target site .

The present invention is not limited by the type of linker configuration. In some embodiments the linker is conjugated via a free amino group via an amide linkage e.g. formed from an active ester e.g. the N hydroxysuccinimide ester . In some embodiments an ester linkage remains in the conjugate after conjugation. In some embodiments linkage occurs through a lysine residue. In some embodiments conjugation occurs through a short acting degradable linkage. The present invention is not limited by the type of degradable linkage utilized. Indeed a variety of linkages are contemplated to be useful in the present invention including but not limited to physiologically cleavable linkages including ester carbonate ester carbamate sulfate phosphate acyloxyalkyl ether acetal and ketal linkages. In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate comprises a cleavable linkage present in the linkage between the dendrimer and linker and or targeting agent and or therapeutic agent present therein e.g. such that when cleaved no portion of the linkage remains on the dendrimer . In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate comprises a cleavable linkage present in the linker itself e.g. such that when cleaved a small portion of the linkage remains on the dendrimer .

The present invention is not limited to a particular trigger agent or to any particular cleavage and or processing of the trigger agent. In some embodiments the present invention provides therapeutic agents and or therapeutic agent antagonists coupled to dendrimers with a linkage agent connected to a trigger agent that slowly degrades in a biological system e.g. amide linkage ester linkage ether linkage .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by hypoxia. Hypoxia is a feature of several disease states including cancer inflammation and rheumatoid arthritis as well as an indicator of respiratory depression e.g. resulting from analgesic drugs . Advances in the chemistry of bioreductive drug activation have led to the design of various hypoxia selective drug delivery systems in which the pharmacophores of drugs are masked by reductively cleaved groups. In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate utilizes a quinone N oxide and or hetero aromatic nitro groups. For example a quinone present in a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is reduced to phenol under hypoxia conditions with spontaneous formation of lactone that serves as a driving force for drug release. In some embodiments a heteroaromatic nitro compound present in a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is reduced to either an amine or a hydroxylamine thereby triggering the spontaneous release of a therapeutic agent drug. In some embodiments the present invention provides therapeutic agents and or therapeutic agent antagonists coupled to dendrimers with a linkage agent connected to a trigger agent that degrades upon detection of reduced pO2 concentrations e.g. through use of a re dox linker .

The concept of prodrug systems in which the pharmacophores of drugs are masked by reductively cleavable groups has been widely explored by many research groups and pharmaceutical companies see e.g. Beall H. D. et al. Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 1998. 41 24 p. 4755 4766 Ferrer S. D. P. Naughton and M. D. Threadgill Tetrahedron 2003. 59 19 p. 3445 3454 Naylor M. A. et al. Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 1997. 40 15 p. 2335 2346 Phillips R. M. et al. Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 1999. 42 20 p. 4071 4080 Zhang Z. et al. Organic Biomolecular Chemistry 2005. 3 10 p. 1905 1910 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties . Several such hypoxia activated prodrugs have been advanced to clinical investigations and work in relevant oxygen concentrations to prevent cerebral damage. The present invention is not limited to particular hypoxia activated trigger agents. In some embodiments the hypoxia activated trigger agents include but are not limited to indoquinones nitroimidazoles and nitroheterocycles see e.g. Damen E. W. P. et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry 2002. 10 1 p. 71 77 Hay M. P. et al. Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 2003. 46 25 p. 5533 5545 Hay M. P. et al. Journal of the Chemical Society Perkin Transactions 1 1999 19 p. 2759 2770 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate e.g. a Baker Huang dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with a tumor associated enzyme. In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with a glucuronidase. Glucuronic acid can be attached to several anticancer drugs via various linkers. These anticancer drugs include but are not limited to doxorubicin paclitaxel docetaxel 5 fluorouracil 9 aminocamptothecin as well as other drugs under development. These prodrugs are generally stable at physiological pH and are significantly less toxic than the parent drugs. In some embodiments dendrimer conjugates comprising anticancer prodrugs find use for treating necrotic tumors e.g. that liberate glucuronidase or for ADEPT with antibodies that can deliver glucuronidase to target tumor cells.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with brain enzymes. For example trigger agents such as indolequinone are reduced by brain enzymes such as for example diaphorase see e.g. Damen E. W. P. et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry 2002. 10 1 p. 71 77 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . For example in such embodiments the antagonist is only active when released during hypoxia to prevent respiratory failure.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with a protease. The present invention is not limited to any particular protease. In some embodiments the protease is a cathepsin. In some embodiments a trigger comprises a Lys Phe PABC moiety e.g. that acts as a trigger . In some embodiments a Lys Phe PABC moiety linked to doxorubicin mitomycin C and paclitaxel are utilized as a trigger therapeutic conjugate in a dendrimer conjugate provided herein e.g. that serve as substrates for lysosomal cathepsin B or other proteases expressed e.g. overexpressed in tumor cells. In some embodiments utilization of a 1 6 elimination spacer linker is utilized e.g. to permit release of therapeutic drug post activation of trigger .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with plasmin. The serine protease plasmin is over expressed in many human tumor tissues. Tripeptide specifiers e.g. including but not limited to Val Leu Lys have been identified and linked to anticancer drugs through elimination or cyclization linkers.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with a matrix metalloproteases MMPs . In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or that associates with Lactamase e.g. a Lactamase activated cephalosporin based prodrug .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or activated by a receptor e.g. expressed on a target cell e.g. a tumor cell . Thus in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate comprises a receptor binding motif conjugated to a therapeutic agent e.g. cytotoxic drug thereby providing target specificity. Examples include but are not limited to a dendrimer conjugate comprising a prodrug e.g. of doxorubicin and or paclitaxel targeting integrin receptor a hyaluronic acid receptor and or a hormone receptor

In some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a trigger agent that is sensitive to e.g. is cleaved by and or activated by a nucleic acid. Nucleic acid triggered catalytic drug release can be utilized in the design of chemotherapeutic agents. Thus in some embodiments disease specific nucleic acid sequence is utilized as a drug releasing enzyme like catalyst e.g. via complex formation with a complimentary catalyst bearing nucleic acid and or analog . In some embodiments the release of a therapeutic agent is facilitated by the therapeutic component being attached to a labile protecting group such as for example cisplatin or methotrexate being attached to a photolabile protecting group that becomes released by laser light directed at cells emitting a color of fluorescence e.g. in addition to and or in place of target activated activation of a trigger component of a dendrimer conjugate . In some embodiments the therapeutic device also may have a component to monitor the response of the tumor to therapy. For example where a therapeutic agent of the dendrimer induces apoptosis of a target cell e.g. a cancer cell e.g. a prostate cancer cell the caspase activity of the cells may be used to activate a green fluorescence. This allows apoptotic cells to turn orange combination of red and green while residual cells remain red. Any normal cells that are induced to undergo apoptosis in collateral damage fluoresce green.

The present invention is not limited to the use of particular therapeutic agents. In some embodiments the therapeutic agents are effective in treating autoimmune disorders and or inflammatory disorders e.g. arthritis . Examples of such therapeutic agents include but are not limited to disease modifying antirheumatic drugs e.g. leflunomide methotrexate sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine biologic agents e.g. rituximab infliximab etanercept adalimumab golimumab nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs e.g. ibuprofen celecoxib ketoprofen naproxen piroxicam diclofenac analgesics e.g. acetaminophen tramadol immunomodulators e.g. anakinra abatacept glucocorticoids e.g. prednisone methylprednisone TNF inhibitors e.g. adalimumab certolizumab pegol etanercept golimumab infliximab IL 1 inhibitors and metalloprotease inhibitors. In some embodiments the therapeutic agents include but are not limited to infliximab adalimumab etanercept parenteral gold or oral gold.

In some embodiments the therapeutic agents are effective in treating cancer see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 471 968 7 078 461 U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 940 243 10 431 682 11 503 742 11 661 465 11 523 509 12 403 179 12 106 876 11 827 637 10 039 393 10 254 126 09 867 924 12 570 977 and Ser. No. 12 645 081 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 140 480 61 091 608 61 097 780 61 101 461 60 604 321 60 690 652 60 707 991 60 208 728 60 718 448 61 035 949 60 830 237 and 60 925 181 and International Patent Application Nos. PCT US2010 050893 PCT US2010 042556 PCT US2001 015204 PCT US2005 030278 PCT US2009 069257 PCT US2009 036992 PCT US2009 059071 PCT US2007 015976 and PCT US2008 061023 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

In some embodiments of the present invention the therapeutic agent includes but is not limited to a chemotherapeutic agent an anti oncogenic agent an anti angiogenic agent a tumor suppressor agent an anti microbial agent or an expression construct comprising a nucleic acid encoding a therapeutic protein although the present invention is not limited by the nature of the therapeutic agent. In further embodiments the therapeutic agent is protected with a protecting group selected from photo labile radio labile and enzyme labile protecting groups. In some embodiments the chemotherapeutic agent is selected from a group consisting of but not limited to platinum complex verapamil podophylltoxin carboplatin procarbazine mechloroethamine cyclophosphamide camptothecin ifosfamide melphalan chlorambucil bisulfan nitrosurea adriamycin dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin bleomycin plicomycin mitomycin bleomycin etoposide tamoxifen paclitaxel taxol transplatinum 5 fluorouracil vincristin vinblastin bisphosphonate e.g. CB3717 chemotherapeutic agents with high affinity for folic acid receptors ALIMTA Eli Lilly and methotrexate. In some embodiments the anti oncogenic agent comprises an antisense nucleic acid e.g. RNA molecule . In certain embodiments the antisense nucleic acid comprises a sequence complementary to an RNA of an oncogene. In preferred embodiments the oncogene includes but is not limited to abl Bcl 2 Bcl xL erb fms gsp hst jun myc neu raf ras ret src or trk. In some embodiments the nucleic acid encoding a therapeutic protein encodes a factor including but not limited to a tumor suppressor cytokine receptor inducer of apoptosis or differentiating agent. In preferred embodiments the tumor suppressor includes but is not limited to BRCA1 BRCA2 C CAM p16 p21 p53 p73 Rb and p27. In preferred embodiments the cytokine includes but is not limited to GMCSF IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 IL 13 IL 14 IL 15 interferon interferon and TNF. In preferred embodiments the receptor includes but is not limited to CFTR EGFR estrogen receptor IL 2 receptor and VEGFR. In preferred embodiments the inducer of apoptosis includes but is not limited to AdE1B Bad Bak Bax Bid Bik Bim Harakid and ICE CED3 protease. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent comprises a short half life radioisotope.

Dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are not limited by the type of anti angiogenic agent used. Indeed a variety of anti angiogenic agents are contemplated to be useful in the compositions of the present invention including but not limited to Batimastat Marimastat AG3340 Neovastat PEX TIMP 1 2 3 4 PAI 1 2 uPA Ab uPAR Ab Amiloride Minocycline tetracyclines steroids cartilage derived TIMP v 3 Ab LM609 and Vitaxin RGD containing peptides v 5 Ab Endostatin Angiostatin aaAT IFN IFN IL 12 nitric oxide synthase inhibitors TSP 1 TNP 470 Combretastatin A4 Thalidomide Linomide IFN PF 4 prolactin fragment Suramin and analogues PPS distamycin A analogues FGF 2 Ab antisense FGF 2 Protamine SU5416 soluble Flt 1 dominant negative Flk 1 VEGF receptor ribosymes VEGF Ab Aspirin NS 398 6 AT 6A5BU 7 DX Genistein Lavendustin A Ang 2 batimastat marimastat anti v 3 monoclonal antibody LM609 thrombospondin 1 TSP 1 Angiostatin endostatin TNP 470 Combretastatin A 4 Anti VEGF antibodies soluble Flk 1 Flt 1 receptors inhibitors of tyrosine kinase receptors SU5416 heparin binding growth factors pentosan polysulfate platelet derived endothelial cell growth factor Thymidine phosphorylase PD ECGF TP cox e.g. cox 1 an cox 2 inhibitors e.g. Celebrex and Vioxx DT385 Tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease TIMP 1 TIMP 2 Zinc Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 p53 Rb Interleukin 10 Interleukin 12 Angiopoietin 2 Angiotensin Angiotensin II AT2 receptor Caveolin 1 caveolin 2 Angiopoietin 2 Angiotensin Angiotensin II AT2 receptor Caveolin 1 caveolin 2 Endostatin Interferon alpha Isoflavones Platelet factor 4 Prolactin 16 Kd fragment Thrombospondin Troponin 1 Bay 12 9566 AG3340 CGS 27023A CGS 27023A COL 3 Neovastat BMS 275291 Penicillamine TNP 470 fumagillin derivative Squalamine Combretastatin Endostatin Penicillamine Farnesyl Transferase Inhibitor FTI L 778 123 SCH66336 R115777 anti VEGF antibody Thalidomide SU5416 Ribozyme Angiozyme SU6668 PTK787 ZK22584 Interferon alpha Interferon alpha Suramin Vitaxin EMD121974 Penicillamine Tetrathiomolybdate Captopril serine protease inhibitors CAI ABT 627 CM101 ZDO101 Interleukin 12 IM862 PNU 145156E those described in U.S. Patent App. No. 20050123605 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and fragments or portions of the above that retain anti angiogenic e.g. angiostatic or inhibitory properties .

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is a pain relief agent. The dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are not limited to a particular type or kind of pain relief agent.

In some embodiments the pain relief agents include several medications that have been used for field deployment and have a proven efficacy for military medical applications see e.g. Emergency war surgery. 3rd ed. 2004 Department of Defense USA herein incorporated by reference in its entirety see Table 2 . These drugs include but are not limited to Ketamine narcotics e.g. Morphine fentanyl hydromorphone benzodiazepines e.g. midazolam diazepam Lorazepam and the selective antagonist of narcotics e.g. Naloxone and benzodiazepines e.g. flumazenil . Military relevance is supported by the fact for example that small amounts of Morphine and Ketamine are used by medics during extraction evacuation of the injured from the battle field.

In some embodiments the pain relief agent is Ketamine. Ketamine is a potent analgesic amnestic and anxiolytic even in the low dose range while amnesia extends beyond its analgesic duration. Ketamine s therapeutic index is large and as levels are increased general anesthesia is achieved. Unlike other current general anesthetic agents vital functions e.g. neuromuscular tone airway patency respirations and cardiovascular function are maintained. All narcotic agents e.g. Morphine display effects opposite of those of Ketamine with respect to vital functions. As narcotic levels are increased respirations neuromuscular tone and airway patency are decreased while cardiovascular function may also be compromised particularly due to peripheral vasodilatation. Ketamine also induces bronchodilation which is particularly useful when irritants cause bronchoconstriction and coughing. Morphine suppresses coughing and either leaves bronchomotor tone unaltered or increases it see e.g. 4th ed. 1994 Churchill Livingstone New York 9th ed. 1996 McGraw Hill Health Professions Division New York each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . When faced with severe injuries and blood loss low dose Ketamine provides analgesia and amnesia while preserving homeostatic mechanisms and vital functions. Ketamine levels can be increased to achieve a state of dissociation in which major procedures e.g. an amputation can be accomplished with cardio respiratory stability while the individual seems unattached to the procedure. Dissociation is unique to Ketamine.

In some embodiments the present invention provides dendrimer conjugates comprising Ketamine and Lorazepam. Unfortunately disforic reactions can occur in a small percentage of recipients but can be effectively treated with the concurrent administration of benzodiazepines e.g. Lorazepam . Lorazepam has excellent amnestic and anxiolytic properties which are very desirable in the severely injured combatant see e.g. 4th ed. 1994 Churchill Livingstone New York 9th ed. 1996 McGraw Hill Health Professions Division New York each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . It does not have analgesic nor anesthetic properties. It has mild centrally mediated muscle relaxant properties while it is an anticonvulsant. Its effects on homeostasis of the respiratory and hemodynamic system are mildly depressant when used in the dose range of its anxiolytic properties.

In some embodiments the pain relief agent is Morphine. Morphine is the standard against which all other analgesics are compared. It is less potent as an analgesic when compared to Ketamine. Its sedation can be accompanied by euphoria but its amnestic and anxiolytic effects are less when compared to Ketamine and Lorazepam. Even in high doses Morphine is a poor anesthetic and an unreliable amnestic but these properties may maintain co operativity on the battlefield. Morphine s analgesic effects overlap closely with its effects on homeostasis of the respiratory and hemodynamic system. Thus as the dosage of Morphine is increased depression of respirations and loss of airway patency and reflexes become soon apparent relative to Ketamine s effect. Its hemodynamic effects include veno vasodilatation within the range of Morphine s analgesia. Thus in the severely injured with blood loss Morphine s analgesic range is limited by its effects on homeostasis of vital functions. Morphine s therapeutic index particularly in the setting of the severely injured combatant is low compared to the index for Ketamine. Thus Morphine has many good qualities but should be administered in a manner to avoid side effects.

In some embodiments the pain relief agent antagonist is Doxapram. Doxapram is a respiratory stimulant causing an increase in tidal volume with an increase in respiratory rate used in acute respiratory insufficiency. It can improve cardiac output in the setting of hypovolemia. It may increase catecholamines release. Doxapram is useful as a respiratory and cardiovascular stimulant in the battlefield field setting to reduce or negate respiratory and hemodynamic effects of any proposed analgesic amnestic anxiolytic agents. Thus the release of Doxapram is a viable counter regulatory effect for respiratory depression whatever the cause.

In some embodiments the pain relief agent antagonist is Naloxone. Naloxone is an effective selective opioid e.g. Morphine antagonist. It reverses a range of Morphine s effects including Morphine s analgesia and respiratory depression. Although Morphine s analgesic and respiratory ranges overlap low dose infusions of Naloxone can reverse Morphine s respiratory depression while its analgesic effect is relatively unaffected and pain relief can remain present. Thus it is a prime candidate for a dendrimer drug delivery system requiring a Morphine feedback mechanism.

In some embodiments pain relief agents include but are not limited to analgesic drugs and respective antagonists. Examples of analgesic drugs include but are not limited to paracetamol and Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs COX 2 inhibitors opiates and morphonimimetics and specific analgesic agents.

Examples of NSAIDs include but are not limited to salicylates e.g. Acetylsalicylic acid Aspirin Amoxiprin Benorylate Benorilate Choline magnesium salicylate Diflunisal Ethenzamide Faislamine Methyl salicylate Magnesium salicylate Salicyl salicylate Salicylamide arylalkanoic acids e.g. Diclofenac Aceclofenac Acemethacin Alclofenac Bromfenac Etodolac Indometacin Nabumetone Oxametacin Proglumetacin Sulindac Tolmetin 2 arylpropionic acids profens e.g. Ibuprofen Alminoprofen Benoxaprofen Carprofen Dexibuprofen Dexketoprofen Fenbufen Fenoprofen Flunoxaprofen Flurbiprofen Ibuproxam Indoprofen Ketoprofen Ketorolac Loxoprofen Naproxen Oxaprozin Pirprofen Suprofen Tiaprofenic acid N arylanthranilic acids fenamic acids e.g. Mefenamic acid Flufenamic acid Meclofenamic acid Tolfenamic acid pyrazolidine derivatives e.g. Phenylbutazone Ampyrone Azapropazone Clofezone Kebuzone Metamizole Mofebutazone Oxyphenbutazone Phenazone Sulfinpyrazone oxicams e.g. Piroxicam Droxicam Lornoxicam Meloxicam Tenoxicam sulphonanilides e.g. nimesulide licofelone and omega 3 fatty acids.

Examples of COX 2 inhibitors include but are not limited to Celecoxib Etoricoxib Lumiracoxib Parecoxib Rofecoxib Valdecoxib.

Examples of Opiates include but are not limited to natural opiates e.g. alkaloids contained in the resin of the opium poppy including morphine codeine and thebaine semi synthetic opiates e.g. created from the natural opioids such as hydromorphone hydrocodone oxycodone oxymorphone desomorphine diacetylmorphine Heroin nicomorphine dipropanoylmorphine diamorphine benzylmorphine Buprenorphine Nalbuphine Pentazocine meperidine diamorphine and ethylmorphine fully synthetic opioids e.g. such as fentanyl pethidine Oxycodone Oxymorphone methadone tramadol Butorphanol Levorphanol and propoxyphene and endogenous opioid peptides e.g. produced naturally in the body such as endorphins enkephalins dynorphins and endomorphins .

Additional analgesics include but are not limited to tricyclic antidepressants e.g. amitriptyline carbamazepine gabapentin and pregabalin Tetrahydrocannabinol ketamine clonidine adrenoreceptor agonists mexiletine Orphenadrine cyclobenzaprine scopolamine atropine gabapentin first generation antidepressants and other drugs possessing anticholinergic and or antispasmodic.

In some embodiments pain relief agents include anesthetic drugs and respective antagonists. Examples of anesthetic drugs include but are not limited to local anesthetics e.g. procaine amethocaine cocaine lidocaine prilocaine bupivacaine levobupivacaine ropivacaine dibucaine inhaled anesthetics e.g. Desflurane Enflurane Halothane Isoflurane Nitrous oxide Sevoflurane Xenon intravenous anesthetics e.g. Barbiturates e.g. amobarbital Amytal pentobarbital Nembutal secobarbital Seconal Phenobarbital Methohexital Thiopental Methylphenobarbital Metharbital Barbexaclone Benzodiazepines e.g. alprazolam bromazepam Lexotan chlordiazepoxide Librium Clobazam Clonazepam Clorazepate Diazepam Midazolam Lorazepam Nitrazepam temazepam nimetazepam Estazolam Flunitrazepam oxazepam Serax temazepam Restoril Normison Planum Tenox and Temaze Triazolam Etomidate Ketamine Propofol .

In some embodiments pain relief agents include anticonvulsant drugs and respective antagonists. Examples of anticonvulsant drugs include but are not limited to aldehydes e.g. paraldehyde aromatic allylic alcohols e.g. stiripentol barbiturates e.g. amobarbital Amytal pentobarbital Nembutal secobarbital Seconal Phenobarbital Methohexital Thiopental Methylphenobarbital Metharbital Barbexaclone benzodiazepines e.g. alprazolam bromazepam Lexotan chlordiazepoxide Librium Clobazam Clonazepam Clorazepate Diazepam Midazolam Lorazepam Nitrazepam temazepam nimetazepam Estazolam Flunitrazepam oxazepam Serax temazepam Restoril Normison Planum Tenox and Temaze Triazolam bromides e.g. potassium bromide carbamates e.g. felbamate carboxamides e.g. carbamazepine oxcarbazepine fatty acids e.g. valproates e.g. valproic acid sodium valproate and divalproex sodium Vigabatrin Progabide Tiagabine fructose derivatives e.g. topiramate gaba analogs e.g. gabapentin pregabalin hydantoins e.g. Ethotoin Phenyloin Mephenyloin Fosphenyloin Oxazolidinediones e.g. paramethadione trimethadione ethadione priopionates e.g. primidone pyrrolidines e.g. brivaracetam levetiracetam seletracetam succinimides e.g. Ethosuximide Phensuximide Mesuximide sulfonamides e.g. Acetazolamide Sulthiame Methazolamide Zonisamide triazines e.g. lamotrigine ureas e.g. pheneturide phenacemide and valproylamdies amide derivatives of valproate e.g. valpromide valnoctamide .

In some embodiments pain relief agents include mood stabilizer drugs. Examples of mood stabilizer drugs include but are not limited to Lithium carbonate lithium orotate lithium salt Valproic acid Depakene divalproex sodium Depakote sodium valproate Depacon Lamotrigine Lamictal Carbamazepine Tegretol Gabapentin Neurontin Oxcarbazepine Trileptal and Topiramate Topamax .

In some embodiments pain relief agents include psycholeptic drugs. Examples of psycholeptic drugs include but are not limited to anxiolytic drugs antipsychotic drugs and hypnotic drugs and sedative drugs. Examples of anxiolytic drugs include but are not limited to benzodiazepines e.g. alprazolam bromazepam Lexotan chlordiazepoxide Librium Clobazam Clonazepam Clorazepate Diazepam Midazolam Lorazepam Nitrazepam temazepam nimetazepam Estazolam Flunitrazepam oxazepam Serax temazepam Restoril Normison Planum Tenox and Temaze Triazolam serotonin 1A agonists e.g. Buspirone BuSpar barbituates e.g. amobarbital Amytal pentobarbital Nembutal secobarbital Seconal Phenobarbital Methohexital Thiopental Methylphenobarbital Metharbital Barbexaclone hydroxyzine cannabidiol and herbal treatments. e.g. valerian kava Kava Kava chamomile Kratom Blue extracts kanna and . are reputed to have anxiolytic properties. Examples of antipsychotic drugs include but are not limited to butyrophenones e.g. haloperidol phenothiazines e.g. Chlorpromazine Thorazine Fluphenazine Prolixin Perphenazine Trilafon Prochlorperazine Compazine Thioridazine Mellaril Trifluoperazine Stelazine Mesoridazine Promazine Triflupromazine Vesprin Levomepromazine Nozinan Promethazine Phenergan thioxanthenes e.g. Chlorprothixene Flupenthixol Depixol and Fluanxol Thiothixene Navane Zuclopenthixol Clopixol Acuphase clozapine olanzapine Risperidone Risperdal Quetiapine Seroquel Ziprasidone Geodon Amisulpride Solian Paliperidone Invega dopamine bifeprunox norclozapine ACP 104 Aripiprazole Abilify Tetrabenazine and Cannabidiol. Examples of hypnotics include but are not limited to Barbiturates Opioids benzodiazepines e.g. alprazolam bromazepam Lexotan chlordiazepoxide Librium Clobazam Clonazepam Clorazepate Diazepam Midazolam Lorazepam Nitrazepam temazepam nimetazepam Estazolam Flunitrazepam oxazepam Serax temazepam Restoril Normison Planum Tenox and Temaze Triazolam nonbenzodiazepines e.g. Zolpidem Zaleplon Zopiclone Eszopiclone antihistamines e.g. Diphenhydramine Doxylamine Hydroxyzine Promethazine gamma hydroxybutyric acid Xyrem Glutethimide Chloral hydrate Ethchlorvynol Levomepromazine Chlormethiazole Melatonin and Alcohol. Examples of sedatives include but are not limited to barbituates e.g. amobarbital Amytal pentobarbital Nembutal secobarbital Seconal Phenobarbital Methohexital Thiopental Methylphenobarbital Metharbital Barbexaclone benzodiazepines e.g. alprazolam bromazepam Lexotan chlordiazepoxide Librium Clobazam Clonazepam Clorazepate Diazepam Midazolam Lorazepam Nitrazepam temazepam nimetazepam Estazolam Flunitrazepam oxazepam Serax temazepam Restoril Normison Planum Tenox and Temaze Triazolam Herbal sedatives e.g. ashwagandha catnip kava mandrake marijuana valerian solvent sedatives e.g. chloral hydrate Noctec diethyl ether Ether ethyl alcohol alcoholic beverage methyl trichloride Chloroform nonbenzodiazepine sedatives e.g. eszopiclone Lunesta zaleplon Sonata zolpidem Ambien zopiclone Imovane Zimovane clomethiazole clomethiazole gamma hydroxybutyrate GHB Thalidomide ethchlorvynol Placidyl glutethimide Doriden ketamine Ketalar Ketaset methaqualone Sopor Quaalude methyprylon Noludar and ramelteon Rozerem .

In some embodiments pain relief agents include psychoanaleptic drugs. Examples of psychoanaleptic drugs include but are not limited to antidepressants psychostimulants and anti dementia drugs. Examples of antidepressants include but are not limited to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs e.g. fluoxetine Prozac paroxetine Paxil Seroxat escitalopram Lexapro Esipram citalopram Celexa and sertraline Zoloft serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors SNRIs e.g. venlafaxine Effexor and duloxetine Cymbalta noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressants NASSAs e.g. mirtazapine Avanza Zispin Remeron norepinephrine noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors NRIs e.g. reboxetine Edronax norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors e.g. bupropion Wellbutrin Zyban tricyclic antidepressants TCAs e.g. amitriptyline and desipramine monoamine oxidase inhibitor MAOIs e.g. phenelzine Nardil moclobemide Manerix selegiline and augmentor drugs e.g. tryptophan Tryptan and buspirone Buspar . Examples of psychostimulants include but are not limited to amphetamine methamphetamine cocaine methylphenidate and arecoline . Examples of anti dementia drugs include but are not limited to Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors e.g. Tacrine Cognex donepezil Aricept galantamine Razadyne and rivastigmine Exelon .

In some embodiments pain relief agents include muscle relaxant drugs. Examples of muscle relaxant drugs include but are not limited to depolarizing muscle relaxants e.g. Succinylcholine short acting non depolarizing muscle relaxants e.g. Mivacurium Rapacuronium intermediate acting non depolarizing muscle relaxants e.g. Atracurium Cisatracurium Rocuronium Vecuronium and long acting non depolarizing muscle relaxants e.g. Alcuronium Doxacurium Gallamine Metocurine Pancuronium Pipecuronium d Tubocurarine .

In some embodiments the pain relief agent antagonists include drugs that counter the effect e.g. side effect main effect cardiovascular effect of a pain relief agent. The present invention is not limited to particular pain relief agent antagonists e.g. Anesthetic antagonists Analgesic antagonists Anticonvulsant antagonists Mood stabilizer antagonists Psycholeptic drug antagonists Psychoanaleptic drug antagonists and muscle relaxant antagonists . In some embodiments the pain relief agent antagonists include but are not limited to respiratory stimulants e.g. Doxapram BIMU 8 CX 546 opiod receptor antagonists e.g. Naloxone naltrexone nalorphine levallorphan cyprodime naltrindole norbinaltorphimine buprenorphine agents that effect of benzodiazepines e.g. flumazenil agents that reverse the effect of non depolarizing muscle relaxants e.g. neostigmine .

In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugated comprising a linker may comprise nearly any therapeutic agent comprising a hydroxyl and or amino group. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is an anti cancer drug or agent. For example in some embodiments the therapeutic agent is doxorubicin or an analog thereof or paclitaxel or an analog thereof . In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the invention comprises a therapeutic agent comprising a single reactive group e.g. at a primary or secondary position . In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is synthesized utilizing a selective protection deprotection strategy if multiple functional groups are present within a therapeutic agent. In some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention provides the ability to deliver a therapeutic agent that when not in the context of the dendrimer conjugate e.g. in the absence of conjugation to a dendrimer e.g. a dendrimer comprising a linker and a trigger e.g. configured to shield and or mask the therapeutic drug and or prohibit release of the therapeutic drug until the dendrimer reaches and reacts with a target site is toxic to a subject e.g. that is too toxic to be utilized to treat a subject . Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides dendrimer conjugates comprising therapeutic agents that suffer from delivery issues and or toxicity issues and or non specificity issues in the absence of being conjugated to a dendrimer conjugate. For example in some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising a therapeutic agent comprising a compound of the camptothecin family e.g. IRINOTECAN . IRINOTECAN is a prodrug of 10 hydroxycamptothecin SN 38 which is 1000 fold more cytotoxic than IRINOTECAN. It has been reported that the conversion of irinotecan to hydroxycamptothecin has very low efficiency. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a dendrimer conjugate comprising hydroxycamptothecin.

In some embodiments of the present invention the biological monitoring agent comprises an agent that measures an effect of a therapeutic agent e.g. directly or indirectly measures a cellular factor or reaction induced by a therapeutic agent however the present invention is not limited by the nature of the biological monitoring agent. In some embodiments the monitoring agent is capable of detecting e.g. measuring apoptosis caused by the therapeutic agent.

In some embodiments of the present invention the imaging agent comprises a radioactive label including but not limited to C Cl Co Co Cr I I Ln Eu Fe Ga P Re Se Tc 99m and Yb. In some embodiments the imaging agent comprises a fluorescing entity. In a preferred embodiment the imaging agent is fluorescein isothiocyanate or 6 TAMARA.

The present invention is not limited to any particular targeting agent. In some embodiments targeting agents are conjugated to the dendrimers e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers for delivery of the dendrimers to desired body regions e.g. to the central nervous system CNS . The targeting agents are not limited to targeting specific body regions. In some embodiments the targeting agents target the central nervous system CNS . In some embodiments where the targeting agent is specific for the CNS the targeting agent is transferrin see e.g. Daniels T. R. et al. Clinical Immunology 2006. 121 2 p. 159 176 Daniels T. R. et al. Clinical Immunology 2006. 121 2 p. 144 158 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties . Transferrin has been utilized as a targeting vector to transport for example drugs liposomes and proteins across the BBB by receptor mediated transcytosis see e.g. Smith M. W. and M. Gumbleton Journal of Drug Targeting 2006. 14 4 p. 191 214 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . In some embodiments the targeting agents target neurons within the central nervous system CNS . In some embodiments where the targeting agent is specific for neurons within the CNS the targeting agent is a synthetic tetanus toxin fragment e.g. a 12 amino acid peptide Tet 1 HLNILSTLWKYR SEQ ID NO 2 see e.g. Liu J. K. et al. Neurobiology of Disease 2005. 19 3 p. 407 418 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

In some embodiments the targeting agent is a moiety that has affinity for a tumor associated factor. For example a number of targeting agents are contemplated to be useful in the present invention including but not limited to RGD sequences low density lipoprotein sequences a NAALADase inhibitor epidermal growth factor and other agents that bind with specificity to a target cell e.g. a cancer cell . In some embodiments the targeting agent is an antibody receptor ligand hormone vitamin or antigen. However the present invention is not limited by the nature of the targeting agent. In some embodiments the antibody is specific for a disease specific antigen. In some embodiments the disease specific antigen comprises a tumor specific antigen. In some embodiments the receptor ligand includes but is not limited to a ligand for CFTR EGFR estrogen receptor FGR2 folate receptor IL 2 receptor glycoprotein or VEGFR. In some embodiments the receptor ligand is folic acid.

The present invention is not limited to cancer and or tumor targeting agents. Indeed dendrimers of the present invention can be targeted e.g. via a linker conjugated to the dendrimer wherein the linker comprises a targeting agent to a variety of target cells or tissues e.g. to a biologically relevant environment via conjugation to an appropriate targeting agent. For example in some embodiments the targeting agent is a moiety that has affinity for an inflammatory factor e.g. a cytokine or a cytokine receptor moiety e.g. TNF receptor . In some embodiments the targeting agent is a sugar peptide antibody or antibody fragment hormone hormone receptor or the like.

In some embodiments of the present invention the targeting agent includes but is not limited to an antibody receptor ligand hormone vitamin and antigen however the present invention is not limited by the nature of the targeting agent. In some embodiments the antibody is specific for a disease specific antigen. In some embodiments the disease specific antigen comprises a tumor specific antigen. In some embodiments the receptor ligand includes but is not limited to a ligand for CFTR EGFR estrogen receptor FGR2 folate receptor IL 2 receptor glycoprotein and VEGFR. In some embodiments the receptor ligand is folic acid.

In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are configured such that they are readily cleared from the subject e.g. so that there is little to no detectable toxicity at efficacious doses see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 570 977 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

The present invention also provides a method of treating a medical condition and or a disease e.g. cancer inflammatory disease chronic pain autoimmune disease etc. comprising administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to medical condition and or a disease a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising a dendrimer conjugate e.g. comprising a linker and or trigger and a therapeutic agent described herein.

In some embodiments of the present invention methods and compositions are provided for the treatment of inflammatory diseases e.g. dendrimers conjugated with therapeutic agents configured for treating inflammatory diseases . Inflammatory diseases include but are not limited to arthritis rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis osteoarthritis degenerative arthritis polymyalgia rheumatic ankylosing spondylitis reactive arthritis gout pseudogout inflammatory joint disease systemic lupus erythematosus polymyositis and fibromyalgia. Additional types of arthritis include achilles tendinitis achondroplasia acromegalic arthropathy adhesive capsulitis adult onset Still s disease anserine bursitis avascular necrosis Behcet s syndrome bicipital tendinitis Blount s disease brucellar spondylitis bursitis calcaneal bursitis calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease CPPD crystal deposition disease Caplan s syndrome carpal tunnel syndrome chondrocalcinosis chondromalacia patellae chronic synovitis chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome corticosteroid induced osteoporosis costosternal syndrome CREST syndrome cryoglobulinemia degenerative joint disease dermatomyositis diabetic finger sclerosis diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis DISH discitis discoid lupus erythematosus drug induced lupus Duchenne s muscular dystrophy Dupuytren s contracture Ehlers Danlos syndrome enteropathic arthritis epicondylitis erosive inflammatory osteoarthritis exercise induced compartment syndrome Fabry s disease familial Mediterranean fever Farber s lipogranulomatosis Felty s syndrome Fifth s disease flat feet foreign body synovitis Freiberg s disease fungal arthritis Gaucher s disease giant cell arteritis gonococcal arthritis Goodpasture s syndrome granulomatous arteritis hemarthrosis hemochromatosis Henoch Schonlein purpura Hepatitis B surface antigen disease hip dysplasia Hurler syndrome hypermobility syndrome hypersensitivity vasculitis hypertrophic osteoarthropathy immune complex disease impingement syndrome Jaccoud s arthropathy juvenile ankylosing spondylitis juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki disease Kienbock s disease Legg Calve Perthes disease Lesch Nyhan syndrome linear scleroderma lipoid dermatoarthritis Lofgren s syndrome Lyme disease malignant synovioma Marfan s syndrome medial plica syndrome metastatic carcinomatous arthritis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD mixed cryoglobulinemia mucopolysaccharidosis multicentric reticulohistiocytosis multiple epiphyseal dysplasia mycoplasmal arthritis myofascial pain syndrome neonatal lupus neuropathic arthropathy nodular panniculitis ochronosis olecranon bursitis Osgood Schlatter s disease osteoarthritis osteochondromatosis osteogenesis imperfecta osteomalacia osteomyelitis osteonecrosis osteoporosis overlap syndrome pachydermoperiostosis Paget s disease of bone palindromic rheumatism patellofemoral pain syndrome Pellegrini Stieda syndrome pigmented villonodular synovitis piriformis syndrome plantar fasciitis polyarteritis nodos Polymyalgia rheumatic polymyositis popliteal cysts posterior tibial tendinitis Pott s disease prepatellar bursitis prosthetic joint infection pseudoxanthoma elasticum psoriatic arthritis Raynaud s phenomenon reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome relapsing polychondritis retrocalcaneal bursitis rheumatic fever rheumatoid vasculitis rotator cuff tendinitis sacroiliitis osteomyelitis sarcoidosis saturnine gout Scheuermann s osteochondritis scleroderma septic arthritis seronegative arthritis arthritis shoulder hand syndrome sickle cell arthropathy Sjogren s syndrome slipped capital femoral epiphysis spinal stenosis spondylolysis arthritis Stickler syndrome subacute cutaneous lupus Sweet s syndrome Sydenham s chorea syphilitic arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Takayasu s arteritis tarsal tunnel syndrome tennis elbow Tietse s syndrome transient osteoporosis traumatic arthritis trochanteric bursitis tuberculosis arthritis arthritis of Ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue syndrome UCTS urticarial vasculitis viral arthritis Wegener s granulomatosis Whipple s disease Wilson s disease and yersinial arthritis.

In some embodiments the conjugated dendrimers of the present invention configured for treating autoimmune disorders and or inflammatory disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis are co administered to a subject e.g. a human suffering from an autoimmune disorder and or an inflammatory disorder with a therapeutic agent configured for treating autoimmune disorders and or inflammatory disorders e.g. rheumatoid arthritis . Examples of such agents include but are not limited to disease modifying antirheumatic drugs e.g. leflunomide methotrexate sulfasalazine hydroxychloroquine biologic agents e.g. rituximab infliximab etanercept adalimumab golimumab nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs e.g. ibuprofen celecoxib ketoprofen naproxen piroxicam diclofenac analgesics e.g. acetaminophen tramadol immunomodulators e.g. anakinra abatacept and glucocorticoids e.g. prednisone methylprednisone IL 1 inhibitors and metalloprotease inhibitors.

In some embodiments the medical condition and or disease is pain e.g. chronic pain mild pain recurring pain severe pain etc. . In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates are configured to deliver pain relief agents to a subject. In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates are configured to deliver pain relief agents and pain relief agent antagonists to counter the side effects of pain relief agents. The dendrimer conjugates are not limited to treating a particular type of pain and or pain resulting from a disease. Examples include but are not limited to pain resulting from trauma e.g. trauma experienced on a battlefield trauma experienced in an accident e.g. car accident .

In some embodiments the dendrimer is conjugated with one or more pain relief agents. In some embodiments the dendrimer is co administered with one or more pain relief agents. In some embodiments the pain relief agents include but are not limited to analgesic drugs anxiolytic drugs anesthetic drugs antipsychotic drugs hypnotic drugs sedative drugs and muscle relaxant drugs see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 570 977 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

In some embodiments the disease is cancer. The present invention is not limited by the type of cancer treated using the compositions and methods of the present invention. Indeed a variety of cancer can be treated including but not limited to prostate cancer colon cancer breast cancer lung cancer and epithelial cancer.

In some embodiments the disease is a neoplastic disease selected from but not limited to leukemia acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia myeloblastic promyelocytic myelomonocytic monocytic erythroleukemia chronic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia Polycythemia vera lymphoma Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s disease Multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia Heavy chain disease solid tumors sarcomas and carcinomas fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma pancreatic cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular tumor lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma epithelial carcinoma glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma meningioma melanoma and neuroblastomaretinoblastoma. In some embodiments the disease is an inflammatory disease selected from the group consisting of but not limited to eczema inflammatory bowel disease rheumatoid arthritis asthma psoriasis ischemia reperfusion injury ulcerative colitis and acute respiratory distress syndrome. In some embodiments the disease is a viral disease selected from the group consisting of but not limited to viral disease caused by hepatitis B hepatitis C rotavirus human immunodeficiency virus type I HIV I human immunodeficiency virus type II HIV II human T cell lymphotropic virus type I HTLV I human T cell lymphotropic virus type II HTLV II AIDS DNA viruses such as hepatitis type B and hepatitis type C virus parvoviruses such as adeno associated virus and cytomegalovirus papovaviruses such as papilloma virus polyoma viruses and SV40 adenoviruses herpes viruses such as herpes simplex type I HSV I herpes simplex type II HSV II and Epstein Barr virus poxviruses such as variola smallpox and vaccinia virus and RNA viruses such as human immunodeficiency virus type I HIV I human immunodeficiency virus type II HIV II human T cell lymphotropic virus type I HTLV I human T cell lymphotropic virus type II HTLV II influenza virus measles virus rabies virus Sendai virus picornaviruses such as poliomyelitis virus coxsackieviruses rhinoviruses reoviruses togaviruses such as rubella virus German measles and Semliki forest virus arboviruses and hepatitis type A virus.

The dendrimers of the present invention find use in the detection and treatment of a variety of cancers. Indeed the present invention is not limited by the type of cancer to be treated. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides compositions comprising dendrimer conjugates for the targeting and identification of angiogenesis associated with cancers e.g. carcinomas . For example in some embodiments a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention further comprises a targeting agent e.g. folic acid moiety that associates with high affinity to a targeting agent ligand e.g. receptor on a cancer cell e.g. carcinoma cells and or solid tumor cells . In some embodiments dendrimer conjugate and a targeting agent that target and identify cancer cells and or angiogenesis associated with cancer further comprise a therapeutic agent that inhibits angiogenesis thereby treating the cancer. In some embodiments treatment with dendrimer conjugates and an anti angiogenic agent are used in combination with other dendrimers of the present invention with other chemotherapeutic treatments and or as a treatment following surgical removal of a tumor or cancerous tissue. In some embodiments a targeting moiety e.g. folic acid or other targeting moiety described herein possesses a high affinity for ligands e.g. receptors or other types of proteins or molecules present on cancer cell possessing such ligands thereby permitting the targeting identification and treatment of disease e.g. cancer with little to no toxicity to surrounding healthy cells and tissue.

In some embodiments the dendrimer is conjugated with one or more anti cancer agents. In some embodiments the dendrimer is co administered with one or more anti cancer agents. Examples of anti cancer agents include but are not limited to Acivicin Aclarubicin Acodazole Hydrochloride Acronine Adozelesin Adriamycin Aldesleukin Alitretinoin Allopurinol Sodium Altretamine Ambomycin Ametantrone Acetate Aminoglutethimide Amsacrine Anastrozole Annonaceous Acetogenins Anthramycin Asimicin Asparaginase Asperlin Azacitidine Azetepa Azotomycin Batimastat Benzodepa Bexarotene Bicalutamide Bisantrene Hydrochloride Bisnafide Dimesylate Bizelesin Bleomycin Sulfate Brequinar Sodium Bropirimine Bullatacin Busulfan Cabergoline Cactinomycin Calusterone Caracemide Carbetimer Carboplatin Carmustine Carubicin Hydrochloride Carzelesin Cedefingol Celecoxib Chlorambucil Cirolemycin Cisplatin Cladribine Crisnatol Mesylate Cyclophosphamide Cytarabine Dacarbazine DACA N 2 Dimethyl amino ethyl acridine 4 carboxamide Dactinomycin Daunorubicin Hydrochloride Daunomycin Decitabine Denileukin Diftitox Dexormaplatin Dezaguanine Dezaguanine Mesylate Diaziquone Docetaxel Doxorubicin Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Droloxifene Droloxifene Citrate Dromostanolone Propionate Duazomycin Edatrexate Eflornithine Hydrochloride Elsamitrucin Enloplatin Enpromate Epipropidine Epirubicin Hydrochloride Erbulozole Esorubicin Hydrochloride Estramustine Estramustine Phosphate Sodium Etanidazole Ethiodized Oil I 131 Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate Etoprine Fadrozole Hydrochloride Fazarabine Fenretinide Floxuridine Fludarabine Phosphate Fluorouracil 5 FdUMP Fluorocitabine Fosquidone Fostriecin Sodium FK 317 FK 973 FR 66979 FR 900482 Gemcitabine Geimcitabine Hydrochloride Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin Gold Au 198 Goserelin Acetate Guanacone Hydroxyurea Idarubicin Hydrochloride Ifosfamide Ilmofosine Interferon Alfa 2a Interferon Alfa 2b Interferon Alfa n1 Interferon Alfa n3 Interferon Beta 1a Interferon Gamma 1b Iproplatin Irinotecan Hydrochloride Lanreotide Acetate Letrozole Leuprolide Acetate Liarozole Hydrochloride Lometrexol Sodium Lomustine Losoxantrone Hydrochloride Masoprocol Maytansine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Megestrol Acetate Melengestrol Acetate Melphalan Menogaril Mercaptopurine Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methoxsalen Metoprine Meturedepa Mitindomide Mitocarcin Mitocromin Mitogillin Mitomalcin Mitomycin Mytomycin C Mitosper Mitotane Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride Mycophenolic Acid Nocodazole Nogalamycin Oprelvekin Ormaplatin Oxisuran Paclitaxel Pamidronate Disodium Pegaspargase Peliomycin Pentamustine Peplomycin Sulfate Perfosfamide Pipobroman Piposulfan Piroxantrone Hydrochloride Plicamycin Plomestane Porfimer Sodium Porfiromycin Prednimustine Procarbazine Hydrochloride Puromycin Puromycin Hydrochloride Pyrazofurin Riboprine Rituximab Rogletimide Rolliniastatin Safingol Safingol Hydrochloride Samarium Lexidronam Semustine Simtrazene Sparfosate Sodium Sparsomycin Spirogermanium Hydrochloride Spiromustine Spiroplatin Squamocin Squamotacin Streptonigrin Streptozocin Strontium Chloride Sr 89 Sulofenur Talisomycin Taxane Taxoid Tecogalan Sodium Tegafur Teloxantrone Hydrochloride Temoporfin Teniposide Teroxirone Testolactone Thiamiprine Thioguanine Thiotepa Thymitaq Tiazofurin Tirapazamine Tomudex TOP 53 Topotecan Hydrochloride Toremifene Citrate Trastuzumab Trestolone Acetate Triciribine Phosphate Trimetrexate Trimetrexate Glucuronate Triptorelin Tubulozole Hydrochloride Uracil Mustard Uredepa Valrubicin Vapreotide Verteporfin Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate Vincristine Vincristine Sulfate Vindesine Vindesine Sulfate Vinepidine Sulfate Vinglycinate Sulfate Vinleurosine Sulfate Vinorelbine Tartrate Vinrosidine Sulfate Vinzolidine Sulfate Vorozole Zeniplatin Zinostatin Zorubicin Hydrochloride 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 Deoxyformycin 9 aminocamptothecin raltitrexed N propargyl 5 8 dideazafolic acid 2 chloro 2 arabino fluoro T deoxyadenosine 2 chloro 2 deoxyadenosine anisomycin trichostatin A hPRL G129R CEP 751 linomide sulfur mustard nitrogen mustard mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide melphalan chlorambucil ifosfamide busulfan N methyl N nitrosourea MNU N N Bis 2 chloroethyl N nitrosourea BCNU N 2 chloroethyl N cyclohex yl N nitrosourea CCNU N 2 chloroethyl N trans 4 methylcyclohexyl N nitrosourea MeCCNU N 2 chloroethyl N diethyl ethylphosphonate N nit rosourea fotemustine streptozotocin diacarbazine DTIC mitozolomide temozolomide thiotepa mitomycin C AZQ adozelesin Cisplatin Carboplatin Ormaplatin Oxaliplatin C1 973 DWA 2114R JM216 JM335 Bis platinum tomudex azacitidine cytarabine gemcitabine 6 Mercaptopurine 6 Thioguanine Hypoxanthine teniposide 9 amino camptothecin Topotecan CPT 11 Doxorubicin Daunomycin Epirubicin darubicin mitoxantrone losoxantrone Dactinomycin Actinomycin D amsacrine pyrazoloacridine all trans retinol 14 hydroxy retro retinol all trans retinoic acid N 4 Hydroxyphenyl retinamide 13 cis retinoic acid 3 Methyl TTNEB 9 cis retinoic acid fludarabine 2 F ara AMP and 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 Cda . Other anti cancer agents include but are not limited to Antiproliferative agents e.g. Piritrexim Isothionate Antiprostatic hypertrophy agent e.g. Sitogluside Benign prostatic hyperplasia therapy agents e.g. Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Prostate growth inhibitor agents e.g. Pentomone and Radioactive agents Fibrinogen I 125 Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Fluorodopa F 18 Insulin I 125 Insulin I 131 Iobenguane I 123 Iodipamide Sodium I 131 Iodoantipyrine I 131 Iodocholesterol I 131 Iodohippurate Sodium I 123 Iodohippurate Sodium I 125 Iodohippurate Sodium I 131 Iodopyracet I 125 Iodopyracet I 131 Iofetamine Hydrochloride I 123 Iomethin I 125 Iomethin I 131 Iothalamate Sodium I 125 Iothalamate Sodium I 131 Iotyrosine I 131 Liothyronine I 125 Liothyronine I 131 Merisoprol Acetate Hg 197 Merisoprol Acetate Hg 203 Merisoprol Hg 197 Selenomethionine Se 75 Technetium Tc 99m Antimony Trisulfide Colloid Technetium Tc 99m Bicisate Technetium Tc 99m Disofenin Technetium Tc 99m Etidronate Technetium Tc 99m Exametazime Technetium Tc 99m Furifosmin Technetium Tc 99m Gluceptate Technetium Tc 99m Lidofenin Technetium Tc 99m Mebrofenin Technetium Tc 99m Medronate Technetium Tc 99m Medronate Disodium Technetium Tc 99m Mertiatide Technetium Tc 99m Oxidronate Technetium Tc 99m Pentetate Technetium Tc 99m Pentetate Calcium Trisodium Technetium Tc 99m Sestamibi Technetium Tc 99m Siboroxime Technetium Tc 99m Succimer Technetium Tc 99m sulfur Colloid Technetium Tc 99m Teboroxime Technetium Tc 99m Tetrofosmin Technetium Tc 99m Tiatide Thyroxine I 125 Thyroxine I 131 Tolpovidone I 131 Triolein I 125 and Triolein I 131.

Additional anti cancer agents include but are not limited to anti cancer Supplementary Potentiating Agents Tricyclic anti depressant drugs e.g. imipramine desipramine amitryptyline clomipramine trimipramine doxepin nortriptyline protriptyline amoxapine and maprotiline non tricyclic anti depressant drugs e.g. sertraline trazodone and citalopram Ca antagonists e.g. verapamil nifedipine nitrendipine and caroverine Calmodulin inhibitors e.g. prenylamine trifluoroperazine and clomipramine Amphotericin B Triparanol analogues e.g. tamoxifen antiarrhythmic drugs e.g. quinidine antihypertensive drugs e.g. reserpine Thiol depleters e.g. buthionine and sulfoximine and Multiple Drug Resistance reducing agents such as Cremaphor EL. Still other anticancer agents include but are not limited to annonaceous acetogenins asimicin rolliniastatin guanacone squamocin bullatacin squamotacin taxanes paclitaxel gemcitabine methotrexate FR 900482 FK 973 FR 66979 FK 317 5 FU FUDR FdUMP Hydroxyurea Docetaxel discodermolide epothilones vincristine vinblastine vinorelbine meta pac irinotecan SN 38 10 OH campto topotecan etoposide adriamycin flavopiridol Cis Pt carbo Pt bleomycin mitomycin C mithramycin capecitabine cytarabine 2 C1 2 deoxyadenosine Fludarabine PO mitoxantrone mitozolomide Pentostatin and Tomudex. One particularly preferred class of anticancer agents are taxanes e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel . Another important category of anticancer agent is annonaceous acetogenin.

In some embodiments the present invention also provides a kit comprising a composition comprising dendrimer e.g. a Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugate comprising a linker and or trigger and a therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the kit comprises a fluorescent agent or bioluminescent agent.

Dendrimers may be characterized by a number of techniques including but not limited to electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy high performance liquid chromatography size exclusion chromatography with multi angle laser light scattering ultraviolet spectrophotometry capillary electrophoresis and gel electrophoresis. These tests assure the uniformity of the polymer population and are important for monitoring quality control of dendrimer manufacture for applications and in vivo usage.

Dendrimer antibody conjugates for use in in vitro diagnostic applications have previously been demonstrated See e.g. Singh et al. Clin. Chem. 40 1845 1994 for the production of dendrimer chelant antibody constructs and for the development of boronated dendrimer antibody conjugates for neutron capture therapy each of these latter compounds may be used as a cancer therapeutic See e.g. Wu et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 4 449 1994 Wiener et al. Magn. Reson. Med. 31 1 1994 Barth et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 5 58 1994 and Barth et al. .

Some of these conjugates have also been employed in the magnetic resonance imaging of tumors See e.g. Wu et al. 1994 and Wiener et al. 1994 supra . Results from this work have documented that when administered in vivo antibodies can direct dendrimer associated therapeutic agents to antigen bearing tumors. Dendrimers also have been shown to specifically enter cells and carry either chemotherapeutic agents or genetic therapeutics. In particular studies show that cisplatin encapsulated in dendrimer polymers has increased efficacy and is less toxic than cisplatin delivered by other means See e.g. Duncan and Malik Control Rel. Bioact. Mater. 23 105 1996 .

Dendrimers have also been conjugated to fluorochromes or molecular beacons and shown to enter cells. They can then be detected within the cell in a manner compatible with sensing apparatus for evaluation of physiologic changes within cells See e.g. Baker et al. Anal. Chem. 69 990 1997 . Finally dendrimers have been constructed as differentiated block copolymers where the outer portions of the molecule may be digested with either enzyme or light induced catalysis See e.g. Urdea and Horn Science 261 534 1993 . This allows the controlled degradation of the polymer to release therapeutics at the disease site and provides a mechanism for an external trigger to release the therapeutic agents.

In some embodiments dendrimer conjugates of the present invention contain one or more signature identifying agents that are activated by or are able to interact with a signature component signature . In preferred embodiments the signature identifying agent is an antibody preferably a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds the signature e.g. cell surface molecule specific to a cell to be targeted .

In some embodiments of the present invention tumor cells are identified. Tumor cells have a wide variety of signatures including the defined expression of cancer specific antigens such as Muc1 HER 2 and mutated p53 in breast cancer. These act as specific signatures for the cancer being present in 30 HER 2 to 70 mutated p53 of breast cancers. In some embodiments a dendrimer of the present invention comprises a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to a mutated version of p53 that is present in breast cancer. In some embodiments a dendrimer of the present invention comprises an antibody e.g. monoclonal antibody with high affinity for a signature including but not limited to Muc1 and HER 2.

In some embodiments of the present invention cancer cells expressing susceptibility genes are identified. For example in some embodiments there are two breast cancer susceptibility genes that are used as specific signatures for breast cancer BRCA1 on chromosome 17 and BRCA2 on chromosome 13. When an individual carries a mutation in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 they are at an increased risk of being diagnosed with breast or ovarian cancer at some point in their lives. These genes participate in repairing radiation induced breaks in double stranded DNA. It is thought that mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 might disable this mechanism leading to more errors in DNA replication and ultimately to cancerous growth.

In addition the expression of a number of different cell surface receptors find use as targets for the binding and uptake of a dendrimer conjugate. Such receptors include but are not limited to EGF receptor folate receptor FGR receptor 2 and the like.

In some embodiments of the present invention changes in gene expression associated with chromosomal abborations are the signature component. For example Burkitt lymphoma results from chromosome translocations that involve the Myc gene. A chromosome translocation means that a chromosome is broken which allows it to associate with parts of other chromosomes. The classic chromosome translocation in Burkitt lymphoma involves chromosome 8 the site of the Myc gene. This changes the pattern of Myc expression thereby disrupting its usual function in controlling cell growth and proliferation.

From the discussion above it is clear that there are many different tumor signatures that find use with the present invention some of which are specific to a particular type of cancer and others which are promiscuous in their origin. The present invention is not limited to any particular tumor signature or any other disease specific signature. For example tumor suppressors that find use as signatures in the present invention include but are not limited to p53 Muc1 CEA p16 p21 p27 CCAM RB APC DCC NF 1 NF 2 WT 1 MEN 1 MEN II p73 VHL FCC and MCC.

In some embodiments of the present invention a dendrimer conjugate comprises at least one imaging agent that can be readily imaged. The present invention is not limited by the nature of the imaging component used. In some embodiments of the present invention imaging modules comprise surface modifications of quantum dots See e.g. Chan and Nie Science 281 2016 1998 such as zinc sulfide capped cadmium selenide coupled to biomolecules Sooklal Adv. Mater. 10 1083 1998 .

In some embodiments the imaging module comprises dendrimers produced according to the nanocomposite concept See e.g. Balogh et al. Proc. of ACS PMSE 77 118 1997 and Balogh and Tomalia J. Am. Che. Soc. 120 7355 1998 . In these embodiments dendrimers are produced by reactive encapsulation where a reactant is preorganized by the dendrimer template and is then subsequently immobilized in on the polymer molecule by a second reactant. Size shape size distribution and surface functionality of these nanoparticles are determined and controlled by the dendritic macromolecules. These materials have the solubility and compatibility of the host and have the optical or physiological properties of the guest molecule i.e. the molecule that permits imaging . While the dendrimer host may vary according to the medium it is possible to load the dendrimer hosts with different compounds and at various guest concentration levels. Complexes and composites may involve the use of a variety of metals or other inorganic materials. The high electron density of these materials considerably simplifies the imaging by electron microscopy and related scattering techniques. In addition properties of inorganic atoms introduce new and measurable properties for imaging in either the presence or absence of interfering biological materials. In some embodiments of the present invention encapsulation of gold silver cobalt iron atoms molecules and or organic dye molecules such as fluorescein are encapsulated into dendrimers for use as nanoscopic composite labels tracers although any material that facilitates imaging or detection may be employed. In a preferred embodiment the imaging agent is fluorescein isothiocyanate

In some embodiments of the present invention imaging is based on the passive or active observation of local differences in density of selected physical properties of the investigated complex matter. These differences may be due to a different shape e.g. mass density detected by atomic force microscopy altered composition e.g. radiopaques detected by X ray distinct light emission e.g. fluorochromes detected by spectrophotometry different diffraction e.g. electron beam detected by TEM contrasted absorption e.g. light detected by optical methods or special radiation emission e.g. isotope methods etc. Thus quality and sensitivity of imaging depend on the property observed and on the technique used. The imaging techniques for cancerous cells have to provide sufficient levels of sensitivity to is observe small local concentrations of selected cells. The earliest identification of cancer signatures requires high selectivity i.e. highly specific recognition provided by appropriate targeting and the highest possible sensitivity.

In some embodiments once a targeted dendrimer conjugate has attached to or been internalized into a target cell e.g. tumor cell and or inflammatory cell one or more modules on the device serve to image its location. Dendrimers have already been employed as biomedical imaging agents perhaps most notably for magnetic resonance imaging MRI contrast enhancement agents See e.g. Wiener et al. Mag. Reson. Med. 31 1 1994 an example using PAMAM dendrimers . These agents are typically constructed by conjugating chelated paramagnetic ions such as Gd III diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid Gd III DTPA to water soluble dendrimers. Other paramagnetic ions that may be useful in this context include but are not limited to gadolinium manganese copper chromium iron cobalt erbium nickel europium technetium indium samarium dysprosium ruthenium ytterbium yttrium and holmium ions and combinations thereof. In some embodiments of the present invention a dendrimer conjugate is also conjugated to a targeting group such as epidermal growth factor EGF to make the conjugate specifically bind to the desired cell type e.g. in the case of EGF EGFR expressing tumor cells . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention DTPA is attached to dendrimers via the isothiocyanate of DTPA as described by Wiener Wiener et al. Mag. Reson. Med. 31 1 1994 .

Dendrimeric MRI agents are particularly effective due to the polyvalency size and architecture of dendrimers which results in molecules with large proton relaxation enhancements high molecular relaxivity and a high effective concentration of paramagnetic ions at the target site. Dendrimeric gadolinium contrast agents have even been used to differentiate between benign and malignant breast tumors using dynamic MRI based on how the vasculature for the latter type of tumor images more densely Adam et al. Ivest. Rad. 31 26 1996 . Thus MRI provides a particularly useful imaging system of the present invention.

Static structural microscopic imaging of cancerous cells and tissues has traditionally been performed outside of the patient. Classical histology of tissue biopsies provides a fine illustrative example and has proven a powerful adjunct to cancer diagnosis and treatment. After removal a specimen is sliced thin e.g. less than 40 microns stained fixed and examined by a pathologist. If images are obtained they are most often 2 D transmission bright field projection images. Specialized dyes are employed to provide selective contrast which is almost absent from the unstained tissue and to also provide for the identification of aberrant cellular constituents. Quantifying sub cellular structural features by using computer assisted analysis such as in nuclear ploidy determination is often confounded by the loss of histologic context owing to the thinness of the specimen and the overall lack of 3 D information. Despite the limitations of the static imaging approach it has been invaluable to allow for the identification of neoplasia in biopsied tissue. Furthermore its use is often the crucial factor in the decision to perform invasive and risky combinations of chemotherapy surgical procedures and radiation treatments which are often accompanied by severe collateral tissue damage complications and even patient death.

A dendrimer conjugate of the present invention allows functional microscopic imaging of tumors and provide improved methods for imaging. The methods find use in vivo in vitro and ex vivo. For example in one embodiment of the present invention dendrimer conjugates of the present invention are designed to emit light or other detectable signals upon exposure to light. Although the labeled dendrimers may be physically smaller than the optical resolution limit of the microscopy technique they become self luminous objects when excited and are readily observable and measurable using optical techniques. In some embodiments of the present invention sensing fluorescent biosensors in a microscope involves the use of tunable excitation and emission filters and multiwavelength sources See e.g. Farkas et al. SPEI 2678 200 1997 . In embodiments where the imaging agents are present in deeper tissue longer wavelengths in the Near infrared NMR are used See e.g. Lester et al. Cell Mol. Biol. 44 29 1998 . Dendrimeric biosensing in the Near IR has been demonstrated with dendrimeric biosensing antenna like architectures See e.g. Shortreed et al. J. Phys. Chem. 101 6318 1997 . Biosensors that find use with the present invention include but are not limited to fluorescent dyes and molecular beacons.

In some embodiments of the present invention in vivo imaging is accomplished using functional imaging techniques. Functional imaging is a complementary and potentially more powerful techniques as compared to static structural imaging. Functional imaging is best known for its application at the macroscopic scale with examples including functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging fMRI and Positron Emission Tomography PET . However functional microscopic imaging may also be conducted and find use in in vivo and ex vivo analysis of living tissue. Functional microscopic imaging is an efficient combination of 3 D imaging 3 D spatial multispectral volumetric assignment and temporal sampling in short a type of 3 D spectral microscopic movie loop. Interestingly cells and tissues autofluoresce. When excited by several wavelengths providing much of the basic 3 D structure needed to characterize several cellular components e.g. the nucleus without specific labeling. Oblique light illumination is also useful to collect structural information and is used routinely. As opposed to structural spectral microimaging functional spectral microimaging may be used with biosensors which act to localize physiologic signals within the cell or tissue. For example in some embodiments of the present invention biosensor comprising dendrimers of the present invention are used to image upregulated receptor families such as the folate or EGF classes. In such embodiments functional biosensing therefore involves the detection of physiological abnormalities relevant to carcinogenesis or malignancy even at early stages. A number of physiological conditions may be imaged using the compositions and methods of the present invention including but not limited to detection of nanoscopic dendrimeric biosensors for pH oxygen concentration Ca concentration and other physiologically relevant analytes.

In some embodiments the present invention provides dendrimer conjugates e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimer conjugates having a biological monitoring component. The biological monitoring or sensing component of a dendrimer conjugate of the present invention is one that can monitor the particular response in a target cell e.g. tumor cell induced by an agent e.g. a therapeutic agent provided by the therapeutic component of the dendrimer conjugate . While the present invention is not limited to any particular monitoring system the invention is illustrated by methods and compositions for monitoring cancer treatments. In preferred embodiments of the present invention the agent induces apoptosis in cells and monitoring involves the detection of apoptosis. In particular embodiments the monitoring component is an agent that fluoresces at a particular wavelength when apoptosis occurs. For example in a preferred embodiment caspase activity activates green fluorescence in the monitoring component. Apoptotic cancer cells which have turned red as a result of being targeted by a particular signature with a red label turn orange while residual cancer cells remain red. Normal cells induced to undergo apoptosis e.g. through collateral damage if present will fluoresce green.

In these embodiments fluorescent groups such as fluorescein are employed in the monitoring component. Fluorescein is easily attached to the dendrimer surface via the isothiocyanate derivatives available from MOLECULAR PROBES Inc. This allows the dendrimer conjugate to be imaged with the cells via confocal microscopy. Sensing of the effectiveness of the dendrimer conjugates is preferably achieved by using fluorogenic peptide enzyme substrates. For example apoptosis caused by the therapeutic agents results in the production of the peptidase caspase 1 ICE . CALBIOCHEM sells a number of peptide substrates for this enzyme that release a fluorescent moiety. A particularly useful peptide for use in the present invention is 

In some embodiments of the present invention the lysine end of the peptide is linked to the dendrimer conjugate so that the MCA group is released into the cytosol when it is cleaved. The lysine end of the peptide is a useful synthetic handle for conjugation because for example it can react with the activated ester group of a bifunctional linker such as Mal PEG OSu. Thus the appearance of green fluorescence in the target cells produced using these methods provides a clear indication that apoptosis has begun if the cell already has a red color from the presence of aggregated quantum dots the cell turns orange from the combined colors .

Additional fluorescent dyes that find use with the present invention include but are not limited to acridine orange reported as sensitive to DNA changes in apoptotic cells Abrams et al. Development 117 29 1993 and cis parinaric acid sensitive to the lipid peroxidation that accompanies apoptosis Hockenbery et al. Cell 75 241 1993 . It should be noted that the peptide and the fluorescent dyes are merely exemplary. It is contemplated that any peptide that effectively acts as a substrate for a caspase produced as a result of apoptosis finds use with the present invention.

In some embodiments conjugation between a dendrimer e.g. terminal arm of a dendrimer and a functional group or between functional groups is accomplished through use of a 1 3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction click chemistry . Click chemistry involves for example the coupling of two different moieties e.g. a therapeutic agent and a functional group e.g. a first functional group and a second functional group via a 1 3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction between an alkyne moiety or equivalent thereof on the surface of the first moeity and an azide moiety e.g. present on a triazine composition or equivalent thereof or any active end group such as for example a primary amine end group a hydroxyl end group a carboxylic acid end group a thiol end group etc. on the second moiety see e.g. U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 140 480 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Click chemistry is an attractive coupling method because for example it can be performed with a wide variety of solvent conditions including aqueous environments. For example the stable triazole ring that results from coupling the alkyne with the azide is frequently achieved at quantitative yields and is considered to be biologically inert see e.g. Rostovtsev V. V. et al. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2002 41 14 2596 Wu P. et al. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2004 43 30 3928 3932 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

In some embodiments conjugation between a dendrimer e.g. a terminal arm of a dendrimer and a functional ligand is accomplished during a one pot reaction. The term one pot synthesis reaction or equivalents thereof e.g. 1 pot one pot etc. refers to a chemical synthesis method in which all reactants are present in a single vessel. Reactants may be added simultaneously or sequentially with no limitation as to the duration of time elapsing between introduction of sequentially added reactants. In some embodiments a one pot reaction occurs wherein a hydroxyl terminated dendrimer e.g. HO PAMAM dendrimer is reacted with one or more functional ligands e.g. a therapeutic agent a pro drug a trigger agent a targeting agent an imaging agent in one vessel such conjugation being facilitated by ester coupling agents e.g. 2 chloro 1 methylpyridinium iodide and 4 dimethylamino pyridine see e.g. U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 226 993 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

Functionalized nanoparticles e.g. dendrimers often contain moieties including but not limited to ligands functional ligands conjugates therapeutic agents targeting agents imaging agents fluorophores that are conjugated to the periphery. Such moieties may for example be conjugated to one or more dendrimer branch termini. Classical multi step conjugation strategies used during the synthesis of functionalized dendrimers generate a stochastic distribution of products with differing numbers of ligands attached per dendrimer molecule thereby creating a population of dendrimers with a wide distribution in the numbers of ligands attached. The low structural uniformity of such dendrimer populations negatively affects properties such as therapeutic potency pharmacokinetics or effectiveness for multivalent targeting. Difficulties in quantifying and resolving such populations to yield samples with sufficient structural uniformity can pose challenges. However in some embodiments use of separation methods e.g. reverse phase chromatography customized for optimal separation of dendrimer populations in conjunction with peak fitting analysis methods allows isolation and identification of subpopulations of functionalized dendrimers with high structural uniformity see e.g. U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 61 237 172 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . In certain embodiments such methods and systems provide a dendrimer product made by the process comprising a conjugation of at least one ligand type to a dendrimer to yield a population of ligand conjugated dendrimers b separation of the population of ligand conjugated dendrimers with reverse phase HPLC to result in subpopulations of ligand conjugated dendrimers indicated by a chromatographic trace and c application of peak fitting analysis to the chromatographic trace to identify subpopulations of ligand conjugated dendrimers wherein the structural uniformity of ligand conjugates per molecule of dendrimer within said subpopulation is e.g. approximately 80 or more.

As described above another component of the present invention is that the dendrimer conjugate compositions are able to specifically target a particular tissue region and or cell type e.g. CNS . In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugate targets the CNS e.g. via transferrin neurons within the CNS e.g. via Tet1 the peripheral nervous system muscles and or nerves.

In some embodiments of the present invention targeting groups are conjugated to dendrimers and or linkers conjugated to the dendrimers with either short e.g. direct coupling medium e.g. using small molecule bifunctional linkers such as SPDP sold by PIERCE CHEMICAL Company or long e.g. PEG bifunctional linkers sold by NEKTAR Inc. linkages. Since dendrimers have surfaces with a large number of functional groups more than one targeting group and or linker may be attached to each dendrimer. As a result multiple binding events may occur between the dendrimer conjugate and the target cell. In these embodiments the dendrimer conjugates have a very high affinity for their target cells via this cooperative binding or polyvalent interaction effect.

For steric reasons in some embodiments the smaller the ligands the more can be attached to the surface of a dendrimer and or linkers attached thereto. Recently Wiener reported that dendrimers with attached folic acid would specifically accumulate on the surface and within tumor cells expressing the high affinity folate receptor hFR See e.g. Wiener et al. Invest. Radiol. 32 748 1997 . The hFR receptor is expressed or upregulated on epithelial tumors including breast cancers. Control cells lacking hFR showed no significant accumulation of folate derivatized dendrimers. Folic acid can be attached to full generation PAMAM dendrimers via a carbodiimide coupling reaction. Folic acid is a good targeting candidate for the dendrimers with its small size and a simple conjugation procedure.

Antibodies can be generated to allow for the targeting of antigens or immunogens e.g. tumor tissue or pathogen specific antigens on various biological targets e.g. pathogens tumor cells normal tissue . Such antibodies include but are not limited to polyclonal monoclonal chimeric single chain Fab fragments and an Fab expression library.

In some embodiments the antibodies recognize tumor specific epitopes e.g. TAG 72 See e.g. Kjeldsen et al. Cancer Res. 48 2214 2220 1988 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 892 020 5 892 019 and 5 512 443 human carcinoma antigen See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 693 763 5 545 530 and 5 808 005 TP1 and TP3 antigens from osteocarcinoma cells See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 855 866 Thomsen Friedenreich TF antigen from adenocarcinoma cells See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 110 911 KC 4 antigen from human prostrate adenocarcinoma See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 708 930 and 4 743 543 a human colorectal cancer antigen See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 921 789 CA125 antigen from cystadenocarcinoma See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 921 790 DF3 antigen from human breast carcinoma See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 963 484 and 5 053 489 a human breast tumor antigen See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 939 240 p97 antigen of human melanoma See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 918 164 carcinoma or orosomucoid related antigen CORA See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 914 021 a human pulmonary carcinoma antigen that reacts with human squamous cell lung carcinoma but not with human small cell lung carcinoma See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 892 935 T and Tn haptens in glycoproteins of human breast carcinoma See e.g. Springer et al. Carbohydr. Res. 178 271 292 1988 MSA breast carcinoma glycoprotein termed See e.g. Tjandra et al. Br. J. Surg. 75 811 817 1988 MFGM breast carcinoma antigen See e.g. Ishida et al. Tumor Biol. 10 12 22 1989 DU PAN 2 pancreatic carcinoma antigen See e.g. Lan et al. Cancer Res. 45 305 310 1985 CA125 ovarian carcinoma antigen See e.g. Hanisch et al. Carbohydr. Res. 178 29 47 1988 YH206 lung carcinoma antigen See e.g. Hinoda et al. 1988 Cancer J. 42 653 658 1988 . Each of the foregoing references are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

Various procedures known in the art are used for the production of polyclonal antibodies. For the production of antibody various host animals can be immunized by injection with the peptide corresponding to the desired epitope including but not limited to rabbits mice rats sheep goats etc. In a preferred embodiment the peptide is conjugated to an immunogenic carrier e.g. diphtheria toxoid bovine serum albumin BSA or keyhole limpet hemocyanin KLH . Various adjuvants are used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species including but not limited to Freund s complete and incomplete mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions peptides oil emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins dinitrophenol and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG Bacille Calmette Guerin and

For preparation of monoclonal antibodies any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture may be used See e.g. Harlow and Lane Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. . These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein Kohler and Milstein Nature 256 495 497 1975 as well as the trioma technique the human B cell hybridoma technique See e.g. Kozbor et al. Immunol. Today 4 72 1983 and the EBV hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies Cole et al. in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 1985 .

In an additional embodiment of the invention monoclonal antibodies can be produced in germ free animals utilizing recent technology See e.g. PCT US90 02545 . According to the invention human antibodies may be used and can be obtained by using human hybridomas Cote et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80 2026 2030 1983 or by transforming human B cells with EBV virus in vitro Cole et al. in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss pp. 77 96 1985 .

According to the invention techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 herein incorporated by reference can be adapted to produce specific single chain antibodies. An additional embodiment of the invention utilizes the techniques described for the construction of Fab expression libraries Huse et al. Science 246 1275 1281 1989 to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with the desired specificity.

Antibody fragments that contain the idiotype antigen binding region of the antibody molecule can be generated by known techniques. For example such fragments include but are not limited to the F ab 2 fragment that can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody molecule the Fab fragments that can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab 2 fragment and the Fab fragments that can be generated by treating the antibody molecule with papain and a reducing agent.

In the production of antibodies screening for the desired antibody can be accomplished by techniques known in the art e.g. radioimmunoassay ELISA enzyme linked immunosorbant assay sandwich immunoassays immunoradiometric assays gel diffusion precipitin reactions immunodiffusion assays in situ immunoassays using colloidal gold enzyme or radioisotope labels for example Western Blots precipitation reactions agglutination assays e.g. gel agglutination assays hemagglutination assays etc. complement fixation assays immunofluorescence assays protein A assays and immunoelectrophoresis assays etc. .

The dendrimer conjugates of the present invention have many advantages over liposomes such as their greater stability better control of their size and polydispersity and generally lower toxicity and immunogenicity See e.g. Duncan et al Polymer Preprints 39 180 1998 . Thus in some embodiments of the present invention anti HER2 antibody fragments as well as other targeting antibodies are conjugated to dendrimers as targeting agents for the nanodevices of the present invention.

The bifunctional linkers SPDP and SMCC and the longer Mal PEG OSu linkers are particularly useful for antibody dendrimer conjugation. In addition many tumor cells contain surface lectins that bind to oligosaccharides with specific recognition arising chiefly from the terminal carbohydrate residues of the latter See e.g. Sharon and Lis Science 246 227 1989 . Attaching appropriate monosaccharides to nonglycosylated proteins such as BSA provides a conjugate that binds to tumor lectin much more tightly than the free monosaccharide See e.g. Monsigny et al. Biochemie 70 1633 1988 .

Mannosylated PAMAM dendrimers bind mannoside binding lectin up to 400 more avidly than monomeric mannosides See e.g. Page and Roy Bioconjugate Chem. 8 714 1997 . Sialylated dendrimers and other dendritic polymers bind to and inhibit a variety of sialate binding viruses both in vitro and in vivo. By conjugating multiple monosaccharide residues e.g. galactoside for galactose binding cells to dendrimers polyvalent conjugates are created with a high affinity for the corresponding type of tumor cell. The attachment reaction are easily carried out via reaction of the terminal amines with commercially available galactosidyl phenylisothiocyanate. The small size of the carbohydrates allows a high concentration to be present on the dendrimer surface.

Related to the targeting approaches described above is the pretargeting approach See e.g. Goodwin and Meares Cancer suppl. 80 2675 1997 . An example of this strategy involves initial treatment of a subject with conjugates of tumor specific monoclonal antibodies and streptavidin. Remaining soluble conjugate is removed from the bloodstream with an appropriate biotinylated clearing agent. When the tumor localized conjugate is all that remains a radiolabeled biotinylated agent is introduced which in turn localizes at the tumor sites by the strong and specific biotin streptavidin interaction. Thus the radioactive dose is maximized in dose proximity to the cancer cells and minimized in the rest of the body where it can harm healthy cells.

It has been shown that if streptavidin molecules bound to a polystyrene well are first treated with a biotinylated dendrimer and then radiolabeled streptavidinis introduced up to four of the labeled streptavidin molecules are bound per polystyrene bound streptavidin See e.g. Wilbur et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 9 813 1998 . Thus biotinylated dendrimers may be used in the methods of the present invention acting as a polyvalent receptor for the radiolabel in vivo with a resulting amplification of the radioactive dosage per bound antibody conjugate. In the preferred embodiments of the present invention one or more multiply biotinylated module s on the clustered dendrimer presents a polyvalent target for radiolabeled or boronated See e.g. Barth et al. Cancer Investigation 14 534 1996 avidin or streptavidin again resulting in an amplified dose of radiation for the tumor cells.

Dendrimers may also be used as clearing agents by for example partially biotinylating a dendrimer that has a polyvalent galactose or mannose surface. The conjugate clearing agent complex would then have a very strong affinity for the corresponding hepatocyte receptors.

In other embodiments of the present invention an enhanced permeability and retention EPR method is used in targeting. The enhanced permeability and retention EPR effect is a more passive way of targeting tumors See e.g. Duncan and Sat Ann. Oncol. 9 39 1998 . The EPR effect is the selective concentration of macromolecules and small particles in the tumor microenvironment caused by the hyperpermeable vasculature and poor lymphatic drainage of tumors. The dendrimer compositions of the present invention provide ideal polymers for this application in that they are relatively rigid of narrow polydispersity of controlled size and surface chemistry and have interior cargo space that can carry and then release antitumor drugs. In fact PAMAM dendrimer platinates have been shown to accumulate in solid tumors Pt levels about 50 times higher than those obtained with cisplatin and have in vivo activity in solid tumor models for which cisplatin has no effect See e.g. Malik et al. Proc. Int l. Symp. Control. Rel. Bioact. Mater. 24 107 1997 and Duncan et al. Polymer Preprints 39 180 1998 .

The dendrimers e.g. Baker Huang PAMAM dendrimers may be characterized for size and uniformity by any suitable analytical techniques. These include but are not limited to atomic force microscopy AFM electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy MALDI TOF mass spectroscopy C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy high performance liquid chromatography HPLC size exclusion chromatography SEC equipped with multi angle laser light scattering dual UV and refractive index detectors capillary electrophoresis and get electrophoresis. These analytical methods assure the uniformity of the dendrimer population and are important in the quality control of dendrimer production for eventual use in in vivo applications. Most importantly extensive work has been performed with dendrimers showing no evidence of toxicity when administered intravenously Roberts et al. J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 30 53 1996 and Boume et al. J. Magnetic Resonance Imaging 6 305 1996 .

In some embodiments of the present invention the dendrimer conjugates comprise transgenes for delivery and expression to a target cell or tissue in vitro ex vivo or in vivo. In such embodiments rather than containing the actual protein the dendrimer complex comprises an expression vector construct containing for example a heterologous DNA encoding a gene of interest and the various regulatory elements that facilitate the production of the particular protein of interest in the target cells.

In some embodiments the gene is a therapeutic gene that is used for example to treat cancer to replace a defective gene or a marker or reporter gene that is used for selection or monitoring purposes. In the context of a gene therapy vector the gene may be a heterologous piece of DNA. The heterologous DNA may be derived from more than one source i.e. a multigene construct or a fusion protein . Further the heterologous DNA may include a regulatory sequence derived from one source and the gene derived from a different source.

Tissue specific promoters may be used to effect transcription in specific tissues or cells so as to reduce potential toxicity or undesirable effects to non targeted tissues. For example promoters such as the PSA probasin prostatic acid phosphatase or prostate specific glandular kallikrein hK2 may be used to target gene expression in the prostate. Similarly promoters may be used to target gene expression in other tissues e.g. insulin elastin amylase pdr 1 pdx 1 and glucokinase promoters target to the pancreas albumin PEPCK HBV enhancer alpha fetoproteinapolipoprotein C alpha 1 antitrypsin vitellogenin NF AB and transthyretin promoters target to the liver myosin H chain muscle creatine kinase dystrophin calpain p94 skeletal alpha actin fast troponin 1 promoters target to skeletal muscle keratin promoters target the skin sm22 alpha SM actin promoters target smooth muscle CFTR human cytokeratin 18 K18 pulmonary surfactant proteins A B and Q CC 10 P1 promoters target lung tissue endothelin 1 E selectin von Willebrand factor KDR flk 1 target the endothelium tyrosinase targets melanocytes .

The nucleic acid may be either cDNA or genomic DNA. The nucleic acid can encode any suitable therapeutic protein. Preferably the nucleic acid encodes a tumor suppressor cytokine receptor inducer of apoptosis or differentiating agent. The nucleic acid may be an antisense nucleic acid. In such embodiments the antisense nucleic acid may be incorporated into the nanodevice of the present invention outside of the context of an expression vector.

In preferred embodiments the nucleic acid encodes a tumor suppressor cytokines receptors or inducers of apoptosis. Suitable tumor suppressors include BRCA1 BRCA2 C CAM p16 p211 p53 p73 or Rb. Suitable cytokines include GMCSF IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 IL 13 IL 14 IL 15 interferon interferon or TNF. Suitable receptors include CFTR EGFR estrogen receptor IL 2 receptor or VEGFR. Suitable inducers of apoptosis include AdE1B Bad Bak Bax Bid Bik Bim Harakiri or ICE CED3 protease.

In some embodiments more than one administration of the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention or the other agent are utilized. Various combinations may be employed where the dendrimer is A e.g. comprising a therapeutic agent and the other agent is B e.g. comprising a therapeutic agent antagonist as exemplified below 

Other factors that may be used in combination therapy with the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention include but are not limited to factors that cause DNA damage such as gamma rays X rays and or the directed delivery of radioisotopes to tumor cells. Other forms of DNA damaging factors are also contemplated such as microwaves and UV irradiation. Dosage ranges for X rays range from daily doses of 50 to 200 roentgens for prolonged periods of time 3 to 4 weeks to single doses of 2000 to 6000 roentgens. Dosage ranges for radioisotopes vary widely and depend on the half life of the isotope the strength and type of radiation emitted and the uptake by the neoplastic cells. The skilled artisan is directed to Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 15th Edition chapter 33 in particular pages 624 652. Some variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being treated. The person responsible for administration will in any event determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. Moreover for human administration preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.

In preferred embodiments of the present invention the regional delivery of the dendrimer conjugates to patients with cancers is utilized to maximize the therapeutic effectiveness of the delivered agent. Similarly the chemo or radiotherapy may be directed to particular affected region of the subjects body. Alternatively systemic delivery of the immunotherapeutic composition and or the agent may be appropriate in certain circumstances for example where extensive metastasis has occurred.

In addition to combining the dendrimer conjugates with chemo and radiotherapies it also is contemplated that traditional gene therapies are used. For example targeting of p53 or p16 mutations along with treatment of the dendrimer conjugates provides an improved anti cancer treatment. The present invention contemplates the co treatment with other tumor related genes including but not limited to p21 Rb APC DCC NF I NF 2 BCRA2 p16 FHIT WT I MEN 1 MEN II BRCA1 VHL FCC MCC ras myc neu raf erb src fms jun trk ret gsp hst bcl and abl.

In vivo and ex vivo treatments are applied using the appropriate methods worked out for the gene delivery of a particular construct for a particular subject. For example for viral vectors one typically delivers 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10or 1 10infectious particles to the patient. Similar figures may be extrapolated for liposomal or other non viral formulations by comparing relative uptake efficiencies.

An attractive feature of the present invention is that the therapeutic compositions may be delivered to local sites in a patient by a medical device. Medical devices that are suitable for use in the present invention include known devices for the localized delivery of therapeutic agents. Such devices include but are not limited to catheters such as injection catheters balloon catheters double balloon catheters microporous balloon catheters channel balloon catheters infusion catheters perfusion catheters etc. which are for example coated with the therapeutic agents or through which the agents are administered needle injection devices such as hypodermic needles and needle injection catheters needleless injection devices such as jet injectors coated stents bifurcated stents vascular grafts stent grafts etc. and coated vaso occlusive devices such as wire coils.

Exemplary devices are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 935 114 5 908 413 5 792 105 5 693 014 5 674 192 5 876 445 5 913 894 5 868 719 5 851 228 5 843 089 5 800 519 5 800 508 5 800 391 5 354 308 5 755 722 5 733 303 5 866 561 5 857 998 5 843 003 and 5 933 145 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary stents that are commercially available and may be used in the present application include the RADIUS SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS Inc. the SYMPHONY Boston Scientific Corporation the Wallstent Schneider Inc. the PRECEDENT II Boston Scientific Corporation and the NIR Medinol Inc. . Such devices are delivered to and or implanted at target locations within the body by known techniques.

In some embodiments the therapeutic complexes of the present invention comprise a photodynamic compound and a targeting agent that is administered to a patient. In some embodiments the targeting agent is then allowed a period of time to bind the target cell e.g. about 1 minute to 24 hours resulting in the formation of a target cell target agent complex. In some embodiments the therapeutic complexes comprising the targeting agent and photodynamic compound are then illuminated e.g. with a red laser incandescent lamp X rays or filtered sunlight . In some embodiments the light is aimed at the jugular vein or some other superficial blood or lymphatic vessel. In some embodiments the singlet oxygen and free radicals diffuse from the photodynamic compound to the target cell e.g. cancer cell or pathogen causing its destruction.

Where clinical applications are contemplated in some embodiments of the present invention the dendrimer conjugates are prepared as part of a pharmaceutical composition in a form appropriate for the intended application. Generally this entails preparing compositions that are essentially free of pyrogens as well as other impurities that could be harmful to humans or animals. However in some embodiments of the present invention a straight dendrimer formulation may be administered using one or more of the routes described herein.

In preferred embodiments the dendrimer conjugates are used in conjunction with appropriate salts and buffers to render delivery of the compositions in a stable manner to allow for uptake by target cells. Buffers also are employed when the dendrimer conjugates are introduced into a patient. Aqueous compositions comprise an effective amount of the dendrimer conjugates to cells dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or aqueous medium. Such compositions also are referred to as inocula. The phrase pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable refer to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce adverse allergic or other untoward reactions when administered to an animal or a human. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the vectors or cells of the present invention its use in therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients may also be incorporated into the compositions.

In some embodiments of the present invention the active compositions include classic pharmaceutical preparations. Administration of these compositions according to the present invention is via any common route so long as the target tissue is available via that route. This includes oral nasal buccal rectal vaginal or topical. Alternatively administration may be by orthotopic intradermal subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal or intravenous injection.

The active dendrimer conjugates may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally or intratumorally. Solutions of the active compounds as free base or pharmacologically acceptable salts are prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

In some embodiments a therapeutic agent is released from dendrimer conjugates within a target cell e.g. within an endosome . This type of intracellular release e.g. endosomal disruption of a linker therapeutic conjugate is contemplated to provide additional specificity for the compositions and methods of the present invention. In some embodiments the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention contain between 100 150 primary amines on the surface. Thus the present invention provides dendrimers with multiple e.g. 100 150 reactive sites for the conjugation of linkers and or functional groups comprising but not limited to therapeutic agents targeting agents imaging agents and biological monitoring agents.

The compositions and methods of the present invention are contemplated to be equally effective whether or not the dendrimer conjugates of the present invention comprise a fluorescein e.g. FITC imaging agent. Thus each functional group present in a dendrimer composition is able to work independently of the other functional groups. Thus the present invention provides dendrimer conjugates that can comprise multiple combinations of targeting therapeutic imaging and biological monitoring functional groups. Additionally in some embodiments each functional group e.g. therapeutic agents targeting agents imaging agents and biological monitoring agents present in a dendrimer composition can function together with one or more of the functional groups e.g. cooperative binding of multiple targeting ligands .

The present invention also provides a very effective and specific method of delivering molecules e.g. therapeutic and imaging functional groups to the interior of target cells e.g. cancer cells . Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides methods of therapy that comprise or require delivery of molecules into a cell in order to function e.g. delivery of genetic material such as siRNAs .

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. The carrier may be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial an antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it may be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

Upon formulation dendrimer conjugates are administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. The formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as injectable solutions drug release capsules and the like. For parenteral administration in an aqueous solution for example the solution is suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. For example one dosage could be dissolved in 1 ml of isotonic NaCl solution and either added to 1000 ml of hypodermoclysis fluid or injected at the proposed site of infusion see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 15th Edition pages 1035 1038 and 1570 1580 . In some embodiments of the present invention the active particles or agents are formulated within a therapeutic mixture to comprise about 0.0001 to 1.0 milligrams or about 0.001 to 0.1 milligrams or about 0.1 to 1.0 or even about 10 milligrams per dose or so. Multiple doses may be administered.

Additional formulations that are suitable for other modes of administration include vaginal suppositories and pessaries. A rectal pessary or suppository may also be used. Suppositories are solid dosage forms of various weights and shapes usually medicated for insertion into the rectum vagina or the urethra. After insertion suppositories soften melt or dissolve in the cavity fluids. In general for suppositories traditional binders and carriers may include for example polyalkylene glycols or triglycerides such suppositories may be formed from mixtures containing the active ingredient in the range of 0.5 to 10 preferably 1 2 . Vaginal suppositories or pessaries are usually globular or oviform and weighing about 5 g each. Vaginal medications are available in a variety of physical forms e.g. creams gels or liquids which depart from the classical concept of suppositories. In addition suppositories may be used in connection with colon cancer. The dendrimer conjugates also may be formulated as inhalants for the treatment of lung cancer and such like.

The present invention also includes methods involving co administration of the multifunctional dendrimers and components thereof described herein with one or more additional active agents. Indeed it is a further aspect of this invention to provide methods for enhancing prior art therapies and or pharmaceutical compositions by co administering multifunctional dendrimers of this invention. In co administration procedures the agents may be administered concurrently or sequentially. In some embodiments the multifunctional dendrimers described herein are administered prior to the other active agent s . The agent or agents to be co administered depends on the type of condition being treated. For example when the condition being treated is cancer the additional agent can be a chemotherapeutic agent or radiation. The additional agents to be co administered such as anticancer agents can be any of the well known agents in the art including but not limited to those that are currently in clinical use. The determination of appropriate type and dosage of radiation treatment is also within the skill in the art or can be determined with relative ease.

Where clinical applications are contemplated in some embodiments of the present invention the dendrimer conjugates are prepared as part of a pharmaceutical composition in a form appropriate for the intended application. Generally this entails preparing compositions that are essentially free of pyrogens as well as other impurities that could be harmful to humans or animals. However in some embodiments of the present invention a straight dendrimer formulation may be administered using one or more of the routes described herein. It is contemplated that the present therapy can be employed in the treatment of any pathogenic disease for which a specific signature has been identified or which can be targeted for a given pathogen. Examples of pathogens contemplated to be treatable with the methods of the present invention include but are not limited to human papilloma virus human immunodeficiency virus rubella virus polio virus and the like.

In some embodiments the present invention also provides kits comprising one or more of the reagents and tools necessary to generate a dendrimer conjugated with one or more triazine compositions e.g. scaffolds e.g. triazine compositions capable of click chemistry for use in one step synthesis of functionalized dendrimers e.g. triazine compositions having one or more functional groups and methods of using such dendrimers.

The following examples are provided in order to demonstrate and further illustrate certain preferred embodiments and aspects of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

Previous experiments involving dendrimer related technologies are located in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 471 968 7 078 461 U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 940 243 10 431 682 11 503 742 11 661 465 11 523 509 12 403 179 12 106 876 11 827 637 10 039 393 10 254 126 09 867 924 12 570 977 and Ser. No. 12 645 081 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos. 61 140 480 61 091 608 61 097 780 61 101 461 60 604 321 60 690 652 60 707 991 60 208 728 60 718 448 61 035 949 60 830 237 and 60 925 181 and International Patent Application Nos. PCT US2010 050893 PCT US2010 042556 PCT US2001 015204 PCT US2005 030278 PCT US2009 069257 PCT US2009 036992 PCT US2009 059071 PCT US2007 015976 and PCT US2008 061023 each herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

A synthesis scheme of one embodiment of an ABbranch unit is shown in . In this scheme diethylene triamine was used as the branch TREN is a industrial material that can be purchased in large quantities and ethyl trifluoro acetate was used as an amine protection reagent. Ethyl trifluoro acetate protects primary amines preferentially but not secondary amine. Therefore two equivalents of trifluoro acetate were reacted with TREN to give the protected TREN in almost quantitative yield. Thereafter this secondary amine was reacted with t butyl acrylate through Michael addition to give the ABbranch unit upon TFA treatment to expose the carboxylic acid. An NMR spectrum showing structural analysis of the ABbranch unit is shown in .

Several different approaches were taken in an attempt to purify the product. In the reaction mixture DIPEA and the remaining TSTU persist as small molecules. Reverse phase HPLC was conducted however the material remained on the column and never washed out. In another approach the reaction mixture was stored at 4 C. in dichloromethane resulting in precipitation of solid material after several days of storage. While the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism and an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention it was contemplated that since the molecular weight of the protected G1 Baker Huang dendrimer is 750 it might be possible to remove small molecules by dialysis using a 500 Dalton membrane. Upon addition of water to the crude material white solid precipitated from solution. Subsequent analysis by C NMR H NMR MS and HPLC showed that the white solid is the G0 dendrimer. The white solid was washed with water several times and NMR and HPLC showed a high level of purity .

Following synthesis of the CF terminated G0 Baker Huang dendrimer embodiment deprotection reactions to result in terminal primary amines were attempted using several different strategies as shown in . Treatment with NHOH was incomplete after six days of reaction. Treatment with 7M NH MeOH was similarly slow requiring at least four days of reaction time. However treatment with KCO HO MeOH achieved nearly 100 completion after 3 hours. Results of structural analysis of the NH terminated G0 Baker Huang dendrimer embodiment are shown in NMR spectra MS and HPLC .

All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference. Various modifications and variations of the described method and system of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those skilled in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

