---

title: Culturing cells in a compartmentalized roller bottle
abstract: A versatile compartmentalized cell culture device, with a selectively permeable membrane separating the compartments, provides many attributes relative to traditional devices. It can be configured for high-density cell culture, co-culture, and sample dialysis while rolling or standing still. It can also be configured for continuous movement of liquid between compartments. The wide combination of attributes not found in other membrane based cell culture and bioprocessing devices includes more cell capacity, more cell secreted product capacity, higher cell and product density, increased medium capacity, minimized use of exogenous growth factors, compatibility with standard cell culture equipment and protocols, increased scale up efficiency, capacity to function when rolling or standing still, capacity for perfusion without the need for pumps, and more efficient sample dialysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08501468&OS=08501468&RS=08501468
owner: Wheaton Industries, Inc.
number: 08501468
owner_city: Millville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100301
---
This invention was made in part with U.S. Government support under National Institutes of Health Small Business Innovative Research Grant 2 R44 HL065977 02 Membrane Based Roller Bottle . The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present application claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 985 339 filed Nov. 10 2004 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 519 676 filed Nov. 10 2003 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

This invention relates to devices and methods for growing cells processing cells and dialyzing samples.

Devices integrating semi permeable membranes have a variety of uses in the cell culture field. Their uses include high density cell culture co culture cell infection and sample dialysis. However existing devices have deficiencies that limit their efficiency and usefulness.

Static membrane based devices for high density cell culture have been proposed and commercialized. The CELLine products from Integra Biosciences related to U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 537 Wilson et al. are commercialized devices are in the form of a flask separated into two compartments by way of a 10 000 molecular weight cutoff MWCO semi permeable dialysis membrane. They are advantageous for small scale production because they are easy to use. However these devices have scale up inefficiencies because they utilize a dialysis membrane in sheet form. To increase the number of cells present the dialysis membrane must increase in surface area. Since the membrane is in sheet form the footprint of the device must get proportionally larger. Devices with large footprints use incubator space inefficiently. Furthermore as dialysis membranes get larger in surface area the probability of rupture increases. Another deficiency is the limited height at which medium resides in the devices requiring an increase in device footprint as more medium is required to feed the increased quantity of cells residing in the devices. U.S. Pat. No. 4 748 124 Vogler and U.S. Pat. No. 6 468 792 Bader also introduce compartmentalized gas permeable devices. Vogler 124 discloses a dialysis membrane for compartmentalization while Bader 792 relies upon a microporous membrane. Unfortunately they suffer the same scale up limitations as the CELLine products.

Attempts have been made to improve the roller bottle by compartmentalizing the device with a semi permeable membrane. However each attempt has deficiencies and little commercial impact in the market has been achieved. Deficiencies include the requirement of non standard roller mechanisms inability to interface with pipettes incompatibility with common materials for adherent culture and scale up limitations due to the limited amount of medium that can reside in the devices.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 617 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 576 211 Falkenberg et al. describe a gas permeable roller bottle compartmentalized by a dialysis membrane. By separating the cells and cell secreted products from the nutrient medium by way of the dialysis membrane it is capable of increasing cell and cell secreted product density. The maximum medium volume that can be accommodated by the bottle is 360 ml of which 60 ml resides in the cell compartment and 300 ml in the nutrient compartment. Its scale up potential is limited by the 360 ml medium capacity which leads to an excessive number of devices for scale up. Also it is not suitable for adherent culture because it makes no provision for attachment surface area. Furthermore the dialysis membrane can only increase in surface area as the bottle diameter increases since it is perpendicular to the bottle axis of rotation. This restricts mass transfer.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 301 Falkenberg et al. describes an improved version of the devices defined in U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 617 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 576 211. A feature in the form of collapsible sheathing that prevents damage by internal pressurization is disclosed. However no improvement in the volume of medium that can reside in the device is made. Also the limited dialysis membrane surface area is not addressed. Furthermore it remains unsuitable for adherent culture.

Vivascience Sartorius Group sells a product called the MiniPERM that is related to the Falkenberg et al. patents. The maximum cell compartment module is 50 ml and the maximum nutrient module is 400 ml. Thus the maximum volume of medium that can reside in the commercial device is only 450 ml. The small size of the commercial device the need for custom rolling equipment the inability to be used with traditional laboratory pipettes the potential for cell shear the inability to allow microscopic viewing of cells and the lack of suitability for adherent culture limits its value as an alternative to the traditional bottle.

The device disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 702 945 Nagels et al. attempts to improve the MiniPERM device by improving its capacity to culture adherent cells. One cell attachment matrix is provided in the cell culture compartment at the inner face of the gas permeable membrane. Although adherent culture is possible it only offers a small surface for adherent cells relative to the traditional bottle. Also microscopic assessment of cell confluence and morphology is not accommodated.

Co culture applications are typically conducted in small devices like the Transwell device from Corning. These devices are for very small scale culture only. U.S. Pat. No. 5 527 705 Mussi et al. attempts to provide a large scale co culture alternative by use of a compartmentalized roller bottle. The bottle is compartmentalized by way of two coaxial cylindrical containers of similar length the inner container being centered within the exterior receptacle. A microporous membrane physically separates the cell population residing within the inner container from the cell population residing in the exterior receptacle. There is no discussion or guidance for how to prevent the inner container from causing disturbances in the inoculum residing in the exterior receptacle. On the contrary a recommended distance D between containers of 0.010 inches to about 0.040 inches dictates that the microporous membrane will move through liquid residing in the exterior receptacle. Because the recommended inoculation volume of a traditional roller bottle is 170 to 255 ml but contact with the microporous membrane occurs at about 15 ml to 80 ml depending on the distance D disturbance of the inoculum by the microporous membrane is virtually assured. Unfortunately cells have a difficult time seeding normally when there are disturbances to the medium in which they reside because their specific gravity is typically nearly that of the medium. Thus disturbance to the inoculum as the compartmentalized roller bottle rotates can prevent cells from properly gravitating to the inside surface of the exterior receptacle. Support members preferably extending from a first end to a second end of the inner container are used to physically create the distance D and will further disturb the inoculum. Thus although the roller bottle for co culture attempts to provide a good alternative to the Transwell device its geometry interferes with a normal inoculation process.

The use of devices compartmentalized by a microporous membrane for increasing the frequency of contact between vectors and stationary target cells has been described by U.S. Pat. No. 5 866 400 Palsson et al. . This approach relies on a microporous membrane of 0.1 microns to about 2.0 microns to retain cells in one compartment while vectors move past the trapped cells and through the microporous membrane. This increases the amount of contact between vectors and cells relative to methods that rely on Brownian motion and improved infectivity rates. To further increase the rate of infectivity vectors can be recycled back into the compartment containing cells by the use of a pump. Unfortunately the use of pumps adds complexity to the process.

Devices that rely upon dialysis membrane are commonly used to alter the molecular composition of samples residing in them. Placing the sample in a container that is comprised of a dialysis membrane and immersing the container in a second container holding a dialysate solution allows control over the final composition of the solution. Two styles of products dominate the market. The first style consists of dialysis tubing such as that marketed by Spectrum Labs and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 324 428 Flaherty and U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 075 Eddleman et al. . Disadvantageous membrane surface area to sample volume ratio are inherent. The second style is a cartridge format marketed by Pierce Chemical under the trade name Slide A Lyzer U.S. Pat. No. 5 503 741 Clark . It requires the use of a syringe and needle which is not a preferred liquid handling method compared to pipettes. It is also limited in size about a 10 ml sample volume because it requires the membrane to be flat. Thus it quickly outgrows typical dialysate containers. Furthermore unsupported sheet membranes are more likely to break as they get larger and larger.

In summary a variety of devices compartmentalized by various semi permeable membranes are used in high density cell culture co culture cell processing and sample dialysis applications. However these membrane based devices have inherent deficiencies that limit their efficiency and usefulness. Membrane based devices that seek to create high density cell culture do not provide geometry that is suitable for efficient scale up. The attempt to provide scaled up co culture in a membrane based roller bottle fails to allow cells to gravitate in the same manner as the Transwell device or the traditional roller bottle. The use of membrane based flow through devices to increase the rate of infectivity is complicated by the need for pumps when vectors are recycled. For sample dialysis dialysis tubing provides a poor surface area to sample volume ratio and Slide A Lyzer dialysis cartridges require the use of needles. Improved devices that overcome these deficiencies are needed.

It is an object of the present invention to disclose multiple formats for a device compartmentalized by a semi permeable membrane that are superior to previous compartmentalized cell culture co culture cell processing and laboratory sample dialysis devices. This compartmentalized device can be configured to allow high density cell culture while rolling or standing still to allow co culture without disruption of inoculum to physically move liquid from one compartment to the other and to perform more efficient dialysis of laboratory samples.

According to one embodiment of the invention a basal medium compartment and a cell culture compartment are separated by a semi permeable membrane to create an improved high density cell culture device. It can be configured to improve upon prior high density roller bottles in many ways that include holding more medium allowing the use of pipettes letting adherent cells attach just as they do in traditional roller bottles allowing microscopic viewing just as is done in traditional roller bottles and functioning on standard roller racks. The benefits of the novel compartmentalized device include the ability to increase the concentration of cells and cell secreted products allow a longer duration of time between feeding periods minimize the amount of wasted space inherent to traditional roller bottles without losing the desired features inherent to the traditional bottle such as ease of use microscopic evaluation pipette access and compatibility with standard roller racks. This embodiment can also be configured to more efficiently dialyze laboratory samples than currently used laboratory dialysis tubing or cartridges.

According to another embodiment of the invention an improved large scale co culture device is created. It improves upon prior art by creating geometric relationships between the basal medium compartment and the cell culture compartment that retain the desired attributes of a traditional roller bottle such as uniform cell seeding microscopic evaluation pipette access and compatibility with standard roller racks.

According to another embodiment of the present invention an improved compartmentalized device is created that is capable of functioning when rolling or standing. Advantages of this novel compartmentalized cell culture device include the ability to function when rolled or unrolled. When in the unrolled position it improves upon prior unrolled compartmentalized devices by allowing configurations that include a higher semi permeable membrane surface area to medium volume more medium height and improved scale up efficiency.

According to another embodiment of the present invention liquid is continuously moved from one compartment to the other while the device rolls. A suspended compartment is fabricated in part with a semi permeable membrane capable of passing liquid. The suspended compartment remains stationary as a surrounding compartment rotates about it. A physical feature collects medium from the surrounding compartment and deposits it to the suspended compartment by the rolling action of the bottle. Medium is returned to the surrounding compartment by passing through the semi permeable membrane.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a suspended compartment resides in the device. The device is rolled and configured to impart motion to the suspended compartment to simulate the action of a shaker plate.

The characteristics of semi permeable membrane determine what is allowed to pass between basal medium and cell culture medium and what is retained in cell culture compartment . Many sources of information are available that describe what characteristics of semi permeable membrane are desirable for a particular cell culture application. For example the CELLine products rely upon a 10 000 MWCO regenerated cellulose acetate membrane which has proved very effective in high density monoclonal antibody production. In cases where co culture is desired the semi permeable membrane can act to separate the cells from physical contact but allow secreted products to travel back and forth across the semi permeable membrane. Micorporous membranes are typically used for co culture applications. Sources of information that can be used to provide guidance in the selection of an appropriate semi permeable membrane include Wilson et al. 537 Vogler 124 Bader 792 Mussi et al. 705 Millipore Billerica Mass. Spectrum Laboratories Inc. Rancho Dominguez Calif. and Biovest International Coon Rapids Minn. .

Device housing can be any biocompatible material. In the preferred embodiment it is rigid and optically clear. Polystyrene is a common material used for flasks and roller bottles. If the device housing is made of polystyrene it can exhibit the same attachment characteristics of traditional devices. This can be helpful when scientists are scaling a culture out of traditional flasks and roller bottles into the compartmentalized device. In the preferred embodiment the device housing is cylindrical to facilitate rolling. However other shapes are possible. For example the shape described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 866 419 Meder can easily be integrated into the design. Those skilled in the art will recognize that shapes for the device housing that are not cylindrical can be adapted for a roller rack by attaching a cylindrical housing to the non cylindrical device housing. Preferably basal medium compartment conforms to the shape of the device housing so that the distance from the semi permeable membrane to the device housing is uniform about its perimeter.

Although those skilled in the art will recognize there are many ways to structure the compartmentalized device as a closed system by way of septums sterile tubing connections and the like. However accommodating the use of a pipette is advantageous when a there is a desire to retain the simplicity of traditional devices. and show how medium and cell culture medium can be introduced into the compartmentalized device with pipettes. In pipette is used to dispense basal medium into basal medium compartment by way of basal medium compartment access port . In pipette is used to dispense cells and cell culture medium into cell culture compartment by way of cell culture compartment access port .

The basal medium compartment has the role of holding enough basal medium to provide an appropriate source of substrates and an appropriate sink for waste products. Thus a primary design consideration is the amount of medium required for a given cell culture application. Increasing the volume of the basal medium can reduce feeding frequency relative to traditional devices. For example if 300 ml of basal medium residing in a traditional roller bottle supports 300 10cells and needs to be exchanged every day putting 600 ml of basal medium in the basal medium compartment can reduce the feeding schedule to every two days. Placing the cells and a small volume of cell culture medium in the cell culture compartment and placing a relatively large volume of medium in the basal medium compartment can increase cell density. For example if 300 10cells typically reside in 300 ml of medium in a traditional roller bottle placing cells and 10 ml of cell culture medium in the cell culture compartment and 300 ml of basal medium in the basal medium compartment will increase cell density by about 30 fold without a change in the feeding schedule.

One design consideration for the basal medium compartment is related to hydrostatic pressure differential across the semi permeable membrane. When the height of basal medium exceeds the height of cell culture medium as shown for example in hydrostatic pressure differential across the membrane will be created. Thus liquid from the basal medium compartment will tend to move into the cell culture compartment. Care should be taken to ensure that liquid moving into the cell culture compartment does not dilute important substances that may reside in the cell culture medium such as serum. This effect can be controlled by proper selection of the semi permeable membrane. Factors to consider include MWCO material surface area and membrane thickness. Typically microporous semi permeable membranes will allow liquid to move through them much more quickly than ultrafiltrative semi permeable membranes at a given hydrostatic pressure differential. Liquid flux is also proportional to surface area. The liquid flux characteristic should be evaluated on a case by case basis when properly designing the compartmentalized device. For example we have determined that 10 000 MWCO regenerated cellulose membranes from AKZO Nobel with a 3 cmsurface area allowed almost no liquid to move across it over a 5 day period when the basal medium resided at a height of 2.0 inches above the semi permeable membrane. On the other hand we have also determined that 0.4 micron microporous membranes from Nucleopore with a 3 cmsurface area allowed a 1.75 inch drop in liquid height over a 5 day period when the basal medium initially resided at a height of 2.0 inches above the semi permeable membrane.

The height of basal medium can be controlled by the geometry of the basal medium compartment. For a given volume of medium simply structuring the basal medium compartment to increase in length will reduce the height of the medium. Thus hydrostatic pressure differential can be reduced by the geometry of the basal medium compartment.

Movement of liquid across the semi permeable membrane can also occur when the protein concentration of the cell culture medium is increased relative to the basal medium as may be the case when cells and cell secreted products reside at high density. High osmolarity of the cell culture medium will then draw liquid from the basal medium across the semi permeable membrane. This is not uncommon with commercial devices that are compartmentalized by way of a dialysis membrane. Protocols can be adjusted to minimize any detrimental effect on the culture. For example in applications where serum resides in the cell culture medium but not in the basal medium the CELLine product literature suggests increasing the concentration of serum by about 5 over that used in traditional devices. In this manner the dilution of serum by liquid transfer across the dialysis membrane will not bring the concentration below that which the cells experienced as they were scaled up from cryopreservation.

Preferably the basal medium compartment is structured in a manner that makes the most effective use of the semi permeable membrane. That can be achieved by configuring the basal medium compartment to rotate as the compartmentalized device rotates. Doing so allows the semi permeable membrane to become wetted across its entire surface area and can increase mass transfer between the basal medium and the cell culture medium. In the case of co culture where cells may be attached to the semi permeable membrane doing so increases the surface area for cells to reside upon and allows attached cells to experience gas exchange in a similar manner as the traditional roller bottle.

Many design approaches are possible to ensure the basal medium compartment rotates as the compartmentalized device rotates as those skilled in the art will recognize. The basal medium compartment can rotate in the same direction of the device housing or in the opposite direction. For example physically connecting the basal medium compartment to the device housing allows it to rotate in the same direction. The physical connecting points should be selected and configured to prevent interference with the withdrawal of liquid from the cell culture compartment. Allowing the basal medium compartment to rotate in the opposite direction of the device housing can be achieved by a variety of methods as those skilled in the art will recognize. In this case a cylindrically shaped basal medium compartment and device housing are preferred. Whether or not the basal medium compartment is physically attached to the device housing opposite rotation can be attained just from the frictional force between the basal medium compartment and the device housing. Modifying the surface finish at the contact points between the basal medium compartment and the device housing can alter friction. A geared interface between the basal medium compartment and the device housing is another way of achieving opposing rotation. Care should be taken that the interface does not prevent cell culture medium from moving freely about the length of the cell culture compartment. If opposing rotation is desired with the basal medium compartment physically connected to the bottle housing any linkage that allows the basal medium compartment to rotate in the opposite direction of the device housing will suffice. For example a frictionless rotary union is one option.

Another design consideration for the basal medium compartment is related to its physical contact with the cell culture medium in the cell culture compartment. Physical contact can cause perturbations in the cell culture medium and affect the manner in which adherent cells deposit onto the device housing and can cause cell shear in suspension cell culture applications. Examples of alternative geometries and the contact each makes with inoculum and cell culture medium are shown in and . In basal medium compartment A extends throughout cell culture compartment A. In basal medium compartment B extends throughout cell culture compartment B but its profile is designed to allow basal medium compartment B to avoid contact with cell culture medium in areas other than where semi permeable membrane exists. In basal medium compartment C extends throughout cell culture compartment C and is elevated a greater distance beyond the lower portion of device housing than the configuration of .

Inoculum makes contact with the basal medium compartment of each configuration in a different manner. In contact is made with cell culture medium along the length of basal medium compartment A. In contact is made with cell culture medium along a small portion of the length of basal medium compartment B which is preferably comprised mainly of semi permeable membrane . In no contact is made with cell culture medium because basal medium compartment C remains elevated as bottle housing rolls. When using the configuration of after cells have seeded from cell culture medium there are two options to place cell culture medium in communication with basal medium by way of semi permeable membrane . The first option is by increasing the volume of cell culture medium in cell culture compartment C until it makes contact with semi permeable membrane . The second option is to lower basal medium compartment C post inoculation as shown in to so that semi permeable membrane makes contact with cell culture medium . This second option allows a much smaller volume of cell culture medium to reside in cell culture compartment C than the first option. shows basal medium compartment C repositioned to allow a small volume of cell culture medium to reside in cell culture compartment C and to make contact with semi permeable membrane .

Moving basal medium compartment C into the lowered position can be achieved in any number of ways as those skilled in the art of cell culture device design and mechanical engineering will recognized. A wide variety of mechanisms are possible. One technique is to use the weight of the basal medium to drive the basal medium compartment into the lowered position as shown in through . The technique described allows the basal medium compartment to automatically move into a feeding position when medium is added to the basal medium compartment. and show perspective views from the rear of compartmentalized device which is configured with one way to achieve this objective. shows a rear view of compartmentalized device of . shows a rear view of compartmentalized device of . Basal medium compartment C is held in frictionless slot . Frictionless slot is integral to connection rod which mates to positioning ring . As best shown in basal medium compartment C is elevated so that it does not disturb inoculum or cell culture medium. Positioning ring makes frictionless contact with device housing . Counter weight is attached to positioning ring and connected rod is mounted to positioning ring directly opposite counter weight . Counter weight exceeds the weight of basal medium compartment C. Therefore counter weight forces positioning ring to rotate until counter weight is at the lowest point forcing connecting rod and basal medium compartment C to reside directly above it. Gravity causes basal medium compartment C to fall to the lowest point allowed by slot . The dimensions of slot can be altered to place basal medium compartment C at various desired heights relative to device housing . When cells need to be fed adding basal medium to basal medium compartment C automatically places basal medium compartment C in contact with cell culture medium. When the weight of basal medium compartment C increased beyond that of counter weight due to the added weight of the basal medium any motion that moves basal medium compartment C off center will allow gravity to place it in the lowered position. That motion can come by moving basal medium compartment C slightly with a pipette just from the simple act of carrying compartmentalized device from the laminar flow hood to the incubator or from the action of the roller mechanisms on device housing . Once basal medium compartment C gets off center a lever arm is created and its weight overcomes counter weight and frictionless positioning ring rotates until basal medium compartment C comes to reside at the lowest point possible. Feet make contact with device housing . By creating the appropriate amount of friction between feet and device housing basal medium compartment C can be made to roll in the opposite direction of device housing .

Structuring the basal medium compartment so that basal medium can reside within it can be achieved in a number of ways. If the height of basal medium resides below the height of the basal medium compartment access port the medium compartment access port can merely be an open port. However if it is desirable for basal medium to reside at a height that is greater than the basal medium compartment access port a seal is needed to prevent basal medium from spilling into the cell culture compartment. and show one example of how to configure a basal medium access port cover that can act to retain basal medium in the basal medium compartment. The ability to use pipettes for liquid handling can be advantageous when it is desired to retain the simplicity of traditional devices such as flasks and roller bottles. The configuration shown in and is adapted to allow pipette access. In basal medium compartment access port cover is driven open by pipette coil spring is forced from its original position and basal medium is introduced into basal medium compartment D. When the pipette is removed coil spring drives basal medium pipette access port cover back into the sealing position. This allows the basal medium compartment to be entirely filled with medium and to retain medium when compartmentalized device A is laid on its side as shown in .

When the basal medium compartment is configured with a basal medium access port cover pressure can build up in the basal medium compartment during shipping or during use. In shipping gas expands due to temperature changes and elevation changes commonly experienced in ground or air transport. In use medium can off gas due to temperature changes and the increased gas volume can pressurize the basal medium compartment. If the type of semi permeable membrane that is integrated into the basal medium compartment does not have enough compliance a pressure increase can damage the basal medium compartment integrity. Those skilled in the art will recognize that there are many ways of venting the basal medium compartment as pressure rises. For example an umbrella check valve or poppet valve can be integrated into the basal medium compartment.

When a pipette is used to remove medium from the basal medium compartment orienting the compartmentalized device at an angle that is closer to horizontal than vertical will make it more convenient to handle in a flow hood. One method of accessing the low point of the basal medium compartment when the compartmentalized device is oriented at an angle that is closer to horizontal than vertical is to create a conduit within the basal medium compartment. shows a cross section of an embodiment that achieves this objective. Pipette is engaged into pipette interface which creates a fluid flow path from the lower portion of basal medium compartment E to pipette . Pipette interface should be constructed such that it creates a seal with pipette but preferably releases pipette easily so that pipette does not detach from its vacuum pump. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 460 850 and co pending U.S. Application No. 60 517 288 incorporated herein in their entirety are sources of information that provides guidance regarding this feature.

The semi permeable membrane should be secured to the basal medium compartment in a liquid tight manner. and show one configuration of attaching semi permeable membrane A to basal medium compartment F when semi permeable membrane A is extruded. is a magnified view of detail A of . Gaskets mate to the housing of basal medium compartment F and semi permeable membrane A is placed over gaskets and secured in a liquid tight manner to gaskets by retaining wire . shows a sheet semi permeable membrane B secured to basal medium compartment G by adhesive . Those skilled in the art will recognize that many methods of securing the semi permeable membrane to the basal medium compartment are possible including mechanical squeeze adhesives potting compounds sonic welds and the like.

Collecting liquid from the cell culture compartment can be achieved in a variety of ways. shows a very simple method in which pipette is positioned in a manner such that the tip makes contact with groove running the length of device housing A. Groove provides a location for cell culture medium to collect in and the tip of pipette to be positioned in. Rims ensure that the bottle is capable of rolling smoothly. shows another method of collecting cell culture medium . Compartmentalized device B is oriented vertically. The tip of pipette is docked into conduit which travels through basal medium compartment H and into cell culture compartment D. Conduit passes through basal medium compartment H in a liquid tight manner to prevent loss of basal medium . Basal medium compartment H is located a predetermined distance from device housing wall so that cell culture medium can collect at the distal end of conduit . In this manner a vacuum applied to pipette draws cell culture medium through conduit and into pipette . The tip of conduit should seal against pipette but not exert more force than would cause pipette to get stuck in conduit when attempting to withdraw pipette . Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 460 850 and co pending U.S. Application No. 60 517 288 are sources of information that provides guidance regarding this feature.

In the case where the compartmentalized device is not a closed system access port s into the basal medium compartment and or the cell culture compartment can be covered by a cap that has the same function as that of a traditional roller bottle. In the loosened position it allows gas exchange and prevents contamination. In the closed position it can trap gas such as is the case when 5 COenvironment resides within the cell culture compartment but the compartmentalized device is operated in a warm room. If the compartmentalized device is structured as a closed system it can either be periodically sparged with gas to provide oxygen and pH control or at least a portion of device housing can be gas permeable so that gas exchange is adequate to maintain the culture. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814 provides a good reference for gas permeable device housings.

For adherent cell culture the surface area within the compartmentalized device for cells to attach to can be increased by any methods known to those skilled in the art. Sources for guidance include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 941 661 4 317 886 4 824 787 4 829 004 4 912 058 or 6 130 080.

In the event that additional mixing of the cell culture medium is desired such as may be the case when the volume of cell culture medium is very small the location of the semi permeable membrane is distant from portions of the cell culture medium and or for any other reason that can be achieved. shows a configuration that rocks the compartmentalized bottle in an up and down motion as the compartmentalized bottle rolls. and show cross sectional views of at different time points. Eccentric is positioned in proximity of one end of device housing B. As shown in and when compartmentalized bottle C rotates eccentric acts to lift and lower the end of device housing B. In this manner cell culture medium is repeatedly rocked back and forth thereby breaking up any concentration gradients that may form. If desired a second eccentric can be attached to the opposing end of the device housing to provide more vigorous rocking action. Other shapes beside eccentric can be utilized such as a simple projection emanating at a point location. The device housing will be elevated as the projection passes the rollers of the roller rack. More than one projection and or projections on each end of the bottle can be used to make the rocking action more vigorous.

The compartmentalized device can also be used to provide a more efficient device for dialysis of laboratory samples. shows one embodiment of compartmentalized device D configured to achieve this objective. A dialysate compartment is formed in any of the manners previously described for forming a basal medium compartment. A sample compartment is formed in any of the manners previously described for forming a cell culture compartment. In the preferred embodiment the MWCO of semi permeable membrane C will be less than 100 000 Daltons and often from 3 000 Daltons to 30 000 dialysate compartment will have a dialysate compartment access port cover configured as previously described for that of the basal medium access port cover compartmentalized device D will be configured to roll in a roller rack and cap will be present to prevent accidental spilling or contamination of sample . In use dialysate is placed into dialysate compartment and sample is placed into sample compartment . Compartmentalized device D is rolled in a roller rack at any speed desired. Additional mixing can be attained using the techniques described previously in through . Periodically dialysate can be removed and replaced. The advantage of this embodiment compared to alternative methods and devices for dialysis of laboratory samples are numerous and are best understood after reviewing the prior art of U.S. Pat. No. 5 324 428 U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 075 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 503 741. Larger sample volumes can be processed with a high ratio of membrane surface area to sample volume a stir bar is not needed there is no need to properly orient the device in a dialysate container needles are not needed liquid can easily be handled with standard laboratory tools like pipettes and aspirators the mess associated with liquid dripping from the dialysis membranes as they are removed from dialysate containers is avoided sterility of the sample is easily maintained and even the dialysate can easily be kept sterile.

The compartmentalized device can be configured to function without rolling. For example this may be advantageous when it is desired to reduce cell shear or when rolling equipment is not available. shows a cross sectional view of compartmentalized device E configured in a manner that does not require rolling. Gas permeable bottom allows gas exchange through the bottom of compartmentalized device E. The gas permeable material can be any material known to those skilled in the art of cell culture device design. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814 is among the many sources of information that can provide guidance. Basal medium compartment I resides a predetermined distance from gas permeable bottom . Cell culture compartment E contains cell culture medium and basal medium compartment I contains basal medium . shows how compartmentalized device E can function in the rolled position. Access to either compartment can be achieved as previously described.

When functioning in the unrolled position cells come to reside in proximity of gas permeable bottom . Cell culture medium is in communication with basal medium by way of semi permeable membrane D. Controlling the volume of cell culture medium can be achieved by the distance that basal medium compartment I resides from gas permeable bottom and from device housing . As the distance becomes smaller for any given height of cell culture medium the volume is reduced thereby increasing concentration. The ability to gain advantage by placing medium at heights beyond conventional wisdom is described in Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814.

Another advantage of this configuration is the ability to balance hydrostatic pressure across the semi permeable membrane. It is easy to construct a configuration with a high ratio of the volume of basal medium to the volume of cell culture medium yet a small differential in height between the basal medium and the cell culture medium. Thus the concentration advantages and feeding frequency advantages remain present while the hydrostatic driving force across the semi permeable membrane is reduced. As shown in the height of cell culture medium and basal medium are equal balancing the hydrostatic pressure across semi permeable membrane D. The difference in volume can be readily understood by calculating one of many possible geometric relationships. For example basal medium volume would be 1100 ml and the volume of cell culture medium would be 295 ml if the compartmentalized device is cylindrical basal medium compartment I resides 10 mm from device housing C per side 10 mm from the gas permeable bottom cell culture medium is place at a height of 15 mm and the device housing has a diameter of 11 cm. Thus the ratio of basal medium to cell culture medium would be about 3.7 showing that cells and cell secreted protein could be increased perhaps by more than about 3.7 times depending on the feeding schedule. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814 incorporated herein in its entirety gives guidance regarding medium height and the effect upon cell growth and secreted products.

Depending on the type of material used for the semi permeable membrane and whether or not the compartmentalized device is rolled structural support about the exterior of the semi permeable membrane may be desired. For example if the semi permeable membrane bulges and firmly presses against the device housing cell culture medium may be physically blocked or impeded from moving to about the perimeter of the semi permeable membrane. Keeping the semi permeable membrane from making detrimental physical contact with the device housing can be achieved in any number of ways including the use of an open weave mesh. If structural support is provided about the exterior of the semi permeable membrane the mesh or other physical structure should allow as much cell culture medium contact with the semi permeable membrane as possible while allowing movement of the cell culture medium about the surface of the semi permeable membrane. Prior to the use of structural support mass transfer evaluation should be conducted to determine the effect of any given support configuration relative to no support. The rate of glucose transfer from the basal medium compartment into the cell culture compartment is one way of measuring the effect of the structural support upon mass transfer. In the case of hydrophilic membranes such as regenerated cellulose transfer may be adequate without structural support.

This configuration can be very helpful for a variety of applications. A main attribute is the ability to move liquid from one compartment to the next on a continuous basis without the need for pumps. For example if hematopoietic cells are to be transduced moving vectors continuously past them creates a higher incidence of contact than simple Brownian motion. Hematopoietic cells can be placed in the suspended compartment and the characteristics of the semi permeable can be selected to retain the cells in the suspended compartment but let medium and vectors pass. When vectors are introduced into the suspended compartment by the scoop they make their way toward the surrounding compartment by gravity contacting the hematopoietic cells. Vectors that do not transduce a hematopoietic cell and pass to the surrounding compartment are then returned to the suspended compartment by the scoop and have another chance to transduce the cell. In this case it is important that the medium residing in the suspended compartment does not drain completely which would cause the cells to die.

Other examples for which this configuration could be useful include the desire to perfuse each compartment with cell secreted product or any exogenous factors or for co culture. In this case cells can be located in the suspended compartment and the surrounding compartment. Liquid surrounding the cells is constantly moved from the surrounding compartment to the suspended compartment and back again.

In many applications with traditional culture devices they are placed upon shaker plates. When a compartmentalized device is configured with a suspended compartment that remains in position as the device housing rotates about it it can create a similar action as a shaker plate. and show a cross sectional view of such a compartmentalized device. through depict the motion that the suspended compartment and cell culture medium go through as the compartmentalized device rotates. Preferably the compartmentalized device is configured to roll on a standard roller rack. Compartmentalized device F integrates suspended compartment A. shows suspended compartment A at rest. As device housing A rotates about suspended compartment A as shown by rotation direction arrow device housing projection makes contact with suspended compartment projection and drives suspended compartment from its resting position as best shown in . The contact forces suspended compartment A to rotate about its pivot point contact with device housing A until device housing projection loses contact with suspended compartment projection at which point suspended compartment A swings back past its original position as best shown in . As gravity exerts is force on suspended compartment A it comes to rest as best shown in . The amount of agitation to cell culture medium can be varied by the rate of rotation the duration of contact between the device housing projection and suspended compartment projection and the number of device housing projections.

In the case where culture of cells upon a gas permeable membrane is desired the configuration shown in through can useful for periodically mixing cells. In that case the selection of material for semi permeable membrane A is based on the capacity to provide gas transfer to cells residing above it. U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 537 is among the many sources of information that provides guidance for the material selection of the gas permeable membrane. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 961 814 describes the how to structure gas permeable devices for the culture of cells and provides guidance of specific design attributes that can be applied to the design of suspended compartment A to optimize culture performance.

Compartmentalized device test fixtures were configured as shown in . The device housing was created by modifying a Corning 850 cmroller bottle. The bottom of the bottle was removed to form device housing . Basal medium compartment was placed in the distal end of device housing as shown. Device bottom was attached in a liquid tight manner thereby completing the assembly procedure and creating a liquid tight cell culture compartment . Semi permeable membrane consisted of a 14 000 MWCO cellulose membrane 1.0 inch long and 4.4 inches in diameter creating a semi permeable membrane surface area of 89 cm. Semi permeable membrane was constrained from expanding by mesh comprised of 0.020 inch diameter polypropylene strands at 16 strands per inch. The inside surface area of device housing available for cell attachment was the surface that resided between basal medium compartment and access port which was approximately 490 cm.

Growth of an adherent CHO cell line CHO ACE005 was evaluated in six compartmentalized device test fixtures relative to a traditional roller bottle. The capability to support the growth of cells at high density and to reduce the use of serum was assessed. To assess growth of cells at high density in the compartmentalized devices the medium volume to growth surface area ratio was reduced well below that of the traditional Corning 490 cmroller bottle controls. The traditional Corning 490 cmroller bottle controls contained 115 ml of medium while each compartmentalized device test fixture contained only 30 ml in cell culture compartment . Additional medium support 85 ml was provided by basal medium compartment . Thus all test devices had 115 ml of total medium but only 30 ml was in direct contact with cells in the compartmentalized device test fixtures versus 115 ml in the traditional bottle.

Further benefits can be derived if the compartmentalized devices are capable of reducing the use of serum. To evaluate this potential benefit all six compartmentalized device test fixtures had 10 serum in cell culture compartment . Three compartmentalized device test fixtures had 10 serum in basal medium compartment and three compartmentalized device test fixtures had no serum in the basal medium.

DMEM medium was used for all devices supplemented with serum as described. All devices were rotated at 1 RPM at 37 C 95 RH and 5 CO.

Adherent cells were rinsed with PBS and collected by two rounds of trypsinization 0.25 Trypsin 1 mM EDTA.4Na . Cells were stained with trypan blue to determine viability and enumerated using a hemocytometer. Cell density identified as cells per ml in Table E1 was calculated per ml of cell culture medium. Thus the total quantity of cells recovered from each compartmentalized device test fixture was divided by 30 ml while the total quantity of cells recovered from each roller bottle control was divided by 115 ml. All values were averaged and Table E1 summarizes the findings.

Table E1 clearly shows the capacity of the compartmentalized device to make cell culture more efficient. Despite over a 10 fold reduction in serum use the number of viable cells cultured was not impeded. Furthermore the concentration of cells in the medium was increased nearly 4 fold.

Four gamma irradiated compartmentalized device test fixtures were constructed as previously described in Example 1 and shown in . Tests were conducted to evaluate the ability of the compartmentalized device test fixtures to increase the density of secreted antibody the amount of secreted antibody and reduce serum relative to traditional roller bottles.

22 10murine hybridoma cells secreting IgG monoclonal antibody were suspended in 25 ml of medium and were inoculated into each cell culture compartment and 75 ml of medium was placed into each basal medium compartment . 22 10murine hybridoma cells secreting IgG monoclonal antibody were suspended in 100 ml of medium and were inoculated into traditional Corning 490 cmroller bottle controls. Glucose consumption was monitored daily. FBS serum concentration was 10 for the traditional Corning 490 cmroller bottle controls and for all medium in two compartmentalized device test fixtures . However two compartmentalized device test fixtures contained FBS serum at 10 concentration in cell culture compartment with no FBS serum in basal medium compartment . All devices were rotated at 1 RPM in ambient conditions of 37 C 95 RH and 5 CO. Samples were collected from each cell culture compartment and from the roller bottle controls every 5 days. ELISA was performed to determine antibody production. Results are shown in Tables E2.1 and E2.2.

Table E2.1 demonstrates that each compartmentalized device test fixture generated at least a 16 fold increase IgG monoclonal antibody concentration relative to the traditional roller bottle controls.

Table E2.2 demonstrates that total amount of antibody produced in compartmentalized device test fixtures n 4 increased at least 52 compared to the traditional roller bottle controls n 2 p

Compartmentalized test devices were configured as shown in with the exception that mesh was not present. Semi permeable membrane was unconstrained and in operation expanded from swelling to make contact with device housing . Device housing extended approximately seven inches between basal medium compartment and access port generating a device housing surface area suitable for cell culture of approximately 600 cm.

Two compartmentalized test devices and a T 175 control flask were compared on the basis of cell density. Medium consisted of Hyclone media cat SH30382.02 supplemented with 10 Hyclone Fetal Bovine Serum and 1 Gibco Penicillin Streptomycin. Culture conditions were 37 C 95 R.H. and 5 CO. All devices were rolled at 1 RPM. Each cell culture compartment was inoculated with 25 10murine hybridoma cells in 25 mls of medium. Each basal medium compartment received 170 ml of medium. A T 175 control flask was inoculated with 25 10 ml murine hybridoma cells in 25 ml of the same medium.

All test devices were fed as needed to keep the cells viable. Table E3 shows maximum viable cells density and maximum viable cells attained in each device.

The power of the compartmentalized device to increase cell density relative to the commonly used tissue culture flask was demonstrated. Cell density increased at least approximately 600 .

Tests were conducted to evaluate the capacity of the compartmentalized device to function in the unrolled state. Three configurations of unrolled compartmentalized devices were created each with a different semi permeable membrane surface area. These configurations were evaluated relative to the traditional T 175 flask. In a murine hybridoma application to obtain monoclonal antibody a comparison was made with respect to cell density.

Two styles of compartmentalized test devices were configured in a similar manner as that described in and further defined as shown in and respectively. The compartmentalized test devices are hereinafter identified as Test Device A and Test Device B respectively. Test Device A and Test Device B differed in the amount of semi permeable surface area in contact with cell culture medium. For each test device the device housing was created by modifying a Corning 850 cmroller bottle. The bottom of the bottle was removed to form device housing . Basal medium compartment was placed in the location shown. Gas permeable device bottom comprised of 0.004 inch thick di methyl silicone of 98 cm was attached to device housing in a liquid tight manner thereby creating a liquid tight cell culture compartment . Semi permeable membrane in each device consisted of 14 000 MWCO cellulose membrane. Test Device A as shown in had semi permeable membrane comprising the perimeter of cylindrical basal medium compartment extending a height of 1.0 inch from the bottom of basal medium compartment . Test Device B as shown in had semi permeable membrane comprising the perimeter of cylindrical basal medium compartment extending a height of 1.0 inch from the bottom of basal medium compartment and comprising the bottom of basal medium compartment . Table E4 summarizes the two styles of compartmentalized test devices and the control T 175 flask.

Murine hybridoma cells were cultured in Hyclone medium. Cell counts and viability were monitored made using standard hemocytometer and trypan blue exclusion methods. Each compartmentalized device was inoculated on Day 0 with murine hybridoma cells. Table E4.1 shows the results.

These results clearly indicate the ability of the unrolled compartmentalized device to culture cells a much higher density than traditional culture devices such as the tissue culture flask. Importantly increasing semi permeable membrane surface area can yield additional culture capacity without increasing the footprint of the device. This allows more efficient use of space.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications can be made thereof without departing from the spirit. Therefore it is not intended to limit the breadth of the invention to the embodiments illustrated and described. Rather the scope of the invention is to be interpreted by the appended claims and their equivalents. Each publication patent patent application and reference cited herein is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

