---

title: Pyrrolopyrazine inhibitors of kinases
abstract: 

wherein R, R, X, and Y are defined in the description. The present invention relates also to compositions containing said compounds which are useful for inhibiting kinases such as Cdc7 and methods of treating diseases such as cancer.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08383624&OS=08383624&RS=08383624
owner: Abbott Laboratories
number: 08383624
owner_city: Abbott Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100715
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 225 770 filed Jul. 15 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Eukaryotic cells divide by a directed step wise process referred to as the cell cycle. Cells must first replicate their DNA in S phase before separating their sister chromatids in mitosis karyokinesis and splitting off into two daughter cells cytokinesis . In mammalian cells DNA replication must be initiated at multiple sites replication origins throughout the genome to ensure that all the genetic material is duplicated prior to mitosis. To maintain genome integrity DNA must be replicated only once per cell cycle and so this process is highly regulated and governed by checkpoints. Before replication is initiated origins must be licensed through the formation of pre replication complexes pre RCs in early G1. Formation of pre RCs involves the step wise binding of the origin recognition complex ORC to origins followed by the binding of the loading factors Cdc6 and Cdt1. These proteins then recruit the putative DNA replicative helicase complex MCM2 7. Once this pre RC is formed replication initiation requires the activation of S phase promoting serine threonine kinases Cyclin Cdks and Cdc7 Dbf4. These kinases consist of an enzymatic subunit CDKs and Cdc7 and a regulatory sub unit Cyclins for CDKs Dbf4 or Drf1 for Cdc7 . They phosphorylate multiple MCMs in pre RCs in a sequential manner thereby activating the helicase and recruiting other DNA replication factors Cdc45 GINS complex etc. for DNA synthesis for reviews see Kim et al. 2003 Kim et al. 2004 Lau et al. 2006 Lau et al. 2007 Stillman 2005 . MCM2 Serine 40 and Serine 53 are well characterized phosphorylation sites for Cdc7 Dbf4 Cho et al. 2006 Montagnoli et al. 2006 Tsuji et al. 2006 .

Inhibiting regulators of replication initiation such as Cdc6 Cdc7 Dbf4 or Cdc7 Drf1 has lethal consequences in cancerous cells whereas normal cells are able to arrest and resume normal divisions once initiation activity is restored Feng et al. 2003 Montagnoli et al. 2004 see Lau and Jiang 2006 for review . Small molecule inhibitors of the protein kinase Cdc7 are thus attractive candidates for therapeutic intervention in cancer inflammation and other cell proliferative disorders.

The present invention has numerous embodiments. One embodiment of this invention therefore pertains to compounds that have formula I 

Also provided are pharmaceutically acceptable compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I a pharmaceutically acceptable salt in combination with a pharmaceutically suitable carrier.

One embodiment is directed a method of treating cancer in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I . In yet another embodiment pertains to a method of decreasing tumor volume in a mammal comprising administering thereto a therapeutically acceptable amount of a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of formula I .

This detailed description is intended only to acquaint others skilled in the art with Applicants invention its principles and its practical application so that others skilled in the art may adapt and apply the invention in its numerous forms as they may be best suited to the requirements of a particular use. This description and its specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only. This invention therefore is not limited to the embodiments described in this patent application and may be variously modified.

Unless otherwise defined herein scientific and technical terms used in connection with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear however in the event of any latent ambiguity definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise. Furthermore the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included is not limiting. With reference to the use of the words comprise or comprises or comprising in this patent application including the claims Applicants note that unless the context requires otherwise those words are used on the basis and clear understanding that they are to be interpreted inclusively rather than exclusively and that Applicants intend each of those words to be so interpreted in construing this patent application including the claims below. For a variable that occurs more than one time in any substituent or in the compound of the invention or any other formulae herein its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Combinations of substituents are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Stable compounds are compounds which can be isolated in a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture.

It is meant to be understood that proper valences are maintained for all combinations herein that monovalent moieties having more than one atom are attached through their left ends and that divalent moieties are drawn from left to right.

As used in the specification and the appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

The term alkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent typically containing from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl iso amyl and hexyl and the like.

The term alkenyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more double bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethenyl vinyl 2 propenyl 3 propenyl 1 4 pentadienyl 1 4 butadienyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 butenyl and the like.

The term alkynyl alone or in combination with another term s means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent containing one or more triple bonds and typically from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms or in another embodiment from 2 to about 8 carbon atoms in another embodiment from 2 to about 6 carbon atoms and in another embodiment from 2 to about 4 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include ethynyl 2 propynyl 3 propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 butynyl and the like.

The term carbocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkyl partially saturated cyclic i.e. cycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. aryl hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms ring atoms are the atoms bound together to form the ring or rings of a cyclic substituent . A carbocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A carbocyclyl may be a single ring structure which typically contains from 3 to 8 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of such single ring carbocyclyls include cyclopropyl cyclopropanyl cyclobutyl cyclobutanyl cyclopentyl cyclopentanyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexanyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl and phenyl. A carbocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic carbocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls. In a spirocyclic carbocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. An example of a spirocyclic carbocyclyl is spiropentanyl. In a bridged carbocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. Examples of bridged carbocyclyls include bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 enyl and adamantanyl. In a fused ring carbocyclyl system two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of two or three fused ring carbocyclyls include naphthalenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl tetralinyl indenyl indanyl dihydroindenyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and decalinyl.

The term cycloalkyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated cyclic hydrocarbyl substituent containing from 3 to 14 carbon ring atoms. A cycloalkyl may be a single carbon ring which typically contains from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms and more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. A cycloalkyl may alternatively be polycyclic or contain more than one ring. Examples of polycyclic cycloalkyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic carbocyclyls.

The term aryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic carbocyclyl containing from 6 to 14 carbon ring atoms. Examples of aryls include phenyl naphthalenyl and indenyl.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent e.g. alkyl alkenyl alkynyl or cycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C C cycloalkyl means a saturated hydrocarbyl ring containing from 3 to 8 carbon ring atoms.

The term hydrogen alone or in combination with another term s means a hydrogen radical and may be depicted as H.

The term halogen or halo alone or in combination with another term s means a fluorine radical which may be depicted as F chlorine radical which may be depicted as Cl bromine radical which may be depicted as Br or iodine radical which may be depicted as I .

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen radical is in the place of hydrogen radical on a carbon or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent in which at least one non hydrogen radical is in the place of a hydrogen radical on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro radical and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro radicals. It should be recognized that if there are more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen radical may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen radicals that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen radicals or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen radicals then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen radicals as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. To illustrate tetrazolyl which has only one substitutable position would be optionally substituted with up to one non hydrogen radical. To illustrate further if an amino nitrogen is described as being optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals then a primary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to 2 non hydrogen radicals whereas a secondary amino nitrogen will be optionally substituted with up to only 1 non hydrogen radical.

The prefix halo indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more independently selected halogen radicals. For example haloalkyl means an alkyl substituent in which at least one hydrogen radical is replaced with a halogen radical. Examples of haloalkyls include chloromethyl 1 bromoethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl and 1 1 1 trifluoroethyl. It should be recognized that if a substituent is substituted by more than one halogen radical those halogen radicals may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

The prefix perhalo indicates that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is replaced with independently selected halogen radicals i.e. each hydrogen radical on the substituent is replaced with a halogen radical. If all the halogen radicals are identical the prefix typically will identify the halogen radical. Thus for example the term perfluoro means that every hydrogen radical on the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with a fluorine radical. To illustrate the term perfluoroalkyl means an alkyl substituent wherein a fluorine radical is in the place of each hydrogen radical.

The term oxy alone or in combination with another term s means an ether substituent and may be depicted as O .

The term alkyloxy alone or in combination with another term s means an alkylether substituent i.e. O alkyl. Examples of such a substituent include methoxy O CH ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy.

Similarly the term heterocyclylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl carbocyclyl.

Similarly the term heterocyclylalkylcarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O alkyl heterocyclyl.

The term carbocyclylalkyloxycarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means C O O alkyl carbocyclyl.

The term thio or thia alone or in combination with another term s means a thiaether substituent i.e. an ether substituent wherein a divalent sulfur atom is in the place of the ether oxygen atom. Such a substituent may be depicted as S . This for example alkyl thio alkyl means alkyl 5 alkyl alkyl sulfanyl alkyl .

The term thiol or sulfhydryl alone or in combination with another term s means a sulfhydryl substituent and may be depicted as SH.

The term thiocarbonyl alone or in combination with another term s means a carbonyl wherein the oxygen atom has been replaced with a sulfur. Such a substituent may be depicted as C S .

The term heterocyclyl alone or in combination with another term s means a saturated i.e. heterocycloalkyl partially saturated i.e. heterocycloalkenyl or completely unsaturated i.e. heteroaryl ring structure containing a total of 3 to 14 ring atoms. At least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. A heterocyclyl may be a single ring monocyclic or polycyclic ring structure.

A heterocyclyl may be a single ring which typically contains from 3 to 7 ring atoms more typically from 3 to 6 ring atoms and even more typically 5 to 6 ring atoms. Examples of single ring heterocyclyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl thiofuranyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl furazanyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxatriazolyl including 1 2 3 4 oxatriazolyl or 1 2 3 5 oxatriazolyl dioxazolyl including 1 2 3 dioxazolyl 1 2 4 dioxazolyl 1 3 2 dioxazolyl or 1 3 4 dioxazolyl oxathiazolyl oxathiolyl oxathiolanyl pyranyl dihydropyranyl thiopyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl pyridinyl azinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl 1 2 diazinyl pyrimidinyl 1 3 diazinyl or pyrazinyl 1 4 diazinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 2 4 triazinyl and 1 2 3 triazinyl oxazinyl including 1 2 oxazinyl 1 3 oxazinyl or 1 4 oxazinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxathiazinyl 1 2 4 oxathiazinyl 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazinyl 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl 1 4 2 oxadiazinyl or 1 3 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl azepinyl oxepinyl thiepinyl and diazepinyl.

A heterocyclyl may alternatively be polycyclic i.e. may contain more than one ring . Examples of polycyclic heterocyclyls include bridged fused and spirocyclic heterocyclyls. In a spirocyclic heterocyclyl one atom is common to two different rings. In a bridged heterocyclyl the rings share at least two common non adjacent atoms. In a fused ring heterocyclyl two or more rings may be fused together such that two rings share one common bond. Examples of fused ring heterocyclyls containing two or three rings include indolizinyl pyranopyrrolyl 4H quinolizinyl purinyl naphthyridinyl pyridopyridinyl including pyrido 3 4 b N pyridinyl pyrido 3 2 b N pyridinyl or pyrido 4 3 b N pyridinyl and pteridinyl. Other examples of fused ring heterocyclyls include benzo fused heterocyclyls such as indolyl isoindolyl isobenzazolyl pseudoisoindolyl indoleninyl pseudoindolyl isoindazolyl benzpyrazolyl benzazinyl including quinolinyl 1 benzazinyl or isoquinolinyl 2 benzazinyl phthalazinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl benzodiazinyl including cinnolinyl 1 2 benzodiazinyl or quinazolinyl 1 3 benzodiazinyl benzopyranyl including chromanyl or isochromanyl benzoxazinyl including 1 3 2 benzoxazinyl 1 4 2 benzoxazinyl 2 3 1 benzoxazinyl or 3 1 4 benzoxazinyl and benzisoxazinyl including 1 2 benzisoxazinyl or 1 4 benzisoxazinyl .

The term heteroaryl alone or in combination with another term s means an aromatic heterocyclyl containing from 5 to 14 ring atoms. A heteroaryl may be a single ring or 2 or 3 fused rings. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered ring substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and 1 3 5 1 2 4 or 1 2 3 triazinyl 5 membered ring substituents such as imidazyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl 6 5 membered fused ring substituents such as benzothiofuranyl benzisoxazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl and anthranilyl and 6 6 membered fused rings such as benzopyranyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl quinazolinyl and benzoxazinyl.

A prefix attached to a multi component substituent only applies to the first component. To illustrate the term alkylcycloalkyl contains two components alkyl and cycloalkyl. Thus the C C prefix on C C alkylcycloalkyl means that the alkyl component of the alkylcycloalkyl contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms the C C prefix does not describe the cycloalkyl component. To illustrate further the prefix halo on haloalkyloxyalkyl indicates that only the alkyloxy component of the alkyloxyalkyl substituent is substituted with one or more halogen radicals. If halogen substitution may alternatively or additionally occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as halogen substituted alkyloxyalkyl rather than haloalkyloxyalkyl. And finally if the halogen substitution may only occur on the alkyl component the substituent would instead be described as alkyloxyhaloalkyl. 

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of the compound being administered sufficient to prevent development of or alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated.

The term modulate refers to the ability of a compound to increase or decrease the function or activity of a kinase. Modulation as used herein in its various forms is intended to encompass antagonism agonism partial antagonism and or partial agonism of the activity associated with kinase. Kinase inhibitors are compounds that e.g. bind to partially or totally block stimulation decrease prevent delay activation inactivate desensitize or down regulate signal transduction. Kinase activators are compounds that e.g. bind to stimulate increase open activate facilitate enhance activation sensitize or up regulate signal transduction.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The subject is defined herein to include animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

Rand Rare independently hydrogen hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl C alkenyl aryl heteroaryl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR wherein the C alkenyl can be optionally substituted with and wherein the aryl or heteroaryl can be optionally substituted with one or more R 

Y is NRR NRC O R NRSOR aryl or heteroaryl wherein the aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris hydrogen or C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR and SONRNR 

or Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the heterocycloalkyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more R 

Ris selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen oxo cyano nitro OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR B OH CF CFCF OCF and OCFCFwherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR and wherein b the Raryl or heterocyclyl substituents are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR NHSOR C O NRR SR S O R SOR SONRNR CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF 

Ris hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl C cycloalkyl C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl aryl C alkyl heteroaryl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the RC alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl substituents alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl alone or as part of another group are optionally substituted with one or more R 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

R at each occurrence is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl and optionally Rand Rcan be joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the C alkyl C alkenyl C alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl and 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein aryl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl and

R at each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of hydroxy C alkoxy CN halogen C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein the C alkyl heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl aryl heterocyclyl C cycloalkyl halogen cyano oxo hydroxy C alkoxy NH NH C alkyl and N C alkyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In one embodiment of formula I Rand Rare each hydrogen. In another embodiment Ris hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR. In another embodiment Ris hydrogen and Ris hydroxy nitro halogen cyano trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy C alkyl OR NRR C O OR C O NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR or NHSOR.

In another embodiment of formula I X is CRwherein Ris hydrogen or methyl. In yet another embodiment Ris hydrogen.

In one embodiment of formula I Y is aryl or heteroaryl. In another embodiment the aryl or heteroaryl groups are unsubstituted. In yet another embodiment aryl or heteroaryl groups are substituted with one two or three R.

In yet another embodiment of formula I Y is a heteroaryl group selected from the group consisting of furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl and pyrazinyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Y is a phenyl group. Preferably where Y is a substituted phenyl the phenyl is substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of fluoro chloro methyl ethyl methoxy ethoxy CF CFCF OCF OCFCF and cyano.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris optionally substituted C alkyl or optionally substituted C alkenyl. In one embodiment the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is substituted with one or two substituents as defined above. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. More preferably the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Where Ris optionally substituted C alkyl then preferably Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl t butyl 3 methylbutan 1 yl pentyl neopentyl or 4 4 dimethylpentan 1 yl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris aryl or heteroaryl. In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In yet another embodiment Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl and more preferably pyridinyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris an optionally substituted C cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl. In one embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is substituted with one or two R. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Where Ris optionally substituted C cycloalkyl then preferably Ris cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. More preferably Ris cyclohexyl.

Where Ris optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl then preferably Ris an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl and 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. Preferably Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two R wherein the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Preferably where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl and more preferably C alkyl .

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl and preferably pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment where Ris heteroarylaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment the Rheteroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl and more preferably pyridinyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula I Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula I Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl or t butyl. Where Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl then preferably Ris methyl. In another embodiment of formula I Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with ORor NRR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Rand Rcan be joined together to form a heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the heterocycloalkyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two R.

Preferably the one or two substituents independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

In one embodiment where Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl the heterocycloalkyl is azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl and preferably pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula I Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain C alkyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris optionally substituted C alkyl. In one embodiment the RC alkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC alkyl is substituted with one or two substituents as defined above. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. More preferably the RC alkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris aryl or heteroaryl. In one embodiment of formula I Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula I Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In yet another embodiment Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl and more preferably pyridinyl.

In one embodiment of formula I Ris an optionally substituted C cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl. In one embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is substituted with one or two R. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Where Ris optionally substituted C cycloalkyl then preferably Ris cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. More preferably Ris cyclohexyl.

Where Ris optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl then preferably Ris an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl and 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. Preferably Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula I Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two R wherein the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Preferably where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl and more preferably C alkyl .

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl and preferably pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl chloro fluoro cyano OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR C O NRR SONRNR nitro CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one two or three R wherein Ris independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl chloro fluoro cyano OR C O OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR C O NRR SONRNR nitro CF CFCF OCF and OCFCF wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R and benzyl wherein Z is a bond wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R and benzyl wherein Z is a bond wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Ris hydrogen wherein Z is a bond and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the RC cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the RC cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Raryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Raryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heteroycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRR wherein Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRR wherein Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Z is a bond wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R and benzyl wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C alkyl wherein the C alkyl is optionally substituted one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R and benzyl wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl wherein the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein Ris hydrogen and wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris aryl wherein the aryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the RC cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the RC cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Raryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris aryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Raryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heteroycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is CR Ris hydrogen Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds of formula I wherein Rand Rare hydrogen X is N Y is NRC O Ror NRSOR wherein Ris heteroaryl C alkyl wherein the R C alkyl is unsubstituted wherein the Rheteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of C alkyl oxo cyano halogen OR NRR NRC O R and NHSOR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl phenyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl and pyridinyl and wherein Ris hydrogen.

Another aspect of the invention provides compounds of formula II wherein R R R Rand Rare as defined generally and in subsets above.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris optionally substituted C alkyl or optionally substituted C alkenyl. In one embodiment the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is substituted with one or two substituents as defined above. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of oxo OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl. More preferably the RC alkyl or C alkenyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Where Ris optionally substituted C alkyl then preferably Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl t butyl 3 methylbutan 1 yl pentyl neopentyl or 4 4 dimethylpentan 1 yl.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris aryl or heteroaryl. In one embodiment of formula II Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment of formula II Ris a 5 7 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with one or more R. In yet another embodiment Ris furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl and more preferably pyridinyl.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris an optionally substituted C cycloalkyl or an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl. In one embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is substituted with one or two R. Preferably the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Where Ris optionally substituted C cycloalkyl then preferably Ris cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl. More preferably Ris cyclohexyl.

Where Ris optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl then preferably Ris an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl and 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl. Preferably Ris pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In another embodiment of formula II Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl wherein a the R C alkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen cyano nitro oxo OR C O R C O OR OC O R NRR NRC O R NHC O NHR C O NRR NHSOR SONRNR and benzyl and b the RC cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more R.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the R C alkyl is unsubstituted.

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is unsubstituted. In another embodiment the Rcycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or two R wherein the one or two substituents are independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the RC cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

Preferably where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl heterocycloalkyl C alkyl aryl C alkyl or heteroaryl C alkyl the C alkyl is C alkyl C alkyl or C alkyl and more preferably C alkyl .

In one embodiment where Ris C cycloalkyl C alkyl the C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.

In one embodiment where Ris heterocycloalkyl C alkyl the heterocycloalkyl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heterocycloalkyl. In another embodiment the Rheterocycicoalkyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl piperazinyl dioxanyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl and preferably pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

In one embodiment where Ris heteroarylaryl C alkyl the heteroaryl is an optionally substituted 5 7 membered heteroaryl. In yet another embodiment the Rheteroaryl is furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiodiazolyl oxadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazinyl and more preferably pyridinyl.

In one embodiment of formula II Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of formula II Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl. In yet another embodiment of formula II Ris methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl or t butyl. Where Ris an unsubstituted branched or straight chain Calkyl then preferably Ris methyl. In another embodiment of formula II Ris a substituted branched or straight chain Calkyl wherein the C alkyl is substituted with ORor NRR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H and C alkyl.

In one embodiment of formula II Rand Rcan be joined together to form a heterocycloalkyl ring wherein the heterocycloalkyl ring is optionally substituted with one or more R. In another embodiment Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the heterocycloalkyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or two R.

Preferably the one or two substituents independently selected from the groups consisting of C alkyl halogen OR NRR NRC O R NHSOR and SONRNR wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H C alkyl C cycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl phenyl and pyridinyl. More preferably the heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydroxy methoxy ethoxy amino NHCH NHCOCH NHSOCH and SONHCH.

In one embodiment for formula II where Rand Rare joined together to form a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl the heterocycloalkyl is azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl 2 5 dioxopyrrolidinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 4 oxopiperidinyl or 2 6 dioxopiperidinyl and preferably pyrrolidinyl tetrhydrofuryl piperidinyl or tetrahydropyranyl.

Specific embodiments contemplated as part of the invention include but are not limited to compounds of formula I for example 

Compounds of this invention may contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms in the R or S configuration wherein the terms R and S are as defined in Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 10. Compounds having asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms with equal amounts of R and S configurations are racemic at those atoms. Atoms having excess of one configuration over the other are assigned the configuration in excess preferably an excess of about 85 90 more preferably an excess of about 95 99 and still more preferably an excess greater than about 99 . Accordingly this invention is meant to embrace racemic mixtures and relative and absolute diastereoisomers of the compounds thereof.

Compounds of this invention may also contain carbon carbon double bonds or carbon nitrogen double bonds in the E or Z configuration wherein the term E represents higher order substituents on opposite sides of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond and the term Z represents higher order substituents on the same side of the carbon carbon or carbon nitrogen double bond as determined by the Cahn Ingold Prelog Priority Rules. The compounds of this invention may also exist as a mixture of E and Z isomers.

Additional geometric isomers may exist in the present compounds. For example the invention contemplates the various geometric isomers and mixtures thereof resulting from the disposition of substituents around a cycloalkyl group or a heterocycle group. Substituents around a cycloalkyl or a heterocycle are designated as being of cis or trans configuration.

Compounds of this invention may also exist as tautomers or equilibrium mixtures thereof wherein a proton of a compound shifts from one atom to another. Examples of tautomers include but are not limited to keto enol phenol keto oxime nitroso nitro aci imine enamine and the like.

This invention also is directed in part to all salts of the compounds of formula I . A salt of a compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s properties such as for example enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or other solvents. Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being in use in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable and or physiologically compatible. The term pharmaceutically acceptable is used adjectivally in this patent application to mean that the modified noun is appropriate for use as a pharmaceutical product or as a part of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts commonly used to form alkali metal salts and to form addition salts of free acids or free bases. In general these salts typically may be prepared by conventional means by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with a compound of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of formula I can be prepared from an inorganic or organic acid. Examples of often suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids. Specific examples of often suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilic acid mesylate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sulfanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid beta hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate oxalate palmoate pectinate 2 naphthalesulfonate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of the compounds of formula I include for example metallic salts and organic salts. Preferred metallic salts include alkali metal group Ia salts alkaline earth metal group IIa salts and other physiologically acceptable metal salts. Such salts may be made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc. Preferred organic salts can be made from amines such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

Compounds of formula I and salts thereof with any level of purity including pure and substantially pure are within the scope of Applicants invention. The term substantially pure in reference to a compound salt isomer means that the preparation composition containing the compound salt isomer contains more than about 85 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 90 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 95 by weight of the compound salt isomer preferably more than about 97 by weight of the compound salt isomer and preferably more than about 99 by weight of the compound salt isomer.

Compounds of this invention may be made by synthetic chemical processes examples of which are shown herein. It is meant to be understood that the order of the steps in the processes may be varied that reagents solvents and reaction conditions may be substituted for those specifically mentioned and that vulnerable moieties may be protected and deprotected as necessary.

Protecting groups for C O OH moieties include but are not limited to acetoxymethyl allyl benzoylmethyl benzyl benzyloxymethyl tert butyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl diphenylmethyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl cyclopentyl cyclopropyl diphenylmethylsilyl ethyl para methoxybenzyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl methyl methylthiomethyl naphthyl para nitrobenzyl phenyl n propyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl triphenylmethyl and the like.

Protecting groups for C O and C O H moieties include but are not limited to 1 3 dioxylketal diethylketal dimethylketal 1 3 dithianylketal O methyloxime O phenyloxime and the like.

Protecting groups for NH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl alanyl benzoyl benzyl phenylmethyl benzylidene benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz tert butoxycarbonyl Boc 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl diphenylmethyl diphenylphosphoryl formyl methanesulfonyl para methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl phenylacetyl phthaloyl succinyl trichloroethoxycarbonyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl trimethylsilyl triphenylmethyl triphenylsilyl para toluenesulfonyl and the like.

Protecting groups for OH and SH moieties include but are not limited to acetyl allyl allyloxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz benzoyl benzyl tert butyl tert butyldimethylsilyl tert butyldiphenylsilyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl 1 1 dimethyl 2 propenyl diphenylmethyl formyl methanesulfonyl methoxyacetyl 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl para methoxybenzyl methoxycarbonyl methyl para toluenesulfonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl triethylsilyl trifluoroacetyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl triphenylmethyl 2 triphenylphosphonio ethoxycarbonyl and the like.

The present compounds may be prepared by a variety of processes well known for the preparation of compounds of this class. For example the compounds of formula I wherein the groups X Y R R R R and n have the meanings as set forth in the summary unless otherwise noted can be synthesized according to the general methods described in Schemes 1 4 using appropriate starting materials by methods generally available to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Abbreviations which have been used in the descriptions of the Schemes and the Examples that follow are DMF for N N dimethylformamide DMSO for dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO dfor deuteriated dimethyl sulfoxide DME for dimethoxyethane dppf for 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene EtO for diethyl ether EtOAc for ethyl acetate EtN for triethylamine Ts for toluene sulfonyl and THF for tetrahydrofuran.

Diazaindoles of formula I wherein Xis Ts or benzene sulfonyl can be treated with heteroaryls of formula 2 wherein Xis iodo bromo or chloro to provide compounds of general formula I wherein Y is NRRas shown in Scheme 1. This reaction may be performed in the presence of a palladium catalyst and a base at elevated temperature e.g. at about 70 C. to about 150 C. and in a suitable solvent such as DMF dioxane ethanol water DME or mixtures thereof optionally in the presence of a ligand such as but not limited to tri o tolylphosphine and optionally under microwave irradiation. Non limiting examples of suitable palladium catalysts include tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and bis tri tert butylphosphine palladium 0 . Suitable bases include but are not limited to triethylamine sodium carbonate potassium acetate cesium carbonate and cesium fluoride. In certain cases the protecting group Xof the diazaindole obtained may be spontaneously removed during the reaction. In other cases the conversion of compounds of formula 3 wherein Xis Ts or benzene sulfonyl may be converted to compounds of formula 3 wherein Xis hydrogen may be facilitated by treatment of the crude material with potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide in dioxane or an alcoholic solvent such as methanol or a mixture of water and methanol at about room temperature to about reflux temperature of the solvent employed.

Heteroaryls of formula 2 can be prepared by treating 2a with amines of formula N H RRor salt thereof. The reaction can be conducted in a suitable solvent e.g. dioxane DMF or mixtures thereof or in excess of the amines employed at a temperature from about 60 C. to about 150 C. optionally in the presence of a base e.g. triethylamine diisopropylethyl amine and optionally under microwave irradiation.

The diazaindoles of formula I can be prepared from the corresponding diazaindoles by a brominating the corresponding diazaindoles with a brominating agent such as but not limited to N bromosuccinimide in a suitable solvent e.g. THF 2 protecting the product of step a with benzenesulfonyl chloride or tosyl chloride in the presence of a base e.g. sodium hydride n butyl lithium sodium or potassium hydroxide and in a suitable solvent e.g. DMF THF to provide compounds of formula 1a and 3 treating 1a with hexamethyldistannane in the presence of a palladium catalyst e.g. tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 and a base e.g. potassium acetate at a temperature from about 70 C. to about 150 C. in a suitable solvent such as toluene and optionally under microwave irradiation.

Alternatively compounds of general formula I wherein Y is NRRcan be synthesized as shown in Scheme 2.

Compounds of formula 4 can be prepared by treating diazaindoles of formula I with heteroaryls of formula 2a using reaction conditions described for the transformation of 1 to 3 as described in Scheme 1.

Conversion of 4 to amines of formula 3 wherein Xis Ts or benzene sulfonyl can be achieved either by utilizing again the reaction conditions as described for the transformation of 1 to 3 or by direct displacement of the chloro group with amines of formula N H RRemploying reaction conditions such as those described for the transformation of 2a to 2 . The protecting group Xcan be removed either in situ or by treatment with sodium or potassium hydroxide as described in Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 depicts yet another general procedure for the synthesis of compounds of general formula I wherein Y is NRR.

Treatment of compounds of formula 2 with bis pincolato diboron in the presence of a palladium catalyst e.g. dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II PdCl dppf and a base e.g. sodium carbonate potassium acetate at a temperature from about 70 C. to about 150 C. in a suitable solvent such as THF DMF dichloromethane or mixtures thereof and optionally under microwave irradiation provides compounds of formula 5 .

Coupling of compounds of formula 5 with diazaindoles of formula 1a to provide compounds of formula 3 wherein Xis hydrogen can be conducted using the above mentioned reaction conditions as described in Scheme 1.

Compounds of general formula I wherein Y is N R C O R Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris alkyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl or aryl each of which is optionally substituted as described in the Summary may be prepared utilizing general methods as shown in Scheme 4.

Coupling of compounds of formula 4 wherein Xis Ts or benzene sulfonyl with amides of formula RC O N H R in the presence of a palladium catalyst e.g. palladium acetate II a suitable base e.g. cesium carbonate and a ligand e.g. Xantphos at a temperature from about 70 C. to about 150 C. and optionally under microwave irradiation provides compounds of formula 3 wherein X101 is Ts or benzene sulfonyl. The protecting group X is either removed in situ during coupling or removed by treatment of the resulting crude material with sodium or potassium hydroxide.

It is appreciated that routine experimentations including appropriate manipulation of the reaction conditions reagents and sequence of the synthetic route protection of any chemical functionality that may not be compatible with the reaction conditions and deprotection at a suitable point in the reaction sequence of the method are included in the scope of the invention. Suitable protecting groups and the methods for protecting and deprotecting different substituents using such suitable protecting groups are well known to those skilled in the art examples of which may be found in T. Greene and P. Wuts Protecting Groups in Chemical Synthesis 3ed. John Wiley Sons NY 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Synthesis of the compounds of the invention may be accomplished by methods analogous to those described in the synthetic schemes described herein above and in specific examples.

Starting materials if not commercially available may be prepared by procedures selected from standard organic chemical techniques e.g. alkylation acylation reductive amination sulfonylation oxidation reduction and the like that are analogous to the synthesis of known structurally similar compounds or techniques that are analogous to the above described schemes or the procedures described in the synthetic examples section.

Unless otherwise noted microwave reactions described herein were carried out either in a Biotage Initiator 8 or in a CEM Explorer at 200 W.

In another aspect the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for modulating kinase activity in a humans and animals that will typically contain a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Compounds having formula I may be administered for example bucally ophthalmically orally osmotically parenterally intramuscularly intraperintoneally intrasternally intravenously subcutaneously rectally topically transdermally vaginally and intraarterially as well as by intraarticular injection infusion and placement in the body such as for example the vasculature.

Compounds having formula I may be administered with or without an excipient. Excipients include but are not limited to encapsulators and additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents mixtures thereof and the like.

Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered orally include but are not limited to agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl celluose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered ophthalmically or orally include but are not limited to 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered osmotically include but are not limited to chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered parenterally include but are not limited to 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water mixtures thereof and the like. Excipients for preparation of compositions comprising a compound having formula I to be administered rectally or vaginally include but are not limited to cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax mixtures thereof and the like.

The pharmaceutical composition and the method of the present invention may further comprise other therapeutically active compounds as noted herein which are usually applied in the treatment of the above mentioned pathological conditions.

In another aspect the present invention provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention to treat or prevent a disease or condition involving mediation overexpression or disregulation of kinases in a mammal. In particular compounds of this invention are expected to have utility in treatment of diseases or conditions during which protein kinases such as any or all CDC 7 family members are expressed.

In one group of embodiments diseases and conditions of humans or other animals that can be treated with inhibitors of kinases include but are not limited to acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myleogeneous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma follicular lymphoma germ cell testicular cancer glioma heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma liposarcoma lung cancer lymphagioendotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia lymphoma medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma non small cell lung cancer oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas small cell lung cancer stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma thyroid cancer Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor.

The methods of the present invention typically involve administering to a subject in need of therapeutic treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I . Therapeutically effective amounts of a compound having formula I depend on recipient of treatment disease treated and severity thereof composition comprising it time of administration route of administration duration of treatment potency rate of clearance and whether or not another drug is co administered. The amount of a compound having formula I used to make a composition to be administered daily to a patient in a single dose or in divided doses is from about 0.03 to about 200 mg kg body weight. Single dose compositions contain these amounts or a combination of submultiples thereof.

The present invention further provides methods of using a compound or composition of the invention in combination with one or more additional active agents.

Compounds having formula I are expected to be useful when used with alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives other apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies aurora kinase inhibitors biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVD s leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAP s intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors retinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNA s topoisomerase inhibitors combinations thereof and the like.

A BiTE antibody is a bi specific antibody that directs T cells to attach cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Exemplary BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like.

SiRNA s are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications shall not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides or a combination thereof. The siRNA can have varying lengths 10 200 bps and structures hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and processed in the cell to provide active gene silencing. In certain embodiments a double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand.

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. The multivalent binding protein is preferably engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and is generally not a naturally occurring antibody. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens. DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA metrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Bcl 2 proteins inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax and the like. Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors include DASATINIB BMS 354825 GLEEVEC imatinib and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include ApoMab a fully human affinity matured IgG1 monoclonal antibody antibodies that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. pro apoptotic receptor agonists DR4 and DRS conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and tratuzumab.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin and the like.

Thrombospondin analogs include ABT 510 ABT 567 TSP 1 and the like. VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like. Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN 90Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofuran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Compounds of this invention can also be used as radiosensitizeser that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachtherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally compounds having formula I may be combined with other chemptherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly C12U a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin 0 Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECIN rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paditaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

A mixture of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 5 g 18.3 mmol and cyclohexylamine 18.1 g 183 mmol was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave at 150 C. for 30 min. Ethyl acetate 150 mL was added and the mixture washed with water 100 mL and brine 50 mL . The organics were concentrated and the residual oil purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound. Yield 4.7 g 76 . MS DCI NH m z 337 M H .

A solution of EXAMPLE 1A 2.4 g 7.13 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 2.72 g 10.7 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II adduct with dichloromethane 291 mg 0.397 mmol and potassium acetate 1.05 g 10.7 mmol in N N dimethylformamide DMF 30 mL was heated at 90 C. for 3 h. After cooling diethyl ether was added and the mixture washed with water 100 mL and brine 50 mL . The organics were concentrated and the residual oil purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound. Yield 2.3 g 96 . MS DCI NH m z 337 M H .

To a solution of 5 bromo 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyridine Ark Pharm Inc. 2.14 g 10.81 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 20 mL at 0 C. was added sodium hydroxide 519 mg 12.97 mmol and stirred for 20 min. Benzenesulfonyl chloride 1.46 mL 11.35 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for 3 h. After quenching with water the precipitated solid was filtered and dried to provide the title compound. Yield 2.92 g 80 . MS DCI NH m z 339 M H .

To a suspension of EXAMPLE 1B 119 mg 0.36 mmol EXAMPLE 1C 100 mg 0.3 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II adduct with dichloromethane 49 mg 0.06 mmol in 3 mL of a mixture of 7 3 2 dimethoxyethane water ethanol was added aqueous sodium carbonate 2M solution 0.18 mL 0.36 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave at 150 C. for 20 min. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 5 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the title compound. This was further purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid acetonitrile water to yield the title compound. Yield 11 mg 11 . MS DCI NH m z 328 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.13 1.41 m 5H 1.54 1.65 m 1H 1.68 1.80 m 2H 1.86 1.99 m 2H 3.60 3.74 m 1H 6.89 s 1H 7.23 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 8.34 d J 2.78 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.78 Hz 1H 8.57 d J 3.17 Hz 1H 12.52 s 1H .

A suspension of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 6 g 21.9 mmol and trans 4 aminocyclohexanol 5.05 g 43.8 mmol in 15 mL of a 1 4 mixture of N N dimethylformamide 1 4 dioxane was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave at 200 C. for 55 min. Ethyl acetate 150 mL was added and the mixture washed with water 100 mL and brine 50 mL . The organics were concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 60 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound. Yield 3.8 g 49 . MS DCI NH m z 353 M H .

A flask was charged with EXAMPLE 1C 3.88 g 11.47 mmol and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 1.33 g 1.15 mmol and purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous toluene 30 mL and hexamethyldistannane 3.57 mL 17.21 mmol were added and the flask was purged with nitrogen again and heated at 115 C. for 4 h. After cooling the mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes to provide the title compound. Yield 4.29 g 89 . MS DCI NH m z 423 M H .

To a flask charged with EXAMPLE 2A 3.58 g 10.16 mmol EXAMPLE 2B 4.29 g 10.16 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 803 mg 0.88 mmol tri o tolylphosphine 801 mg 2.63 mmol under nitrogen was added anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 30 mL and triethylamine 4.25 mL 30.5 mmol . The flask was purged with nitrogen and heated at 70 C. for 6 h. After cooling ethyl acetate was added and the mixture washed with water 100 mL and brine 100 mL . The organics were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dioxane 30 mL and treated with sodium hydroxide 1.63 g 40.6 mmol at 90 C. for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 20 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the title compound. The resulting material was treated with 1M hydrochloric acid solution in diethyl ether to yield the title compound as the hydrochloride salt. Yield 2.0 g 57 . MS DCI NH m z 344 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.18 1.36 m 4H 1.81 1.97 m 4H 3.38 3.48 m 1H 3.55 3.66 m 1H 6.81 br s 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 8.34 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.59 d J 3.17 Hz 1H 12.54 s 1H .

A mixture of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 1 g 3.65 mmol and tert butyl 3 aminopiperidine 1 carboxylate 3.66 g 18 mmol in a sealed tube was heated at 120 C. for 3 days. After cooling the mixture was poured into 100 mL of water. The solid was collected by filtration and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide 680 mg of the title compound. Yield 43 . MS DCI NH m z 438 M H .

A 100 mL round bottle flask was charged with EXAMPLE 2B 120 mg 0.28 mmol EXAMPLE 3A 124 mg 0.28 mmol bis tri t butylphosphine palladium 0 15 mg 0.028 mmol and cesium fluoride 22 mg 0.14 mmol and purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous dioxane 10 mL was added via syringe. The solution was purged with nitrogen and heated at 80 C. overnight. After cooling the mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The crude compound was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide 100 mg of the title compound. Yield 62 . MS DCI NH m z 570 M H .

A solution of EXAMPLE 3B 100 mg 0.2 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL at ambient temperature for 30 min. The mixture was concentrated and the residue dissolved in ethanol 5 mL . A solution of potassium hydroxide 19 mg 0.35 mmol in water 0.2 mL was added and the solution heated at 50 C. for 3 h. After cooling the mixture was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to yield the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 30 mg 52 . MS DCI NH m z 329 M H H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 1.62 1.79 m 1H 1.78 1.98 m 1H 2.01 2.21 m 2H 2.86 3.09 m 3H 3.61 dd J 12.21 3.73 Hz 1H 4.12 4.25 m 1H 7.33 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.49 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 8.28 s 1H 8.30 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.50 d J 2.37 Hz 1H .

The trifluoroacetate salt of the title compound was isolated as a byproduct in the synthesis of EXAMPLE 3. Yield 15 mg 24 . MS DCI NH m z 357 M H H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 1.37 t J 7.46 Hz 3H 1.51 1.68 m 1H 1.79 2.04 m 1H 2.05 2.23 m 2H 2.62 t J 11.36 Hz 1H 2.82 3.23 m 2H 3.23 q J 7.46 Hz 2 H 3.48 3.64 m 1H 4.17 4.31 m 1H 7.33 d J 1.02 Hz 1H 7.48 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 8.28 s 1H 8.29 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.49 d J 2.71 Hz 1H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 3C 20 mg 0.061 mmol in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 1 mL was added cyclopropane carboxylic acid 7 mg 0.073 mmol 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC 14 mg 0.073 mmol 1 hydroxybenzotriazole monohydrate HOBT 11 mg 0.073 mmol and triethylamine 6 mg 0.061 mmol . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature overnight and the crude compound purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 18 mg 75 . MS DCI NH m z 397 M H H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 0.61 0.73 m 1H 0.73 0.86 m 2H 0.86 0.97 m 2H 1.52 1.76 m 2H 1.78 1.96 m 1H 2.04 2.19 m 2H 2.93 3.22 m 1H 3.75 3.93 m 1H 3.96 4.10 m 1H 4.32 4.50 m 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 8.29 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.50 d J 2.71 Hz 1H .

To a solution of tert butyl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 1.5 g 7.5 mmol in pyridine 20 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 1.0 g 9 mmol . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 5 h and partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide the BOC protected intermediate.

The product from STEP A was dissolved in dichloromethane 150 mL and treated with trifluoroacetic acid 5 mL at ambient temperature overnight. Concentration afforded the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 1.1 g 82 . MS DCI NH m z 179 M H .

A mixture of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 500 mg 1.8 mmol and EXAMPLE 6A 976 mg 5.5 mmol in ethanol 2 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 180 C. for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title compound. Yield 150 mg 20 . MS DCI NH m z 416 M H .

A round bottom flask was charged with EXAMPLE 6B 80 mg 0.2 mmol EXAMPLE 2B 89 mg 0.21 mmol bis tri t butylphosphine palladium 0 10 mg 0.02 mmol and CsF 29 mg 0.19 mmol and purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous dioxane 10 mL was added and the solution purged with nitrogen and heated at 80 C. overnight. After cooling the mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 70 ethyl acetate in hexanes. The compound was dissolved in 2 mL of ethanol and treated with potassium hydroxide 45 mg 0.8 mmol in water 0.2 mL at 50 C. for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was diluted with 10 mL of ethyl acetate. The compound was collected by filtration and washed with ethyl acetate to provide 25 mg of the title compound. Yield 32 . MS DCI NH m z 407 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.35 1.55 m 1H 1.52 1.71 m 1H 1.76 1.97 m 2H 2.54 2.69 m 1H 2.74 2.86 m 1H 2.88 s 3H 3.33 3.47 m 1H 3.57 3.75 m 1H 3.79 3.99 m 1H 7.06 d J 7.46 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 1.02 Hz 1H 7.55 d J 1.02 Hz 1H 8.33 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.51 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.59 s 1H 12.54 s 1H .

A mixture of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 1 g 3.65 mmol and trans cyclohexane 1 4 diamine 2 g 18 mmol in ethanol 2 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 180 C. for 4 h. After cooling the mixture was poured into water and the solid collected by filtration and washed with water to give the title compound. Yield 1.02 g 79 . MS DCI NH m z 352 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 7A for EXAMPLE 6B. The material was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 30 mg 57 . MS DCI NH m z 343 M H H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 1.27 1.47 m 2H 1.50 1.67 m 2H 2.10 dd J 12.37 1.86 Hz 2H 2.22 dd J 13.39 3.56 Hz 2H 3.03 3.20 m 1H 3.68 3.90 m 1H 7.25 d J 1.36 Hz 1H 7.40 d J 1.02 Hz 1H 8.28 s 1H 8.29 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.49 d J 2.71 Hz 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 5 substituting EXAMPLE 7A for EXAMPLE 3C. The crude compound was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide 130 mg of the title compound. Yield 78 . MS DCI NH m z 420 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 8A for EXAMPLE 6B. Yield 45 mg 37 . MS DCI NH m z 411 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.55 0.71 m 4H 1.21 1.37 m 4H 1.44 1.59 m 1H 1.82 d J 2.38 Hz 2H 1.92 2.06 m 2H 3.15 3.31 m 1H 3.45 3.71 m 1H 6.87 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.95 d J 7.54 Hz 1H 8.33 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.51 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.58 s 1H 12.53 s 1H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 7A 130 mg 0.37 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added formaldehyde 150 mg 1.8 mmol at ambient temperature. The solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 10 min and sodium cyanoborohydride 23 mg 0.37 mmol and zinc chloride 10 mg 0.07 mmol were added. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature overnight and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 10 methanol with 5 ammonium hydroxide in dichloromethane to give the title compound. Yield 130 mg 93 . MS DCI NH m z 380 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 9A for EXAMPLE 6B. The crude product was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 30 mg 23 . MS DCI NH m z 371 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.17 1.39 m 2H 1.49 1.68 m 2H 1.92 2.18 m 4H 2.75 s 6H 3.06 3.31 m 1H 3.45 3.63 m 1H 6.98 s 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.50 s 1 H 8.35 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.59 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.54 s 1 H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6A substituting tert butyl piperidin 3 ylmethylcarbamate for tert butyl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Yield 380 mg 42 . MS DCI NH m z 193 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 6B substituting EXAMPLE 10A for EXAMPLE 6A. Yield 80 mg 51 . MS DCI NH m z 430 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 10B for EXAMPLE 6B. Yield 20 mg 25 . MS DCI NH m z 421 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.02 1.32 m 2H 1.33 1.58 m 1H 1.68 1.96 m 2H 2.49 2.59 m 1H 2.62 2.77 m 1H 2.83 s 3H 3.05 3.28 m 2H 3.40 3.51 m 1H 3.58 3.66 m 1H 7.12 s 1H 7.28 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 8.35 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.53 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.61 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.54 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 7A substituting cyclohexane 1 3 diamine for trans cyclohexane 1 4 diamine. Yield 1.1 g 86 . MS DCI NH m z 352 M H 

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 5 substituting EXAMPLE 11A for EXAMPLE 3C. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide 100 mg of the title compound. Yield 84 . MS DCI NH m z 420 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 11B for EXAMPLE 6B. Yield 29 mg 27 . MS DCI NH m z 411 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.50 0.73 m 4H 0.97 1.22 m 3H 1.25 1.43 m 1H 1.43 1.56 m 1H 1.64 1.84 m 2H 1.83 1.98 m 1H 1.99 2.17 m 1H 3.52 3.79 m 2H 6.80 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.38 s 1H 7.97 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.40 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.54 s 1H 12.54 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 9A substituting EXAMPLE 11A for EXAMPLE 7A. Yield 100 mg 93 . MS DCI NH m z 380 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 12A for EXAMPLE 6B. The crude product was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 33 mg 34 . MS DCI NH m z 371 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.16 1.37 m 2H 1.36 1.57 m 1H 1.77 2.07 m 2H 2.67 2.81 m 3H 2.94 s 3H 2.98 s 3H 3.23 3.55 m 2H 7.14 s 1H 7.27 s 1 H 7.53 d J 8.48 Hz 1H 8.35 s 1H 8.53 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.60 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.57 s 1H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 11A 100 mg 0.3 mmol in pyridine 5 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 50 mg 0.4 mmol . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 5 h and partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide the title compound. Yield 100 mg 82 . MS DCI NH m z 430 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 13A for EXAMPLE 6B. Yield 20 mg 20 . MS DCI NH m z 421 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.99 1.25 m 3H 1.27 1.47 m 1H 1.67 1.79 m 1H 1.83 1.94 m 2H 2.13 2.27 m 1H 2.92 s 3H 3.11 3.35 m 1H 3.59 3.81 m 1H 6.93 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 7.07 d J 7.46 Hz 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 8.33 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.51 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.58 s 1H 12.51 s 1H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 2B 1.154 g 2.73 mmol 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 0.824 g 3.01 mmol triethylamine 1.14 mL 8.20 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.175 g 0.191 mmol and tri o tolylphosphine 0.250 g 0.820 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 40 mL was degassed and heated at 90 C. for 3.5 h. After cooling the mixture was filtered and water added to the filtrate. The resulting precipitate was filtered washed with water dried and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with a gradient of 97.5 2.5 to 95 5 dichloromethane ethyl acetate to give 0.796 g 72 of the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 14A 0.050 g 0.123 mmol pentanamide 0.016 g 0.160 mmol cesium carbonate 0.052 g 0.160 mmol palladium II acetate 1.385 mg 6.17 mol and 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene Xantphos 5.35 mg 9.25 mol in dioxane 1.2 mL and N N dimethylformamide 0.1 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 170 C. for 10 min. The solids were filtered and the filtrate concentrated. The residue was suspended in dioxane 1 mL and treated with 20 sodium hydroxide 0.1 mL . The mixture was heated at 50 C. for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue treated with water sonicated filtered and purified by reversed phase HPLC Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 to 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 40 min at a flow rate of 15 mL minute to give 4.2 mg of the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO D 0.89 t J 7.3 Hz 3H 1.25 1.36 m 2H 1.50 1.62 m 2H 2.40 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 8.00 s 1H 8.36 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.57 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.67 d J 3.4 Hz 1H 8.95 s 1H 10.61 s 1H 12.70 s 1H . MS ESI m z 330.5 M H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 14A 0.100 g 0.247 mmol nicotinamide 0.036 g 0.296 mmol cesium carbonate 0.080 g 0.247 mmol palladium II acetate 2.77 mg 0.012 mmol and Xantphos 10.71 mg 0.019 mmol in dioxane 2.4 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 170 C. for 10 min. The solids were filtered and the filtrate concentrated. The residue was suspended in dioxane 2 mL treated with 20 sodium hydroxide 0.2 mL and heated at 50 C. for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue treated with water sonicated filtered and purified by reversed phase HPLC Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 to 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 40 min at a flow rate of 15 mL minute to give 9.0 mg of the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO D 7.62 dd J 7.9 4.88 Hz 1H 8.11 s 1H 8.38 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.42 8.47 m 1H 8.59 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.77 d J 3.1 Hz 1H 8.79 dd J 4.9 1.5 Hz 1H 9.11 s 1H 9.19 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 11.29 s 1H 12.75 s 1H . MS ESI m z 351.5 M H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 14A 0.050 g 0.123 mmol tert butyl 4 carbamoylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 0.034 g 0.148 mmol cesium carbonate 0.040 g 0.123 mmol palladium II acetate 1.385 mg 6.17 mol and Xantphos 5.35 mg 9.25 mol in dioxane 1.2 mL and N N dimethylformamide 0.1 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 170 C. for 10 min. The solids were filtered and the filtrate concentrated and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluted with a gradient of 90 10 to 85 15 dichloromethane ethyl acetate. This intermediate was suspended in dioxane 1.5 mL and treated with 20 sodium hydroxide 0.1 mL . The mixture was heated at 50 C. for 2 h. After concentration the residue was triturated with water and filtered. The solids were dissolved in 1.5 mL of dichloromethane and trifluoroacetic acid 50 M and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 60 min. After concentration the residue was purified by reversed phase HPLC Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 to 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 40 min at a flow rate of 15 mL minute to give 8.1 mg of the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.96 2.07 m 2H 2.09 2.20 m 2H 2.76 2.87 m 1H 3.02 3.14 m 2H 3.44 3.55 m 2H 8.07 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 8.32 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.40 s 1H 8.55 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.82 s 1H . MS ESI m z 357.4 M H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 14A 290.0 mg 0.716 mmol benzamide 95 mg 0.787 mmol cesium carbonate 233 mg 0.716 mmol palladium II acetate 8.03 mg 0.036 mmol and Xantphos 31.1 mg 0.054 mmol in dioxane 7 mL and N N dimethylformamide 0.6 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 170 C. for 10 min. The solids were filtered and the filtrate concentrated and purified by flash chromatography eluted with a gradient of 97 5 2.5 to 95 5 dichloromethane ethyl acetate to give 113 mg 32 of the title compound.

A mixture of EXAMPLE 17A 40.0 mg 0.082 mmol and 20 sodium hydroxide 0.1 mL in dioxane 1.5 mL was heated at 50 C. for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue treated with water sonicated filtered and washed with water. The solids were dissolved in 6 mL hot 1 1 dimethylsulfoxide methanol. After cooling a precipitate formed and additional methanol was added. The solids were filtered washed with methanol and dried to give 14.0 mg 32 of the title compound. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D 7.41 7.67 m 3H 7.95 8.16 m 3H 8.39 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.60 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.77 s 1H 9.08 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 10.98 s 1H 12.74 s 1H . MS ESI m z 350.5 M H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 17A 0.130 g 0.265 mmol and concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.15 mL in ethanol 6 mL was heated at 95 C. for 24 h. The mixture was concentrated and the residue treated with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate sonicated filtered and washed with water. The intermediate was suspended in dioxane 3.5 mL treated with 20 sodium hydroxide 0.3 mL and heated at 50 C. for 2 h. After concentration the residue was treated with 6 mL of water. The solid was filtered washed with water and purified by reversed phase HPLC Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 to 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 40 min at a flow rate of 15 mL minute . The filtrate was also separately purified by HPLC to obtain a combined 46.5 mg 49 of the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 7.28 s 1H 7.47 s 1H 8.34 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.58 d J 3.1 Hz 1H 12.55 s 1H . MS ESI m z 246.3 M H .

A suspension of EXAMPLE 14A 0.300 g 0.740 mmol in ethanol 6 mL was treated with a solution of potassium hydroxide 0.166 g 2.96 mmol in water 1.5 mL . The mixture was heated at 50 C. for 1.5 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and 20 brine sodium bicarbonate and ethyl acetate were added. The suspension in both layers was filtered washed with water and dried to give the title compound. The organic layer in the filtrate was separated dried and concentrated. The residue was treated with ethyl acetate and diethyl ether filtered washed with diethyl ether and dried to give additional title compound for a combined yield of 0.140 g 71 .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 19A 90.0 mg 0.339 mmol in 2 2 dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine 1.6 mL was heated in a Biotage Initiator microwave reactor at 160 C. for 25 min. The solution was diluted with 20 brine and washed with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with 20 brine dried and concentrated. The residue was triturated with 1 1 ethyl acetate diethyl ether. The solid was filtered washed with diethyl ether and dried. The filtrate was concentrated triturated with ethyl acetate and diethyl ether and filtered. The combined solids were purified by reversed phase HPLC Zorbax RX C18 column 250 21.2 mm 7 m particle size using a gradient of 10 to 100 acetonitrile 0.1 aqueous trifluoroacetic acid over 40 min at a flow rate of 15 mL minute . The trifluoroacetate salt obtained was dissolved in methanol and treated with 1M hydrogen chloride in diethyl ether. The precipitate was filtered washed with diethyl ether and dried to give 35.5 mg 26 of the title compound as the hydrochloride salt. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 1.00 s 6 H 2.70 d J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.22 s 2H 7.30 s 1H brd 7.33 s 1H 7.63 s 2H brd 8.01 s 1H 8.36 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.54 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.64 d J 3.1 Hz 1H 12.65 s 1H . MS ESI m z 331.3 M H .

To a solution of 5 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 0.047 g 0.368 mmol EDC 0.1 g 0.525 mmol HOBT 0.08 g 0.525 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 0.136 g 1.05 mmol in 3 mL N N dimethylformamide was added EXAMPLE 7B 0.12 g 0.35 mmol . The solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 3 h and diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with a gradient of 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane provided 6 mg of the title compound as an off white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D6 1.25 1.39 m 4H 1.75 2.03 m 4H 2.04 2.30 m 4H 3.47 3.69 m 2H 3.95 d 1H 6.87 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.84 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.51 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.57 s 1H 12.37 12.65 m 1H MS ESI m z 454.7 M H 

To a solution of cyclohexanamine 1.1 mL 9.57 mmol in ethyl acetate 10 mL was added 2 4 6 trichloropyrimidine 1.0 mL 8.70 mmol dropwise at 0 C. followed by dropwise addition of diisopropylethylamine 1.8 mL 10.4 mmol . The reaction was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for 3 h. Additional cyclohexanamine 0.3 mL and diisopropylethylamine 0.5 mL were added. After 4 h the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with 20 brine. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resulting oil was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with a gradient of 92 8 to 85 15 hexane ethyl acetate to give 0.740 g 35 of the title compound.

A mixture of Example 2B 80.0 mg 0.190 mmol Example 21A 140.0 mg 0.569 mmol bis tri t butylphosphine palladium 0 9.7 mg 0.019 mmol and cesium fluoride 14.4 mg 0.095 mmol was purged with nitrogen and anhydrous dioxane 2 mL added. The mixture was purged with nitrogen and heated at 70 C. for 3 h. 20 Sodium hydroxide solution 0.1 mL was added and the mixture stirred at 80 C. for 30 min. The mixture was concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC to afford the title compound 10 mg 16 yield . MS ESI m e 329 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO D6 1.13 1.45 m 5H 1.56 1.66 m 1H 1.69 1.81 m 2H 1.88 1.99 m 2H 3.83 s 1H 6.87 s 1H 7.77 s 1H 8.34 d J 2.44 Hz 1H 8.48 d J 2.75 Hz 1H 8.54 d J 2.75 Hz 1H 12.42 s 1H .

The title compound was produced as a side product in the procedure described in EXAMPLE 8. Yield 15 mg 36 . MS DCI NH m z 439 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.58 0.68 m 4H 1.20 1.36 m 4H 1.47 t J 7.29 Hz 3H 1.45 1.60 m 1H 1.82 s 2H 1.89 2.09 m 2H 3.40 3.83 m 2H 4.35 q J 7.35 Hz 2H 6.90 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 7.19 s 1H 7.43 s 1H 7.95 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.38 s 1H 8.56 s 1H 8.70 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 5 substituting EXAMPLE 11A for EXAMPLE 3 and 2 dimethylamino acetic acid for cyclopropanecarboxylic acid. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate to provide 80 mg of the title compound. Yield 64 . MS DCI NH m z 437 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 23A for EXAMPLE 6B. The material was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 6 mg 8 . MS DCI NH m z 428 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO D6 0.99 1.28 m 2H 1.29 1.52 m 1H 1.54 1.98 m 4H 2.13 d J 11.50 Hz 1H 2.79 s 6H 3.68 4.15 m 4H 7.25 s 1H 7.48 s 1H 8.35 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.49 d J 7.53 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.38 Hz 1H 8.60 d J 3.17 Hz 1H 9.62 s 1H 12.55 s 1H .

The trifluoroacetate salt of the title compound was produced as a side product in the synthesis of EXAMPLE 23. Yield 8 mg 10 . MS DCI NH m z 456 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.98 1.29 m 2H 1.31 1.44 m 1H 1.46 t J 7.23 Hz 3H 1.59 1.97 m 4H 2.13 d J 14.58 Hz 1H 2.79 s 6H 3.52 4.13 m 4H 4.35 q J 7.23 Hz 2H 7.20 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 8.39 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.48 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.56 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.72 s 1H 9.62 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 13A substituting furan 2 sulfonyl chloride for methanesulfonyl chloride. Yield 20 mg 20 . MS DCI NH m z 421 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to procedure for EXAMPLE 6C substituting EXAMPLE 25A for EXAMPLE 6B. The material was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the title compound as the trifluoroacetate salt. Yield 20 mg 20 . MS DCI NH m z 421 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.95 1.27 m 4H 1.47 1.73 m 2H 1.73 1.86 m 1H 1.87 2.01 m 1H 3.01 3.27 m 1H 3.94 4.13 m 1H 6.60 dd J 3.56 1.86 Hz 1H 6.90 s 1H 7.06 d J 3.39 Hz 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.83 7.93 m 1H 8.09 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.58 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.54 s 1H .

Cdc7 BEV coexpressed huCDC7 DBF is prepared internally. Cdc7 assays are conducted as follows with final concentrations as listed. In 384 well v bottom polypropylene plates 6 L compound 2 DMSO is mixed with 6 L of Cdc7 2 g mL and Jerini peptide substrate A All biotin Clinker TPSDSLIYDDGLS 2 M followed by immediate initiation with 6 L P ATP 1 M 20 mCi mol using a reaction buffer comprising 25 mM HEPES pH 7.5 1 mM DTT 10 mM MgCl 100 M NaVO 0.075 mg ml Triton X 100. Reactions are quenched after 1 hr by the addition of 90 L stop buffer 50 mM EDTA 2M NaCl . 85 L of the stopped reactions are transferred to 384 well streptavidin coated plates FlashPlate Plus Perkin Elmer incubated 30 minutes at room temperature and washed 3 times with 0.05 Tween 20 PBS using an ELX 405 automated plate washer BioTek and counted on a TopCount Scintillation Plate Reader Packard . IC50 values are determined via non linear regression fitting of enzyme inhibition data and corresponding Ki values are generated assuming ATP competitive equilibrium inhibition and using the experimentally determined apparent ATP Km of 0.7 M as determined using the above assay condition but varying ATP . Table 1 depicts enzyme inhibition data K for exemplary compounds. In Table 1 A represents a Kof less than 10 nM B represents a Kof between 10 nM and 100 nM and C represents a Kof greater than 100 nM.

Compounds of the present invention assessed by the above described assays were found to have Cdc7 kinase inhibiting activity.

A mixture of 2 6 dichloro 4 iodopyridine 1 g 3.65 mmol and tert butyl 3 aminopiperidine 1 carboxylate 3.66 g 18 mmol in a sealed tube was heated at 120 C. for three days. The reaction mixture was poured into water. The solid was collected by filtration. The crude product was dissolved in CHCl. To the solution was added TFA 2 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was concentrated and the residue was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to give the TFA salt of the title compound. Yield 500 mg 33 . MS DCI NH m z 338 M H .

To a mixture of EXAMPLE 27A 51 mg 0.15 mmol in methanol 5 mL was added formaldehyde 10 mg 0.3 mmol . The solution was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes before NaBHCN 18 mg 0.29 mmol and ZnCl catalytic amount were added. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by HPLC. Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the TFA salt of the title compound yield 44 mg 84 . MS DCI NH m z 352 M H .

A round bottom flask was charged with EXAMPLE 27B 70 mg 0.20 mmol EXAMPLE 2B 92 mg 0.22 mmol bis tri tert butylphosphine palladium 0 10 mg 0.02 mmol and CsF 30 mg 0.22 mmol and the mixture was purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous dioxane 10 mL was added via syringe. The solution was purged with nitrogen again and heated at 90 C. for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and brine and the organic phase was concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography eluted with EtOAc hexane 1 2 to give the title compound. Yield 50 mg 52 . MS DCI NH m z 483 M H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 27C 50 mg 0.1 mmol in dioxane 5 mL was added NaOH powder 100 mg 2.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 50 for 17 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to give the TFA salt of the title compound. Yield 33 mg 93 . MS DCI NH m z 343 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.35 1.52 m 1 H 1.64 1.87 m 2H 1.88 2.05 m 2H 2.70 2.75 m 1H 2.76 2.82 m 1H 2.84 s 3H 3.51 3.66 m 1H 4.05 4.23 m 1H 7.26 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.60 s 1H 8.36 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.53 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.62 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.60 s 1H .

The TFA salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 27A substituting benzyl 3 aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate for tert butyl 3 aminopiperidine 1 carboxylate. Yield 1.2 g 45 . MS DCI NH m z 352 M H .

The TFA salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 27B substituting EXAMPLE 28A for EXAMPLE 27A. Yield 180 mg 87 . MS DCI NH m z 366 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 27C substituting EXAMPLE 28B for EXAMPLE 27B. Yield 50 mg 27 . MS DCI NH m z 497 M H .

The TFA salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 27D substituting EXAMPLE 28C for EXAMPLE 27C. Yield 10 mg 47 . MS DCI NH m z 357 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.98 1.41 m 2H 1.46 1.73 m 1H 1.74 1.97 m 2H 1.98 2.21 m 1H 2.61 2.76 m 2H 2.78 d J 4.75 Hz 3H 3.06 3.51 m 3H 7.18 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.55 s 1H 8.36 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.53 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.62 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.57 d J 2.71 Hz 1H .

The title compound 0.05 g was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 20 substituting 1 ethylpyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid for 5 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.00 q J 6.67 Hz 3H 1.21 1.40 m 4H 1.67 1.95 m 5H 2.22 2.46 m 5H 2.55 2.72 m 1H 2.72 2.86 m 2H 3.56 m 2H 6.87 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 7.23 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.69 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.58 s 1H 12.53 s 1H . MS ESI m z 468.3 M H .

The title compound 0.055 g was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 20 substituting 1 tert butoxycarbonyl azetidine 2 carboxylic acid for 5 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid. The BOC group from the intermediate was removed with treatment of the intermediate with a 2M HCl in ether solution followed by filtration of the white solid to give the title compound as the HCl salt. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.33 s 4H 1.74 2.08 m 4H 2.22 2.44 m 2H 2.54 2.75 m 2H 3.56 3.70 m 1H 3.69 3.85 m 1H 3.84 4.05 m 1H 4.82 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 6.88 d J 2.03 Hz 1H 7.17 7.31 m 1 H 7.47 s 1H 8.26 8.41 m 2H 8.52 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.58 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 8.72 s 1H 9.11 s 1H 12.54 s 1H . MS ESI m z 426.2 M H .

The title compound 0.05 g was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 20 substituting 2 6 dioxopiperidine 4 carboxylic acid for 5 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.28 t J 9.49 Hz 5H 1.80 s 2H 1.98 d J 3.73 Hz 2H 2.52 2.62 m 3H 2.82 2.98 m 1H 3.38 3.70 m 2H 6.87 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.94 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.46 8.55 m 1H 8.54 8.63 m 1H 10.63 s 1H 12.53 s 1H . MS ESI m z 482.4 M H .

The title compound 0.06 g was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 20 substituting 2 dimethylamino propanoic acid for 5 oxopyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.08 d J 6.78 Hz 3H 1.15 1.50 m 4H 1.78 d J 3.73 Hz 2H 1.89 2.05 m 2H 2.19 s 6H 2.79 3.04 m 1H 3.42 3.75 m 2H 6.87 d J 7.80 Hz 1H 7.23 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.57 d J 8.14 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 8.52 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 8.57 d J 2.71 Hz 1H 12.52 s 1H . MS ESI m z 442.4 M H .

A 1 M solution of iodine monochloride in dichloromethane 9.84 mL 9.84 mmol was added dropwise to an ice cold solution of 2 chloro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine 6.75 g 11.07 mmol in anhydrous pyridine 12 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 60 minutes then concentrated. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The crude product was stirred with 15 mL of dichloromethane. The yellow solid material was collected by filtration washed with dichloromethane and dried to give 2.86 g of the title product. Yield 66 . MS DCI m z 280 M H .

Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 404 mg 10.09 mmol was added to an ice cold solution of EXAMPLE 33A 2.35 g 8.41 mmol in anhydrous DMF 20 mL under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes and benzenesulfonyl chloride 1.19 mL 9.25 mmol was then added. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. This reaction was quenched with the addition of 50 mL of water. An off white solid material was collected by filtration washed with water and hexane and dried to give 3.38 g of the title product. Yield 96 . MS DCI m z 280 M H .

The title compound was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 1B substituting EXAMPLE 2A for EXAMPLE 1A. MS DCI NH m z 353 M H .

A 50 mL round bottom flask was charged with EXAMPLE 33B 108 mg 0.258 mmol EXAMPLE 33C 100 mg 0.284 mmol and PdCl dppf CHCladduct 14.8 mg 0.018 mmol and was purged with nitrogen. DMF 6 mL and sodium bicarbonate 217 mg 2.58 mmol in 1.5 mL of water were then added. This mixture was purged with nitrogen again and was heated at 65 C. for 30 minutes. After cooling the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was separated by flash chromatography eluted with 10 40 gradient EtOAc in hexane to give the title product. Yield 88 mg 66 . MS DCI NH m z 518 M H .

To a suspension of EXAMPLE 33D 40 mg 0.077 mmol in dioxane 4 mL was added a 50 NaOH solution in water 100 mg 1.25 mmol . This solution was heated at 90 C. for 2 hours and concentrated. The residual solid was stirred with 4 mL of water filtered washed with water 1 mL of dioxane and dried to give the title product. Yield 29 mg 99 . MS DCI NH m z 518 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.24 1.31 m 4H 1.82 1.89 m 2H 1.92 1.97 m 2H 3.57 s 2H 4.55 d J 4.27 Hz 1H 6.90 d J 7.63 Hz 1H 7.14 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 8.42 s 1H 8.68 s 1H 12.92 br s 1H .

The title product was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 33 substituting 2 bromo 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine for 2 chloro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine in EXAMPLE 33A. MS DCI NH m z 422 424 M H H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 1.22 1.30 m 4H 1.84 1.88 m 2H 1.92 1.96 m 2H 3.35 3.42 m 2H 3.53 3.59 m 1H 6.95 br s 1H 7.14 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 8.47 s 1H 8.66 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 12.84 d J 2.44 Hz 1H .

The title product was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 33 substituting EXAMPLE 1B for EXAMPLE 33C used in EXAMPLE 33D. MS DCI NH m z 362 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.14 1.26 m 2H 1.29 1.39 m 2 H 1.59 1.63 m 1H 1.74 dd J 9.77 3.36 Hz 2H 1.90 1.96 m 2H 3.60 3.68 m 2H 6.92 d J 7.63 Hz 1H 7.13 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 8.40 s 1H 8.67 s 1H .

The title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 2B substituting 6 chloro N cyclohexyl 4 iodopyridin 2 amine for EXAMPLE 1C.

A 50 mL round bottom flash was charged with methyl 7 iodo 5 phenylsulfonyl 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine 2 carboxylate 100 mg 0.23 mmol EXAMPLE 36A 84 mg 0.23 mmol Pd dba 21 mg 0.022 mmol tri o tolyl phosphine 21 mg 0.065 mmol and triethylamine 0.09 mL 0.646 mmol in ahydrous DMF 8 mL . The mixture was purged with nitrogen and heated at 80 C. for three days. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The residue was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to give the TFA salt of the title compound. Yield 18 mg 25 . MS DCI NH m z 372 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 0.97 1.49 m 5 H 1.61 d J 11.90 Hz 1H 1.73 d J 12.29 Hz 2H 1.94 d J 11.90 Hz 2H 3.48 3.68 m 1H 7.28 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 8.73 d J 2.78 Hz 1H 8.97 s 1H 12.89 d J 2.38 Hz 1H .

The TFA salt of the title compound was prepared according to the procedure for EXAMPLE 36 substituting 7 iodo 5 phenylsulfonyl 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine 2 carbonitrile for methyl 7 iodo 5 phenylsulfonyl 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine 2 carboxylate. Yield 28 mg 35 . MS DCI NH m z 353 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.08 1.46 m 5H 1.54 1.67 m 1H 1.68 1.81 m 2H 1.93 d J 11.53 Hz 2H 3.51 3.74 m 1H 6.99 s 1H 7.14 s 1H 7.38 s 1H 8.87 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 8.90 s 1 H 13.18 s 1H .

The title product was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 33 substituting EXAMPLE 1B for EXAMPLE 33C used in EXAMPLE 33D and substituting 2 bromo 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine for 2 chloro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine used in EXAMPLE 33A. MS DCI NH m z 546 548 M H .

A mixture of EXAMPLE 38A 40 mg 0.073 mmol phenylboronic acid 11 mg 0.088 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 5 mg 0.007 mmol was suspended in a mixture of 7 3 2 DME HO EtOH 3 mL . 0.073 mL of 2 M aqueous NaCOsolution was added and the mixture was heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 20 minutes. Methanol 2 mL was then added. The slightly yellow solid material was collected by filtration washed with methanol water methanol and dried to give the title product. Yield 24 mg 82 . MS DCI NH m z 546 548 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.16 1.40 m 4H 1.61 1.67 m 1H 1.73 1.79 m 2H 1.95 2.01 m 2H 3.37 3.41 m 2H 3.57 3.64 m 1H 6.80 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.25 s 1H 7.47 t J 7.32 Hz 1H 7.55 t J 7.48 Hz 2H 7.62 s 1H 8.24 d J 7.02 Hz 2H 8.61 s 1H 8.92 s 1H .

A 50 mL round bottom flask charged with EXAMPLE 38A 50 mg 0.091 mmol aniline 11 mg 0.110 mmol 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 7.94 mg 0.014 mmol Pd OAc 2 mg 0.009 mmol and cesium carbonate 60 mg 0.183 mmol was purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous dioxane 7 mL was added and the reaction mixture was purged with nitrogen again. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 5 hours. After cooling the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was separated by flash chromatography eluted with 20 60 gradient EtOAc in hexane to give 34 mg of the intermediate. This material was dissolved in dioxane 4 mL and treated with a 50 NaOH solution in water 100 mg 1.25 mmol at 90 C. for 2 hours. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residual solid was stirred with 2 mL of water filtered washed with water and 1 mL of dioxane and dried to give the title product. Yield 16 mg. MS DCI NH m z 419 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.13 1.31 m 4H 1.54 1.58 m 1H 1.67 1.72 m 2H 1.88 1.93 m 2H 3.57 3.62 m 3H 6.54 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 6.93 t J 7.32 Hz 1H 7.02 s 1H 7.32 t J 7.78 Hz 2H 7.53 s 1H 7.85 d J 7.93 Hz 2H 8.00 s 1H 8.21 s 1H 9.36 s 1H 12.18 s 1H .

The title product was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 39 substituting 3 phenylpropylamine for aniline. The crude product obtained was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the TFA salt of the title compound. MS DCI NH m z 461 M H H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.23 1.42 m 6H 1.62 1.68 m 1H 1.75 1.80 m 2H 1.99 2.05 m 4H 2.76 2.81 m 2H 3.52 t J 6.71 Hz 2H 7.08 7.26 m 5H 7.43 s 1H 7.57 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 8.02 s 1H .

A 50 mL round bottom flask charged with EXAMPLE 38A 60 mg 0.110 mmol 2 tributylstannyl pyrazine 61 mg 0.165 mmol Pd dba 10 mg 0.011 mmol and tri o tolylphosphine 10 mg 0.033 mmol was purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous DMF 7 mL and triethyamine 0.046 mL 0.329 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was purged with nitrogen again and heated at 70 C. overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was separated by flash chromatography eluted with 10 60 gradient EtOAc in hexane to give 25 mg of intermediate. This material was dissolved in dioxane 4 mL and treated with 50 NaOH solution in water 80 mg at 90 C. for 2 hours. Volatiles were removed on speedvac and the residue was stirred with 2 mL of water for 10 minutes. The off white solid material was collected by filtration washed with water and dioxane and dried to give the title product. Yield 17 mg. MS DCI NH m z 461 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.15 1.42 m 4H 1.60 1.67 m 1H 1.74 1.79 m 2H 1.94 2.02 m 2H 3.65 3.70 m 1H 6.96 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 8.71 s 1H 8.76 dd J 7.02 1.83 Hz 2H 9.27 s 1H 9.80 s 1H .

To a solution of 1 methyl 4 piperidin 4 yl piperazine 4.2 g 22.91 mmol in anhydrous DMF 40 mL was added 4 fluoro 2 methoxy 1 nitrobenzene 3.92 g 22.91 mmol and potassium carbonate 3.80 g 27.5 mmol . This suspension was heated at 70 C. overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were concentrated. The residue was separated by flash chromatography eluted with 0 15 of 2 ammonium hydroxide MeOH solution in dichloromethane to give 6.88 g of the title compound. Yield 90 . MS DCI m z 335 M H H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.58 1.68 m 2H 1.93 1.99 m J 11.53 Hz 2 H 2.29 s 3H 2.44 2.51 m 4H 2.62 s 4H 2.92 3.02 m 2H 3.90 3.98 m 7 H 6.31 d J 2.37 Hz 1H 6.42 dd J 9.32 2.54 Hz 1H 7.99 d J 9.49 Hz 1H .

To a solution of EXAMPLE 42A 6.88 g 20.57 mmol in a mixture of methanol 180 mL and dichloromethane 20 mL was added Raney nickel 50 in water 3 g . This suspension was purged with hydrogen and stirred under hydrogen 40 psi at 50 C. for 6 hours. Solid material was removed and the filtrate was concentrated to provide the title product. Yield 100 . MS DCI m z 305 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.47 1.59 m 2H 1.84 d J 11.87 Hz 2H 2.33 s 3H 2.44 2.71 m 12H 3.28 3.48 m J 12.21 Hz 4H 3.73 s 2H 6.29 dd J 8.31 2.54 Hz 1H 6.46 6.54 m 2H .

The title product was prepared according to the same protocol as EXAMPLE 39 substituting EXAMPLE 42B for aniline. The crude product obtained was purified by HPLC Zorbax C 18 250 2.54 column Mobile phase A 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in water B 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile 0 100 gradient to provide the TFA salt of the title compound. MS DCI NH m z 631 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.15 1.34 m 8H 1.55 1.60 m 2H 1.70 1.78 m 6H 1.88 1.92 m 2H 2.05 2.10 m 2H 2.82 s 3H 2.96 3.11 m 4H 3.65 3.73 m 4H 3.90 s 3H 3.96 s 1H 6.72 6.78 m 1H 6.88 6.92 m 1H 6.98 s 1H 7.51 s 1H 8.16 8.21 m 2H 8.37 s 2H 12.13 s 1H .

A 100 mL round bottom flask charged with EXAMPLE 38A 100 mg 0.183 mmol Pd dba 17 mg 0.018 mmol and tri o tolylphosphine 17 mg 0.055 mmol was purged with nitrogen. Anhydrous DMF 10 mL 4 vinylpyridine 0.029 mL 0.274 mmol and triethylamine 0.076 mL 0.549 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was purged with nitrogen again and heated at 80 C. overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and brine. The organic phase was washed with brine and concentrated. The residue was separated by flash chromatography 0 15 gradient of MeOH in 2 1 EtOAc in hexane to provide 83 mg of the intermediate. This material was dissolved in dioxane 12 mL and treated with 50 NaOH solution in water 160 mg at 90 C. for 2 hours. Volatiles were removed and the residue was stirred with 8 mL of water for 10 minutes. The resulting yellow solid material was collected by filtration washed with water and dioxane and dried to provide the title product. Yield 44 mg. MS DCI NH m z 431 M H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.18 1.40 m 4H 1.58 1.62 m 1H 1.74 1.77 m 2H 1.96 2.01 m 2H 3.28 3.32 m 1H 3.65 3.70 m 1H 6.89 d J 7.93 Hz 1H 7.21 s 1H 7.65 7.69 m 3H 7.81 s 2H 8.58 s 1H 8.61 8.63 m 3H .

Table 2 depicts enzyme inhibition data K for examples 27 43 using the same assay as example 26. In Table 2 A represents a Kof less than 10 nM B represents a Kof between 10 nM and 100 nM and C represents a Kof greater than 100 nM.

All publication and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

