---

title: Method and apparatus for quantitative imaging of blood perfusion in living tissue
abstract: Embodiments provide methods and systems for quantitative imaging of blood perfusion in living tissue. A method provides for obtaining an optical microangiography (OMAG) image of a sample, wherein the image has an OMAG background sample; digitally reconstructing a homogeneous ideal static background tissue; replacing the OMAG background sample with the digitally reconstructed homogeneous ideal static background tissue; correlating two or more neighboring A-lines with the digitally reconstructed homogeneous ideal static background tissue; and measuring a phase difference between the two or more neighboring A-lines to quantify blood perfusion in the sample. Methods using digital reconstruction to reduce random phase noise in phase-resolved Doppler OCT are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08750586&OS=08750586&RS=08750586
owner: Oregon Health & Science University
number: 08750586
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100504
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 175 229 filed May 4 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Quantitative Imaging of Blood Perfusion in Living Tissue the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application is related to International Publication No. WO2008 039660 filed Sep. 18 2007 entitled In Vivo Structural and Flow Imaging the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. R01HL093140 from the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute and Grant No R01 EB009682 from the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to imaging and more specifically to a method and apparatus for quantitative imaging of blood perfusion in living tissue.

In vivo three dimensional mapping of biological tissues and vasculature is challenging because of the highly scattering and absorptive nature of such tissues. Optical coherence tomography OCT is a non invasive imaging technology that is capable of providing high resolution depth resolved cross sectional images of highly scattering samples. In addition phase resolved Doppler OCT PRDOCT a functional extension of OCT may be used to extract velocity information about blood flow in functional vessels within the scanned tissue beds by evaluating phase differences between neighboring A lines in an OCT B scan frame. Recent developments in the imaging speed and sensitivity of spectral domain optical coherence tomography SDOCT have allowed PRDOCT to be used for in vivo imaging of blood flow particularly in human retina. In spectral domain PRDOCT the magnitude of Fourier transformation of the spectral interference fringes is used to reconstruct cross sectional structural images of the tissue sample while the phase difference between neighboring A scans is used to extract the velocity information of blood flow within the scanned tissue. The phase resolved method is based on the fact that the phase difference of sequential A lines is linearly related to the flow velocity thus the PRDOCT method may be used to obtain quantitative information about the blood flow.

Although the PRDOCT method is of high resolution and high sensitivity to the blood flow its imaging performance is greatly deteriorated by at least two factors 1 the characteristic texture pattern artifact which is caused by optical heterogeneity of the sample and 2 the phase instability that is caused by the sample motion artifacts. The background characteristic texture pattern may be reduced in PRDOCT by using a dense sampling approach e.g. using more A scans within a B scan. This dense sampling approach is effective in reducing the texture pattern artifacts but it inevitably leads to a significant increase of imaging time which is undesirable for in vivo imaging applications.

Resonant Doppler imaging may be used to minimize the influence of phase instabilities by extracting the flow information from the intensity signals without extracting the phase. Alternatively joint spectral and time domain OCT may be used to rely on analyses of the amplitude and phase distributions of the OCT signals. However these methods require repeated A scans at the same lateral position which increases the imaging time.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form NB or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

In various embodiments methods apparatuses and systems for quantitative imaging of blood perfusion in living tissue are provided. In exemplary embodiments a computing device may be endowed with one or more components of the disclosed apparatuses and or systems and may be employed to perform one or more methods as disclosed herein.

Embodiments herein provide methods and apparatus for the quantitative assessment of blood flow and perfusion in living tissue at the capillary level of resolution. In embodiments parameters that may be measured include the blood flow rate in individual blood vessels the blood flow perfusion rate within a scanned tissue volume measurement of blood vessel diameters inner diameter blood vessel density within a scanned tissue volume and vessel tortuosity. Embodiments also may provide digital reconstruction of the tissue background to address background noise and enhance imaging results.

The disclosed embodiments may be used in a variety of applications such as the optical coherence tomography imaging of human retina. Other applications include a wide range of clinical and research areas having vascular involvement such as cancer neurovascular diseases diabetes eye diseases ear diseases cardiovascular diseases skin diseases as well as in small animal studies and the like.

Various embodiments provide a novel imaging technique called Doppler optical microangiography DOMAG that permits quantitative imaging of blood perfusion in living tissue. Unlike the phase resolved Doppler OCT PRDOCT method optical microangiography OMAG utilizes implicitly the phase information embedded in the OCT spectral interferograms. In embodiments OMAG uses heterodyne technology to separate a the scattering signals caused by the moving scatters from b the scattering signals caused by the static tissue background e.g. the tissue microstructures . In addition to its ability to achieve micro structural imaging OMAG provides volumetric vasculature imaging within a scanned tissue bed at capillary level resolution. In embodiments OMAG may be used to image for instance cerebral blood perfusion and blood flow within human retina and choroid. In some embodiments an advantage of OMAG is that only the signals backscattered by the functional blood appear in the OMAG flow output plane making blood flow imaging substantially free of artifact induced noise.

For the purposes of describing embodiments of the disclosure the term A line or A scan refers to an axial scan a line along the depth or z axis direction . The term B line or B scan refers to a collection of a number of A scans captured when a probe beam scans over a sample in the lateral or x direction. C scan refers to a collection of a number of B scans captured when the probe beam scans over a sample in an elevational or y direction.

As described herein DOMAG may be used in some embodiments to evaluate the velocities of OMAG flow signals by measuring the phase difference between neighboring A lines. In embodiments the method may use a PRDOCT approach to evaluate the phase difference between neighboring OMAG A lines however the application of the phase resolved technique may require a correlation between neighboring A scans. This correlation requirement may make extraction of the blood flow velocities in OMAG difficult because in the OMAG flow image the regions that are occupied by the microstructural signals are rejected by OMAG which may lead to a loss of the correlation between neighboring A scans in these regions.

In embodiments to overcome this problem an ideal static background tissue may be digitally reconstructed that is totally optically homogeneous to replace the real heterogeneous tissue sample in OMAG. This ideal background tissue may provide a constant background signal that makes the neighboring A scans totally correlated which may lead to a dramatic increase in the phase signal to noise ratio SNR for the phase resolved signals that represent flow velocities.

The illustrated OMAG system may include some features known in the art features which may not be explained in great length herein except where helpful in understanding embodiments of the present disclosure.

As illustrated the OMAG system includes a light source . The light source may be any light source suitable for the purpose including but not limited to a broadband light source or a tunable laser source. A suitable broadband light source may include a superluminescent diode. In one embodiment the light source may comprise a superluminescent diode for instance from DenseLight Singapore with a central wavelength of 1310 nanometers nm and a spectral bandwidth of 56 nm which may provide an axial imaging resolution of about 13 micrometers m in air. In various embodiments the light source may be a light source having shorter or longer wavelengths or may provide more than one wavelength. In various other embodiments light source may comprise a tunable laser source such as for example a swept laser source.

The OMAG system includes a fiber coupler for splitting the light from light source into two beams a first beam provided to a reference arm and a second beam provided to a sample arm . In various embodiments fiber coupler may comprise a 2 2 fiber coupler or any fiber coupler suitable for the purpose. In particular embodiments the light from light source may be coupled into a fiber based interferometer for example a Michelson interferometer via an optical circulator see e.g. prior to being routed to fiber coupler . Further embodiments also may include a laser diode see e.g. for instance a 633 nm laser diode that may couple to fiber coupler .

Sample arm may be configured to provide light from light source to a sample by way of a polarization controller and a probe . Probe includes a scanning device for example a pair of x y galvanometer scanners see e.g. for scanning the probe beam over sample in the x and y directions. Probe also comprises the appropriate optics such as a collimating lens and or an objective lens see e.g. for delivering the light onto sample . In various embodiments probe also receives backscattered light from sample . Although the characteristics of the light provided to sample may depend on the particular application in some embodiments for instance with a 50 mm focal length of the objective lens the lateral imaging resolution may be approximately 16 m which may be determined by an objective lens that focuses light onto sample with a light power on sample being approximately 1 milliwatt mW .

Reference arm may be configured to provide a reference light to a detection arm discussed more fully below from the light provided by light source for producing a spectral interferogram in combination with backscattered light from sample . Reference arm includes optics and a mirror for reflecting light from light source in order to provide the reference light. Optics may include but are not limited to various lenses suitable for the purpose for instance a collimating lens and or an objective lens not shown . In embodiments the zero delay line of the system may be set at about 0.5 mm above the focus spot of sample .

Mirror may be stationary or may be modulated by a modulator . Modulation may be equivalent to frequency modulation of the detected signal at the detection arm . In embodiments spectral interference signals interferograms may be modulated by a constant Doppler frequency by a modulated mirror in reference arm the modulation making it feasible to separate the moving and static components within sample . The spectral interference signal may then be recovered by de modulating the modulated signal at the modulation frequency . De modulation may be achieved using any suitable method including for example a digital or optical de modulation method. In embodiments modulation and de modulation of spectral interference signals may advantageously improve the signal to noise ratio resulting in an improved image quality for structural flow and angiographic imaging.

Various methods may be used for modulating mirror . For example in various embodiments modulator may be a linear piezo translation stage onto which mirror is mounted. The piezo translation stage may be configured to move mirror at some constant velocity across a B scan e.g. the x direction scan . In an exemplary embodiment mirror is mounted onto a piezo translation stage driven by a 10 Hz saw tooth waveform with an amplitude of 50 m. In various other embodiments however modulator may be a phase modulating device e.g. an electro optic phase modulator or acoustic phase modulator or another suitable device for introducing a suitable Doppler frequency modulation. In various embodiments the optical path length in the reference arm or in the sample arm may be modulated which has the same or similar effect as moving mirror back and forth at a constant speed. In an embodiment a method of stretching the optical fiber may be used. In various embodiments the modulation of the interferogram may also be provided by probe . In an exemplary embodiment probe may be configured such that the input signal is scanned with an offset reference to the pivot point.

In various embodiments modulation may be simply provided by the moving particles for example the flowing blood cells in the patent vessel within tissue sample. In this case the reference mirror may be stationary.

The light returning from reference arm and the light returning from sample arm e.g. the spectral signal may be recombined and coupled into a single mode fiber by a coupler for introduction to a detection arm . As illustrated detection arm includes a spectrometer and one or more of various optics including but not limited to one or more collimators one or more diffracting transmission gratings and one or more lenses not illustrated . In exemplary embodiments optics may include a 30 millimeter mm focal length collimator a 1200 lines mm diffracting grating and an achromatic focusing lens with a 100 mm focal length. Such parameters are exemplary and may be modified in a variety of ways in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In embodiments employing a broadband light source spectrometer may include a detector array such as a charge coupled device CCD configured to detect a spectral interference signal. CCD may include one or more of a line scan camera and an area scan camera. An exemplary suitable CCD may be a CCD consisting of a 14 bit 1024 pixel InGaAs line scan camera. In one specific example the maximum line scan rate of the camera may be about 47 KHz and the spectrometer setup may have a designed spectral resolution of about 0.141 nm which may give a measured imaging depth of about 3.0 mm on each side of the zero delay line. For those embodiments wherein light source comprises a tunable laser rather than a broadband light source however OMAG system may include a diffusion amplifier that may comprise one or more single element detectors rather than a spectrometer . For example one or more dual balanced photo diode detectors may be used.

As illustrated reference arm sample arm and detection arm include polarization controllers and respectively. Polarization controllers may be configured to fine tune the polarization states of light in the OMAG system . Although an OMAG system within the scope of the present disclosure may include more or fewer polarization controllers than illustrated the provision of polarization controllers and in reference arm sample arm and detection arm respectively may advantageously maximize the spectral interference fringe contrast at the CCD or other suitable detector .

In various embodiments OMAG system includes one or more user interfaces for one or more purposes including displaying images input of data output of data etc.

OMAG system may be configured to build a 3 D data volume set by scanning sample with a sample light in x y and z directions to obtain a 3 D spectral interferogram data set. In exemplary embodiments probe may be scanned in the lateral direction x direction by an x scanner and in the elevational direction y direction by a y scanner. In various embodiments the x scanner may be driven by a 10 Hz saw tooth waveform with an amplitude equivalent to 2.2 mm and the y scanner may be driven at 0.02 Hz with an amplitude of 2.2 mm. In embodiments this configuration may determine a line scan rate of about 31 KHz for the camera. In this same specific non limiting example the imaging rate may be set at 20 frames B scan per second fps and each B scan may have a 2.5 mm span over the sample including 1500 A lines. In embodiments this may represent an over sampling factor of about 10 because the lateral resolution of the system may be about 16 m. In this example in the elevational direction there may be 500 discrete points along about 2.5 mm e.g. 500 B scans. Hence the data cube of each 3D image C scan in this exemplary embodiment may be composed of 1024 by 1500 by 500 z x y voxels which may take about 25 seconds to acquire. In specific examples the operations for probe beam scanning data acquisition data storage and hand shaking between them may be controlled by a custom software package written for example in C language. In this example 500 B scans for a C scan represented over sampling in the elevational direction. In practice however 200 B scans may be sufficient to obtain the volumetric images leading to a temporal resolution of about 10 seconds for 3D OMAG imaging.

As discussed above the DOMAG method may use the OMAG method to obtain optical signals for instance optical signals backscattered by blood cells in blood vessels through rejecting the heterogeneous tissue signals e.g. the optical signals backscattered by microstructures of the tissue sample. In embodiments the method may then use a phase resolved DOCT technique to extract the flow velocity information. At first glance applying the phase resolved technique to extract flow velocities from OMAG signals of blood flow may appear straightforward. However the technique assumes a correlation between neighboroing OCT A scan signals. In various embodiments such a correlation is not achievable in the background tissue regions in OMAG making the extraction of flow velocities difficult. In embodiments the DOMAG method described herein may circumvent this difficulty.

In various embodiments the spectral interference signal captured by each pixel of the CCD camera in OMAG SDOCT is essentially the same except for the wavelength . In embodiments the method assumes that the wavenumbers of the broad band light source is from kto k k where k 2 and these wavenumbers cover 1024 pixels of the line scan camera. As a consequence the camera may record the spectral interference fringe signal formed between the reference light and the light backscattered from within sample which may be written as a function of kj exp 2 exp 21 2 3 . . . 1024 1 where i 1 is the time average kis the wavenumber of the light captured by the jth detector pixel of the CCD camera I k is the light intensity captured by the jth detector S k is the spectral density of the light source at k r is the optical path length for the light traveled in the reference arm n is the refractive index of the sample a z is the magnitude of the light backscattered at depth z. Erepresents the magnitude of the reference light. In this embodiment each B scan may contain 1500 A lines and covers about 2.5 mm in the lateral direction. So the signal captured by the jth pixel in each B scan may be written as a function of the time variable t that relates to the position of the focus beam spot on the sample steered by the X scanning mirror. exp 2 exp 2 2 

In embodiments because the light backscattered from the sample is quite weak compared to the light reflected from the reference mirror the self cross correlation between the light backscattered from different positions within the sample is not considered. The DC signals are also not considered in various embodiments because they do not contribute to useful OMAG signals. In these cases Eq. 2 may be written as 2 cos 2 3 

It is clear that Eq. 3 is constant if the sample is totally optically homogeneous which means that a z t and n do not vary within the entire sample. In embodiments if this is the case then the spatial frequency components of the sample in the lateral direction presented by Eq. 3 will be a delta function which is shown as an arrow in . However in real situations the imaging sample may be optically heterogeneous which means that a z t and n are functions of the time variable t. Thus Eq. 3 may be expressed as 2 cos 2 4 

As a consequence in various embodiments Eq. 4 may not be constant anymore. In embodiments the intensity captured by the CCD camera may be modulated by the heterogeneous properties of the sample along each B scan. The spatial frequency components of a static tissue sample which are referred to herein as the heterogeneous frequencies may be exhibited as a randomly distributed function around zero frequency with a bandwidth BW as shown in the curve in .

In various embodiments such as when there is a patent blood vessel buried within a motionless tissue at position z t it may be assumed that the blood cells e.g. the scattering particles within the vessel may move toward the incident beam at a velocity v. The frequency of the light backscattered from these blood cells may be modulated by its velocity. Then Eq. 4 may be expressed as 2 cos 2 cos 2 5 

In this embodiment the self cross correlation signal from within the sample is also not considered. The 1term on the right side of Eq. 5 represents backscattering signals from a static sample with reflectivity of a z t while the 2term represents backscattering from the moving particles with reflectivity of a z t with a velocity of v at position z t . In various embodiments moving particles may produce a frequency shift caused by the Doppler effect of the moving particles. This is illustrated in where the second curve is the Doppler beating frequency part. As discussed the phase resolved technique may require a correlation between neighboring A scans to determine v of the moving particles and the correlation in conventional PRDOCT provided by the 1term on the right side of Eq. 5 also may be required to suppress the noise signals in the non flow regions in order to increase the flow imaging contrast. Because of the optical heterogeneity n z t of a tissue n z t may impose a noise background onto the blood flow signals making it difficult for PRDOCT to measure precisely the blood flow velocity particularly in capillaries. In contrast in embodiments OMAG may eliminate the 1term on the right side of Eq. 5 in order to image blood flow. This elimination may minimize or reduce the noise production due to n z t but may result in OMAG losing its correlation condition between neighboring A scans for the heterogeneous tissue regions. Consequently the phase resolved technique may not be directly applied to OMAG blood flow signals. Thus various embodiments may employ the strategy of digitally reconstructing an ideal sample background with a constant backscattering coefficient aand a refractive index nthroughout the sample as illustrated in Eq. 6 thus creating a totally homogeneous sample which may reinforce a complete correlation among OMAG A scan signals. 2 cos 2 6 where a z t aand n z t nthroughout the scanned tissue sample. In embodiments herein a 10and n 1.35 when constructing the homogenous tissue background using Eq. 6 . These values are taken according to the typical optical properties of biological tissues e.g. the average reflectivity may be between 10and 10and the average refractive index may be 1.35.

In various embodiments the digitally reconstructed homogenous tissue sample may subsequently replace the first term on the right side of Eq. 5 . In doing so OMAG blood flow signal now becomes 2 cos 2 cos 2 7 

In various embodiments the construction of the ideal tissue sample may not affect OMAG signals of blood flow because it may only replace the tissue background signals with a homogeneous background without affecting the blood flow signals within the B scan. If the time variable t is treated as a constant and a Fourier transformation is applied upon wavelength k then exp 8 where z t is the phase of the analytic signal. The phase difference between neighboring A scans n and n 1 is then evaluated 

Based on the linear relationship between phase difference between neighboring A lines and velocity the velocity of flow signal imaged by OMAG may be directly written as 

As disclosed herein an InGaAs camera may be used in various embodiments to capture the interferograms at 31 KHz A scan rate. Thus the maximum detectable flow velocity that does not undergo phase wrapping may be 10 mm s for the OMAG system used . In embodiments the modulation frequency fc 400 Hz may be selected for OMAG to filter out the heterogeneous frequencies that represent the static tissue components. This value may be empirically determined from the tissue samples used which may correspond to a minimal flow velocity of 0.26 mm s that may be detected by the system. provides a flow chart illustrating how DOMAG works in some embodiments to obtain final velocity images of blood flow of the scanned tissue sample. The data coordinates are indicated in the lower right corner of each data block where t is the time variable of probe beam scanning over a sample k is the wavenumber f is the spatial frequency and z is the imaging depth. FT represents the Fourier transform FT against the time variable t in the B scan FT indicates the inverse FT against the spatial frequency f and FT k is FT against the wavenumber k.

In various embodiments to validate the efficacy of the disclosed method the method was performed on a flow phantom. In one specific non limiting example the phantom was made from gelatin mixed with 2 milk to simulate the background optical heterogeneity of the tissue in which a capillary tube with an inner diameter of about 200 m was submerged and a 2 TiOparticle solution was flowing in it. The inclining angle of the tube toward the incident beam e.g. the Doppler angle was set at about 85 . The flow rate of the particle solution was controlled by a precision syringe pump to a range that falls within the detectable range of the OMAG system e.g. velocity between 0.2 and 10 mm s. In this embodiment each B scan lateral direction contained 1000 A lines covering 2.5 mm. Thus the corresponding x between neighboring A lines was 2.5 m. The results are shown in .

In various embodiments it is clear that DOMAG provides superior imaging performance because the background phase noise is maximally suppressed in as compared to . In embodiments the phase noise suppression may occur in the entire output plane due to the digital reconstruction of the ideal tissue phantom in DOMAG. This may be advantageous because it is not necessary to use a segmentation method to segment the tissue regions of interest so as to exclude low signal regions when evaluating useful flow velocity signals as is normally done in conventional PRDOCT. In embodiments this may lead to a reduced demand for computing power.

To better show the noise suppression by DOMAG illustrates the signal profiles across the B scan at the depth positions marked in respectively. The curve was extracted from the locations marked with the line in while the curve indicates these same locations in . In this embodiment the phase differences caused by the flowing particles e.g. the parabolic curve were almost the same using these two methods however the noise background in DOMAG is much smaller than that in PRDOCT.

In another embodiment to quantitatively evaluate the improvement provided by DOMAG the flow velocity signals were calculated as well as the phase noise levels. Two regions were defined from the structural image flow signal region marked as the circle and noise region enclosed by the lines. The flow signal region was determined by segmenting the lumen of the capillary tube while the noise region was determined by segmenting the micro structural signals from the structural image of the scanned phantom. The segmentations were straightforward because in this simple embodiment it was known where the flow was located. Two masks were produced from the resulting two regions and were used in combination with the DOMAG image and PRDOCT image to calculate the phase signals in the respective regions. In some embodiments it is not necessary to perform the segmentation to evaluate the phase noise in DOMAG however to make it a fair comparison between DOMAG and PRDOCT the phase differences within exactly the same regions were evaluated for both the methods.

The phase noise level in the velocity image was calculated by evaluating the standard deviation of the phase differences between neighboring A lines within region 

In various embodiments the phase SNR indicates a metric for imaging contrast rather than the phase sensitivity of the system used. In embodiments the phase sensitivity for both DOMAG and PRDOCT may generally be the same which is determined by the system setup and the beam scanning pattern over the sample.

The results are tabulated in Table 1 for both the OMAG and PRDOCT methods. In this example compared to PRDOCT the phase noise was reduced from 0.43 rad to 0.037 rad for DOMAG which represents a more than 11 fold improvement. The detectable effective velocity signals were also improved from 4198 to 4395. Consequently the phase SNR was increased by 22 dB from 79 dB to 101 dB.

From the above analyses it is apparent that the noise level in DOMAG may be greatly reduced. In PRDOCT the phase noise level is often termed as the phase sensitivity which can be determined by the intensity signal to noise ratio of the OCT system X by the following equation 

In various embodiments the phase sensitivity value calculated from Eq. 14 represents the upper limit that the phase resolved method can achieve under the total correlation condition between neighboring A scans which might be met in PRDOCT by repeated A scans at the same sample position. For the examples described herein the OCT intensity SNR for the flow region was about 30 dB which is quite common in the case of imaging in vivo. Thus the corresponding phase sensitivity was about 0.0316 rad. Thus the phase sensitivity of DOMAG evaluated through the B scan was quite close to that of PRDOCT evaluated from the repeated A scans at the same sample position demonstrating the power of the disclosed DOMAG method for in vivo imaging of blood flow within the microcirculatory tissue beds.

In various embodiments in vivo tests were performed to validate the efficacy of DOMAG for non invasive assessment of microcirculation within tissue beds. In embodiments the capability of DOMAG to image the cerebral blood perfusion in mouse models was demonstrated with the skull left intact. The mouse brain was selected for use in part because the brain is one of the least accessible organs for non invasive observations of blood perfusion as in the human brain . The 3 month old adult mouse weighing about 25 g was shaved to remove hair from the head before optical imaging. The mouse was then anesthetized by using 2 isoflurane 0.2 L min O 0.8 L min air and positioned in a stereotaxic stage to minimize movement. The body temperature was kept at about 37 C. Before the OMAG data acquisition a window on the head was carefully made by removing the overlaying skin to allow OMAG imaging of the cerebral blood flow within the cortex through the intact skull. The exposed skull was washed by saline to prevent it from dehydrating. The whole imaging session lasted about 30 minutes including about 25 seconds for optical imaging data acquisition.

Shown in are the representative results from a single B scan frame of a mouse brain. is the OMAG structural image identical to the cross sectional image obtained from conventional SDOCT from which the important histological layers were clearly delineated including the cranium skull gray matter cortex and white matter. shows the corresponding OMAG image of localized blood flow that permeates this cross section . However this image only provides the backscattered signals from functional blood that does not indicate the flow velocity information which is needed for quantifying blood perfusion. Applying the DOMAG method the velocity information as to the imaged blood flow may be extracted from . The result is given in which represents an image of the DOMAG phase differences x z that may be converted to the velocity values by Eq. 10 . The blood flow velocity in capillaries indicated by white arrows for example is imaged by DOMAG.

In various embodiments the 3D imaging in the OMAG system was achieved by scanning the focused sample beam over the skull using the X Y scanner . The field of view for the system was 2.5 mm by 2.5 mm x y which contained 1500 A scans in the x direction B scan and 500 B scans in the y direction C scan . The original raw data cube spectral interferograms was first processed frame by frame and then the resulting images including structural flow and velocity images were recombined to produce 3D volumetric visualization of the scanned tissue volume.

The results for an example of a typical tissue volume of 2.5 2.5 2.0 mmare given in . is a volumetric visualization rendered by merging the micro structural 3D image via SDOCT with the corresponding 3D image of functional blood flows via OMAG where the precise locations of blood flow may be identified within microstructures of the sample. In the image a cutaway view is used to appreciate how the blood vessels innervate the tissue volume. shows the volumetric network of patent blood vessels within the scanned tissue volume where the smallest diameter of blood vessels was identified at about 15 m close to the system spatial resolution about 16 m . The corresponding velocity information for the imaged blood flows is shown in evaluated by use of DOMAG. In the directional flow information is indicated. The physical image size was 2.5 2.5 2.0 x y z mm.

To show in detail the blood vessel networks and blood flow velocities within them the maximum projection approach was used to obtain x y projection images. Together with the blood vessel perfusion networks Doppler OMAG provides a powerful tool to quantify blood perfusion within the microcirculation tissue beds in vivo.

Because both the DOMAG and PRDOCT methods are capable of providing the velocity information for the blood flows within the living biological tissue a comparison between these two techniques for in vivo imaging is provided. In embodiments the final imaging results may be different under different system setups for example for the imaging speed and the number of A scans used in a single B scan. Thus for a fair comparison the same data set was used for each which was obtained from a mouse brain with the skull left intact under the same system configurations. For this set of embodiments the imaging speed was 20 KHz A scan rate. shows the results from an example of a typical B scan obtained from the cortical brain of a mouse. The OMAG method obtained the images of microstructures via SDOCT blood flow via OMAG and the corresponding velocities of blood flow via DOMAG . DOMAG calculated the velocities of blood flow in functional vessels including capillaries white arrows for example and even in the vessels about 1.5 mm deep below the bone surface arrow . However the PRDOCT result indicated that conventional DOCT failed to provide detailed velocities of blood flow in this case. In embodiments the level of background phase noise may be an important metric when quantifying blood flow particularly in capillaries because this metric affects the ability to extract useful flow signals from the noisy background. Using the method described above the noise level for PRDOCT was typically 0.5 rad largely due to the heterogeneous property of the tissue sample as seen in indicating that PRDOCT may not be able to measure blood flow velocities less than 1.1 mm s when the A scan rate is at about 20 kHz. However DOMAG was able to reduce this noise level to 0.034 rad which is comparable to the phantom experiments shown above indicating an approximate 15 fold improvement in imaging blood flow velocities over conventional PRDOCT. Thus DOMAG provides a good tool for quantifying blood flow within a perfused tissue.

To further demonstrate the advantages of DOMAG in imaging blood flow velocities 3D DOMAG and PRDOCT images were compared and evaluated from a scanned tissue volume from the mouse brain cortex with the skull left intact. shown as projection images to x y illustrates the difference between OMAG DOMAG and PRDOCT imaging of cerebral blood flow in mice under the same conditions. To obtain the PRDOCT flow image algorithms were used to reduce the noise artifacts algorithms for minimization of the sample motion artifacts segmentation of regions of interest and correction of phase wrapping errors were implemented. It did not require performing the segmentations in DOMAG in order to render the 3D image as the phase noise level was low in the entire 3D space. The physical size of scanned tissue volume was 2.5 2.5 2.0 mm. The white bar 500 m.

These results indicate that DOMAG reliably determined the velocities of blood flows within almost all vessels in the scanned tissue. Not surprisingly PRDOCT may be erroneous in quantifying blood flows within the scanned tissue due to noise produced in PRDOCT which masks slow flows 

In embodiments the reason for these differences may be that the performance of conventional PRDOCT is limited by the background texture noise pattern caused by the optical heterogeneity e.g. microstructures of the tissue sample. By contrast DOMAG uses an ideal reconstructed sample as the tissue background which makes the neighboring OMAG A scans totally correlated maximally satisfying the correlation requirement for the phase resolved technique. As a consequence DOMAG may reduce the background phase noise to a minimum. In embodiments this may improve the capability of DOMAG to detect low blood velocity near the wall of the blood vessel and thus the diameter of blood vessels detected by DOMAG is larger than that detected by PRDOCT as seen in .

In various embodiments an alternative way to illustrate the phase noise levels is to use 3D plots of cross sectional images B scans e.g. . Shown in is such an illustration for a typical B scan from the cortical brain in mice. shows a conventional PRDOCT flow velocity plot without applying the segmentation approach to eliminate the random phases in low signal regions. The flow signals are indicated by the black arrows and the noise in useful signal region is indicated with a broken arrow. In the low OCT signal regions for example the region above the tissue surface where there is no light reflectivity and the region deep in the tissue where the detected optical signal is low due to the light attenuation the evaluated phases may exhibit random phase noise signals in PRDOCT.

From it is clear that the noise in the low signal region overwhelmed the useful flow signals thus segmentation is often needed in PRDOCT to exclude these random noises. After segmentation of the tissue region of interests a better view is illustrated in to show the effects of background noise in the tissue region. In the noise indicated with the broken arrow is so high that it prevents the small blood vessel signals from being detected. In particular those indicated by arrow heads are difficult to distinguish from background noise. For DOMAG shown in the background noise is very small compared to the blood vessel signals which improves significantly the imaging performance for DOMAG.

The disclosed embodiments also include another method of performing OMAG and quantifying blood flow using DOMAG. In various embodiments this method uses a phase only filter to detect the high frequency components which corresponds to the Doppler shift caused by the particles movements. provides a flow chart that illustrates the steps of the phase only filter method. The spectral interferogram signals for each B scan captured by the OMAG system are presented as g x where is wavelength and x is the lateral position in the B scan. This captured raw interferogram data g x is first interpolated into k space g k x along direction column by column. In embodiments to perform the phase only filter process the interpolated interference fringe data may be Fourier transformed along x direction row by row to obtain the frequency components. For all the frequency components the magnitudes are forced to be unity while the phases are left unchanged so that a phase image exp i k f is obtained. After this the phase data exp i k f may then be inverse Fourier transformed along the x direction to obtain a set of filtered interferogram signals. In embodiments these filtered interference signals mainly contain the high frequency components of the raw signals while the low frequency components are suppressed. Based on these filtered signals the OMAG method is further applied to abstract a flow image and obtain a flow velocity image using DOMAG.

In various embodiments for other phase sensitive OCT methods for example optical coherence elastography the phase difference map that represents the tissue motion may also have the same problem as stated above e.g. the low level signals cause random phase noise. The random noise makes the current optical coherence elastography approach almost impractical for use on the tissue samples both in vivo and in vitro. Using the digital background reconstruction method described above these random phase noises can be successfully eliminated making a quantum step for optical coherence elastography from laboratory research to real clinical and in vivo applications.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

