---

title: Vortex generators to control boundary layer interactions
abstract: Devices for generating streamwise vorticity in a boundary includes various forms of vortex generators. One form of a split-ramp vortex generator includes a first ramp element and a second ramp element with front ends and back ends, ramp surfaces extending between the front ends and the back ends, and vertical surfaces extending between the front ends and the back ends adjacent the ramp surfaces. A flow channel is between the first ramp element and the second ramp element. The back ends of the ramp elements have a height greater than a height of the front ends, and the front ends of the ramp elements have a width greater than a width of the back ends.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08656957&OS=08656957&RS=08656957
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08656957
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 277 878 filed on Sep. 30 2009 and entitled Vortex Generators to Control Boundary Layer Interactions the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract Number NNX07AC74A awarded by the NASA and contract Number FA9550 06 1 0400 awarded by the United States Air Force USAF . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application generally relates to vortex generators and more particularly to vortex generators that control boundary layer interactions on aerodynamic surfaces.

Fluid flow around an object such as an airplane wing generates aerodynamic forces including lift and drag. A thick boundary layer and flow separation from a surface of the object adversely affects the aerodynamic performance. Vortex generators VGs have been used in passive flow control applications such as on wings at transonic speeds to generate vorticity or more circulation of the airflow in the boundary layer thereby delaying or eliminating flow separation. Streamwise vorticity inside the boundary layer is desirable which improves the aerodynamic performance of the object.

Typical vortex generators generally have a height close to the boundary layer thickness and thus generate undesirable parasitic drag. Low profile or micro VGs VGs have been proposed to reduce the parasitic drag while producing benefits similar to those of traditional VGs. The micro VGs generally have a height less than the boundary layer thickness.

When air flows at supersonic speeds such as at supersonic inlets a shock wave is generated. Shock wave interaction with a turbulent boundary layer has an adverse impact on the aerodynamic performance of the supersonic inlets such as shock induced flow separation increased thickness in boundary layer and stagnation pressure loss.

A typical flow control method is to bleed the flow at the shock impingement to suppress separations which thins the boundary layer and increases the pressure recovery. However bleeding the flow has a significant penalty cost of removing up to tenth of the incoming mass flow in order to function effectively. This requires larger inlets to compensate for the lost mass flow which can lead to weight increase and drag. Therefore improved flow control devices that can reduce or completely eliminate bleeding are desirable.

A device for generating streamwise vorticity in a boundary layer is provided by the teachings of the present disclosure. The device provides delayed airflow separation and allows an object such as an airfoil or wing to operate at higher angles of attack.

In one form a vortex generator for generating streamwise vorticity in a boundary layer is provided that comprises a first ramp element with a front end and a back end a ramp surface extending between the front end and the back end and a pair of vertical surfaces extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the ramp surface. A second ramp element has a front end and a back end a ramp surface extending between the front end and the back end and a pair of vertical surfaces extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the ramp surface. A flow channel is between the first ramp element and the second ramp element and the back ends of the ramp elements have a height greater than a height of the front ends and the front ends of the ramp elements have a width greater than a width of the back ends.

In another form a vortex generator for generating streamwise vorticity in a boundary layer is provided that comprises a first vane element with a front end and a back end a canted outer surface extending between the front end and the back end and an inner surface extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the canted outer surface. A second vane element has a front end and a back end a canted outer surface extending between the front end and the back end and an inner surface extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the canted outer surface. A flow channel is between the first vane element and the second vane element and the back ends of the vane elements have a height greater than a height of the front ends and the back ends of the vane elements have a width greater than a width of the front ends.

In still another form a vortex generator for generating streamwise vorticity in a boundary layer is provided that comprises a first ramp vane element with a front end and a back end a ramp surface extending between the front end and the back end and a pair of vertical surfaces extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the ramp surface. A second ramp vane element has a front end and a back end a ramp surface extending between the front end and the back end and a pair of vertical surfaces extending between the front end and the back end adjacent the ramp surface. A flow channel is between the first ramp vane element and the second ramp vane element and the back ends of the ramp vane elements have a height greater than a height of the front ends and the front ends of the ramp vane elements have a width greater than a width of the back ends.

Further features and advantages will become apparent after a review of the following description with reference to the drawings and the claims.

Referring to an array of micro vortex generators according to the teachings of the present disclosure is illustrated in an exemplary supersonic inlet of an aircraft engine to generate streamwise vorticity inside the boundary layer. Generally streamwise vorticity inside the boundary layer delays airflow separation and thus allows an airfoil in this exemplary form the compressor blades of the engine which are not shown to operate at higher angles of attack without airflow separation.

The micro vortex generators may have both supersonic and subsonic applications. For example the micro vortex generators may be provided on the wings of aircraft. The micro vortex generators may be used on civil or military aircraft supersonic or subsonic and propulsion systems such as supersonic inlets or SCRAMJET engines. When used with a jet engine flow with a full healthy boundary layer may be generated when entering a compressor stage or even on a compressor blade. When used in a SCRAMJET engines the micro vortex generators can be used to generate streamwise vorticity to mix fuel and air streams. Further the micro vortex generators may be used in systems that encounter fluid dynamic separation regions including but not limited to sailboats submarines cars wind turbines compressor blades and turbine blades. The micro vortex generators may further be used in systems such as chemical lasers to generate streamwise vorticity to aid mixing. Accordingly the various applications of the vortex generators as illustrated and described herein should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to one form of a vortex generator according to the teachings of the present disclosure is a split ramp type vortex generator which is generally indicated by reference numeral . The split ramp vortex generator includes a first ramp element and a second ramp element arranged to generate streamwise vorticity through either flow spill or channeling. As shown in the split ramp vortex generator may include a series of pairs of first ramp elements and second ramp elements which are arranged in pairs and placed in an array or series of arrays inside a boundary layer not to scale . Accordingly any number or arrangement of split ramp vortex generators should be construed as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore any number or arrangement e.g. array or series may be employed with any of the various forms of vortex generators illustrated and described herein while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

The first ramp element and the second ramp element each have a front upstream end and a back downstream end . The back ends and have a height greater than the height of the front ends and so that ramp surfaces and extend between the front ends and the back ends .

As shown in and the first ramp element and the second ramp element each have a centerline X X extending along the length of the first and second elements and . The centerlines X X of the first ramp element and the second ramp element may be substantially parallel as shown in or non parallel as shown in depending on the application. Furthermore the first ramp element and the second ramp element may be oriented 180 from their position as shown in such that the back ends face the incoming flow F. It should be understood that any orientation relative to the incoming flow F is within the scope of the present disclosure and the illustrations shown herein are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

As further shown the first ramp element and the second ramp element each have a width W at the front ends greater than the width at the back ends so that the ramp surfaces each define a substantially triangular shape. The first and second ramp elements and each define a pair of inner vertical surfaces and outer vertical surfaces extending between the front ends and the back ends adjacent the ramp surfaces . The inner vertical surfaces and are substantially parallel and the outer vertical surfaces are angled as shown. The ramp surfaces and are disposed between the corresponding pairs of vertical surfaces and extend from the front ends to the back ends . A flow channel is defined between the first and second ramp elements as shown. Furthermore the dimensions as shown in are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure.

The first ramp element and the second ramp element are disposed at a distance D as measured at the front ends as shown in . The dimensions of the split ramp vortex generator including height width and distance and more specifically of the first and second ramp elements and are functions a number of variables including but not limited to the flow Mach number Reynolds number the type of shock wave that interacts with the boundary layer and the desired balance between performance and efficiency. For example smaller devices may be more efficient in that they have higher stagnation pressure recovery but may have less performance in that the strength of the vortices will not be as strong nor will persist as long. The size and relative length scales can be chosen based on the downstream incompressible shape factor using RANS Reynolds Averaged Navier Stokes numerical methods.

The pair of first and second ramp elements and create vorticity by having the flow spill over peak edges and which are at an angle to the free stream flow. The split ramp vortex generator allows flow to be channeled in the flow channel between the first and second ramp elements and . As a result the flow channel at the center of the split ramp vortex generator improves the boundary layer characteristics downstream of the split ramp vortex generator . By reducing flow separation the split ramp vortex generator improves the aerodynamic performance of external surfaces on a variety of objects such as vehicles thereby reducing drag.

The split ramp vortex generator can also reduce turbulence and pressure fluctuations downstream of a shock wave. The streamwise vorticity can reduce the amount of separation caused by the adverse pressure gradient of a shock wave in supersonic conditions or of flow expansion in subsonic conditions and can reduce the downstream boundary layer thickness on either side of the device. The streamwise vorticity helps induce mixing of high momentum flow to be closer to the vertical surfaces . As such the boundary layer profile becomes fuller and healthier.

Detailed test results and analyses of this split ramp vortex generator along with other configurations of vortex generators as set forth in the following are provided in greater detail below.

Referring to and another form of a vortex generator according to the teachings of the present disclosure includes a thick vane type vortex generator . Like the split ramp type vortex generator the thick vane vortex generator provides streamline vorticity generation through flow spill over and flow channeling and can provide higher stagnation pressure recovery than prior art vortex generators. The higher stagnation pressure recovery reduces parasitic drag created by the vortex generators resulting in improved efficiency.

The thick vane vortex generator includes a first vane element and a second vane element . The first vane element and the second vane element each have a front upstream end and a back downstream end . The back ends and have a height greater than the height of the front ends and and canted outer surfaces and extend between the front ends and the back ends . Inner surfaces and also extend between the front ends and the back ends adjacent the canted outer surfaces and are relatively vertical in this form of the thick vane vortex generators . The canted outer surfaces further define outer edges which in one form of the present disclosure are parallel to a direction of flow F . In another form the first vane element and the second vane element may be oriented 180 from their position as shown in such that the back ends face the incoming flow F. It should be understood that any orientation relative to the incoming flow F is within the scope of the present disclosure and the illustrations shown herein are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

Similar to the previous split ramp vortex generator a flow channel is defined between the first vane element and the second vane element . Furthermore the dimensions as shown in are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure.

The first vane element and the second vane element are disposed at a distance D as measured at the front ends as shown in . As with the previously described split ramp vortex generator the dimensions of the thick vane vortex generator including height width and distance and more specifically of the first and second ramp elements and are functions a number of variables including but not limited to the flow Mach number Reynolds number the type of shock wave that interacts with the boundary layer and the desired balance between performance and efficiency. For example smaller devices may be more efficient in that they have higher stagnation pressure recovery but may have less performance in that the strength of the vortices will not be as strong nor will persist as long. The size and relative length scales can be chosen based on the downstream incompressible shape factor using RANS Reynolds Averaged Navier Stokes numerical methods.

The pair of first and second ramp elements and create vorticity by having the flow spill over peak angle surfaces and and allow flow to be channeled in the flow channel . As a result the flow channel at the center of the thick vane vortex generator improves the boundary layer characteristics downstream of the thick vane vortex generator . By reducing flow separation the thick vane vortex generator improves the aerodynamic performance of external surfaces on a variety of objects such as vehicles thereby reducing drag.

The thick vane vortex generator also can reduce turbulence and pressure fluctuations downstream of a shock wave. The streamwise vorticity can reduce the amount of separation caused by the adverse pressure gradient of a shock wave in supersonic conditions or of flow expansion in subsonic conditions and can reduce the downstream boundary layer thickness on either side of the device. The streamwise vorticity helps induce mixing of high momentum flow to be closer to the inner surfaces and . As such the boundary layer profile becomes fuller and healthier.

Referring now to another implementation of vortex generators in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure is shown as a ramped vane vortex generator . The ramped vane vortex generator is similar to the split ramp vortex generator as set forth above and differs in its relative geometric dimensions as set forth in

The ramped vane vortex generator includes a first ramp vane element and a second ramp vane element . The first ramp vane element and the second ramp vane element each have a front upstream end and a back downstream end . The back ends and have a height greater than the height of the front ends and and each ramp vane element includes relatively vertical sidewalls that extend from the front ends to the back ends . The first ramp vane element and the second ramp vane element may be oriented 180 from their position as shown in such that the back ends face the incoming flow F. It should be understood that any orientation relative to the incoming flow F is within the scope of the present disclosure and the illustrations shown herein are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.

Similar to the previous vortex generators a flow channel is defined between the first ramp vane element and the second ramp vane element . Furthermore the dimensions as shown in are merely exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure.

The first ramp vane element and the second ramp vane element are disposed at a distance D as measured at the front ends as shown in . As with the previously described generators the dimensions of the ramped vane vortex generator including height width and distance and more specifically of the first and second ramp vane elements and are functions a number of variables including but not limited to the flow Mach number Reynolds number the type of shock wave that interacts with the boundary layer and the desired balance between performance and efficiency. For example smaller devices may be more efficient in that they have higher stagnation pressure recovery but may have less performance in that the strength of the vortices will not be as strong nor will persist as long. The size and relative length scales can be chosen based on the downstream incompressible shape factor using RANS Reynolds Averaged Navier Stokes numerical methods.

The pair of first and second ramp vane elements and create vorticity by having the flow spill over top edges and and allow flow to be channeled in the flow channel . As a result the flow channel at the center of the ramped vane vortex generator improves the boundary layer characteristics downstream of the thick vane vortex generator . By reducing flow separation the ramped vane vortex generator improves the aerodynamic performance of external surfaces on a variety of objects such as vehicles thereby reducing drag.

The ramped vane vortex generator also reduces turbulence and pressure fluctuations downstream of a shock wave. The streamwise vorticity can reduce the amount of separation caused by the adverse pressure gradient of a shock wave in supersonic conditions or of flow expansion in subsonic conditions and can reduce the downstream boundary layer thickness on either side of the device. The streamwise vorticity helps induce mixing of high momentum flow to be closer to the walls and . As such the boundary layer profile becomes fuller and healthier.

As further shown the ramped vane vortex generator may be co rotating as shown in or counter rotating as shown in . With the co rotating configuration both of the first and second ramp vane elements and are oriented at a spanwise angle to the incoming flow F . With the counter rotating configuration a centerline C between the first and second ramp vane elements and is parallel to the incoming flow F .

As used in the following the term VG is referred to as a micro vortex generator and is used interchangeably with the term vortex generator VG as set forth above in the various forms of the present disclosure.

Referring to various forms of vortex generators according to the present disclosure are shown to have varied length and width scaled with the height h . shows a baseline ramp BR with a height of h. is half height ramp HHR . is a half width ramp HWR . is a split ramp SR . is a micro vane with baseline vanes BV . is a thick vane with side support TV . In all these configurations the spacing between the centerlines of the adjacent vortex generators is 7.5 h. The lower sweep angles of the vanes are similar to that of the half width ramp HWR . Both the ramps in have the same height as the baseline micro ramp. The top view of the devices is shown on the right column where the sweep angles and the heights can be seen.

Throughout the various experiments conducted it has been found that reducing the size of the vortex generators VGs or VGs as used herein according to the present disclosure and placing them closer to the impinging shock location allowed reduced flow separation area at the impinging shock and increased pressure recovery downstream. This indicates that the optimum VG design is be dependent on flow conditions and may require capture of the unsteady large scale structures or flow over the VGs.

The study of the physics of the interaction between the shock wave the turbulent boundary layer and the counter rotating vortex pair generated from the flow control device is discussed below. The development of the vortices differs between various VG geometries and are compared to that of previous subsonic measurements. The evolution of the turbulent structures passing over the VGs and the impact of the oblique shock is shown and then the effect of different geometries of the VGs on flow separation and downstream boundary layer properties including stagnation pressure recovery was determined. In one experiment a Mach 3 turbulent boundary layer with Re 3 800 with an 8 oblique impinging shock was investigated.

 VGs and Computational Grid Referring to the computational grid is a scaled version of the test section of a wind tunnel at AFRL which included a downstream measuring plane MP . The flow domain is dimensioned in this figure in terms of a reference displacement thickness denoted as . The reference displacement thickness of the boundary layer is that measured for a clean flat plate flow i.e. no shocks and no micro ramps but at the position of the theoretical inviscid shock x . The ratio of the baseline micro ramp s height h to the displacement thickness is 3.19 h 3.19 based on Anderson. The length and the width of the grid is 312 and 23.7 respectively. The spanwise coordinate z is 0 at the centerline and z z . The normal coordinate y is zero at the floor such that the height of the grid varies from y of 86.3 to 61.1 at the entrance and the exit of the domain and y y . The streamwise distance was normalized by the reference displacement thickness and centered at the theoretical shock impingement location x so that x x x . The micro ramp trailing edge is located at 57 upstream of the inviscid shock impingement location i.e. x 57 . The full domain is decomposed into 11 zones for parallelization to increase computational efficiency where each interfacing zones are abutting grids. shows an enlarged side view of the grid for the baseline micro ramp .

Referring to the rescale recycling zone whose length is 29.5 generates turbulent boundary layer flow at the inflow of the domain which is followed by an oblique shock induced by the 8 wedge on the ceiling. The VGs were placed approximately at the mid point between the inflow and the outflow of the domain which is upstream of the inviscid shock impingement region. The shock is then reflected from the impingement location and convects downstream passing through the outflow plane at x 102. Data measurement to assess the VG performance was conducted at the measuring plane x which is based at x 86.2. Periodic boundary conditions were imposed on the side walls of the domain to represent arrays of VGs in the spanwise direction which would make the spacing between the adjacent VG equal 23.7 . Slip and no slip conditions were imposed on the ceiling and the floor of the domain respectively where the outflow conditions are based on zero order pressure extrapolation. The grid stretching ratio division of two consecutive cell lengths in the normal direction to the wall is 1.15 where the first grid point normal to the wall is at y 1 based on the shear stress at the inlet station of rescale recycle zone . The streamwise and the spanwise grid spacing correspond to x of 28 and z of 13 whereby the total number of grid points is 3.2 million nodes which is denoted as the baseline grid BG . Finer grid spacing was necessary in the zones that surround the VG in order to conform to the boundaries of the geometry which is shown in vertical slice of the grid above the VG in .

The vortex generators were tested in a Mach 3 turbulent boundary layer at Reof 3 800 based on where the freestream pressure and the temperature are 7076 N mand 582.3 K respectively.

Referring to different types of micro vortex generators of are placed upstream of the shock interaction with the boundary layer. This flow is subjected to an 8 oblique shock. To characterize the impact the evolution of the turbulent structures is first discussed followed by that for the evolution of the mean streamwise velocity in terms of streamwise transverse and spanwise distributions.

Next the streamwise development of a spatially averaged kinetic energy and streamwise vorticity is investigated where the latter is compared to previous measurements in low speed sub sonic flow. Finally the impact of the devices on downstream stagnation pressure recovery displacement thickness and shape factor are considered along with the net change in separation area.

Referring to the streamwise velocity contours indicate the scale and shape of the low speed streaks for the case with no flow control device. The lengths of the streaks are on the order of 1000 wall units where the spacing between each streaks are approximately 100 wall units upstream of the shock. This length scale is typical for both incompressible and compressible turbulent boundary layer flow. However the lengths of the streaks decrease 200 300 wall units while the spacing widens approximately 15 percent as the flow convects through the shock impingement as shown in the density iso surface contours of . Multiple recirculation regions are observed near the shock impingement so that the overall separation bubble is quite three dimensional and unsteady. Upon insertion of the baseline micro ramp BR as shown in the presence of the device causes a horse shoe vortex which induces flow separation at the foot of the micro ramp and produces a counter rotating vortex pair shown by the high speed streaks yellow and orange resulting from the entrainment of high speed fluid to the wall. As the vortex pair convects downstream the high streamwise vorticity fluid breaks up the center of the separation region. This contributes to the recovery of the boundary layer which was afflicted by unsteadiness of the shock and the adverse pressure gradient in the form of increased number of high speed regions.

Also shown in are small secondary vortices in blue which form due to the corner flow at the ramp s side wall and the bottom floor. These secondary vortices counter rotate against the primary vortex and contribute to the rise of the primary vortex from the floor at the inviscid shock location. However the rise is primarily driven by the upwash generated by the two counter rotating vortices. The vortices are shown schematically in superimposed on the velocity field to show their influence. The vortices entrain high speed fluid downward along the outside edges to thin the boundary layer but also pull low speed fluid upwards in between the vortices. At this point the boundary layer under the vortex pair remains attached and thin despite the shock impingement which is one of the main benefits of using such flow control devices. However the boundary layer thickness is significantly increased in the outward regions due to flow separation shown as dark blue region in .

As the height of the micro ramp is reduced by half with the HHR geometry the initial size of the vortex tube pair is reduced proportionally but the vortex core strength is approximately maintained as is that of the secondary vortices as shown in . At the inviscid shock location the primary vortex pair is significantly weakened and does not provide as much centerline thinning as the BR device. However its lower initial height allows it to have a reduced altitude and decreased intensity appear to have reduced the undesirable thickening at the outer spanwise locations noted for the BR case.

The micro ramp reduced in width by half and denoted as HWR yields a pair of primary counter rotating vortices which are more circular and much closer together in the spanwise direction . The reduced width of the micro ramp also substantially reduces the size of the secondary vortices. Downstream the close proximity of the two counter rotating vortices causes them to interact more and degrade in their strength as compared to the BR case. This is consistent with trends seen for low speed subsonic devices which are spaced too close together. The boundary layer thickness at the centerline is thinned similar to that seen for the HHR case but with somewhat more spanwise variation.

The split ramp SR vortex generator is shown in at the trailing edge. In this case the primary vortices are circular similar to the case for HWR but are separated by a significant spanwise spacing on the order of the device height. At the centerline there is a high speed flow owing to the channel between the two halves of the device. The increased spanwise spacing allows the vortices to stay closer to the wall and with less dissipation further downstream as compared to the BR case. This spacing leads to an undesirable upwash near the centerline which causes some boundary layer thickening but also results in thinner boundary layer at outward spanwise locations.

Vortex tubes generated by BV and TV yield streamwise velocity fields which are quite similar to the SR case but with some differences. At the trailing edge location BV and TV show a substantial internal vortex shown in green between the vanes which do not retain the high speed flow seen for the SR case. At the incident shock location the similarities of the three cases are stronger with the primary difference that the vane cases have vortex cores that are somewhat closer in spanwise spacing and somewhat higher in distance above the floor. This leads to less upwash near the centerline for the vane case compared to SR but all three have similarly thin boundary layers at the outward spanwise locations as compared to the BR HHR and HWR cases .

The above results indicate that the last three devices tend to have the best downstream performance which makes SR and TV particularly useful owing to their physical robustness. Generally the differences between the BV and the TV are quite small though the TV tends to have a bit less upwash so that its centerline region is somewhat better whereas the BV tend to have somewhat more high speed shown in red fluid pulled down around the vortices.

Flow separation area defined as the surface region with negative shear stress can be an important parameter for assessing the VGs performance given that a decrease in this area is a desirable feature. The mean flow separation area was obtained using a plane at y 1 for the six geometries investigated and is shown by the dark color regions in the left hand column of . The first image shows the solid wall no ramp NR case where the separation at the shock intersection region is two dimensional and the accompanying streamwise view of the velocity field right hand side column indicates a thin separation coincident with the oblique shock impact. The left hand side of baseline ramp BR case image shows a pair of thin separation regions related to the streamwise vortices near the centerline. Downstream of these in the vicinity of the shock the flow is seen to stay completely attached while the outer spanwise regions yield a much larger streamwise separation length. The outer spanwise changes are consistent with the BR streamwise velocity contours on the right hand column and both of these aspects are consistent with . The half height micro ramp case HHR yields a similar result but does not completely eliminate the centerline separation which is attributed to the reduced strength of the primary vortices. The HWR case is similar to the HHR except that there is a fully attached centerline region though not as wide as for the BR case.

In general all three of these cases increased the area of separation beyond the NR cases as shown in Table 2. Table 2 shows spanwise averaged performance parameters for different VGs with A 8.01D .

The SR BV and TV cases are substantially different than the BR HHR and HWR cases which indicate that the channel region between the vanes dramatically alters the flow. In particular SR BV and TV cases yielded separation regions which were much more two dimensional and similar to the NR case though the indicated effects of the streamwise vortices are shown near the centerline. In general all three of these devices reduced the area of separation beyond the NR case with up to a 15 decrease for the TV case Table 2 . This is attributed to the increased size of the primary vortices for these devices e.g. note in that the amount of yellow region for the SR BV and TV cases is much larger than that for BR HHR and HWR cases.

To assess the characteristics of the streamwise vortices and their affect on the boundary layer in the vicinity of the shock wave average values were obtained for various quantities at different downstream distances. In particular a square spatial averaging window was defined which included a spanwise extent from the centerline of the ramps z 0 to a position equal to the half width of the BR height z 1.46 h and a vertical extent from the bottom floor of the computational domain y 0 to a similar height y 1.46 h . The limited vertical extent confines the averaging to be primarily within the turbulent boundary layer. Average values of the pressure and turbulent kinetic energy were also obtained in this square averaging window 

In the first expression p is the time averaged pressure at a computational node P is the freestream pressure and P is the spatially averaged pressure. Likewise the time averaged turbulent kinetic energy given by the sum of the time average of the fluctuating velocity is used to obtain a spatially averaged kinetic energy K. The pressure and kinetic energy averaged using the above equations are shown in for each of the VGs in terms of non dimensional distance from the inviscid shock location defined as x x x h. Note that the trailing edge of the VGs occur at x 18 which is slightly upstream of the y axis in the plot. For the pressure distributions all the results qualitatively follow the inviscid pressure rise for an oblique reflecting shock as given by the dashed line. Departures from this dashed line can be primarily attributed to the viscous effect which causes an upstream influence of the shock and a diffused shock interaction in the streamwise direction. The thickening of the boundary layer and separation before the shock impinges results in a well established increase in the spatially averaged pressure. This pressure continues to rise throughout the shock interaction region indicated by the arrow which approximately extends from x 10 to 10 over a distance that is consistent with the length of the separation bubbles.

As seen earlier in HWR case yielded an even circular structure at the trailing edge of the device whereas the vortex formation is still in the transitional stage with other devices yielding an oval like shape. In the shock interaction region whose span is indicated by the arrow there are large variations in the decay rate due to different interactions of the vortices with the shock. However far downstream of the shock impingement x 44 all three of these ramps reduced to similar vorticity levels. This is in contrast to the more profound differences noted at x 18 near the shocks in this Figure and in . Thus the geometric differences are mostly lost far downstream of the trailing edge of the generators and the shock interaction.

The split ramp and thick vane cases SR and TV showed higher initial vorticity compared to the baseline ramp case while the baseline vane case yielded a lower strength. Furthermore the streamwise vorticity for the SR BV and TV cases were more robust to the shock strength yielding higher levels than that of the BR case near and downstream of the interaction x 18 . This may be partially attributed to the slightly reduced altitude of the vortex core for these cases as compared to the BR case. However the primary reason for the persistence through the shock may be the significantly increased lateral spacing which reduced the vortex vortex interaction and the vortex shock distortion. In addition this may be due to a more stable flowfield for the separated vortices which is consistent with reduced kinetic energy for the vane type devices.

The trajectories of the vortex pair is approximated by the position of the Y and Z which are the normal and spanwise positions respectively. The impinging shock tilts the vortex paths downward but afterwards they tend to recover the lifting effect similar to the subsonic case. HWR HHR has the highest lowest distance above the floor which is consistent with the results seen in . However SR and the micro vanes maintained a low profile for most of its path due to the spacing between the vortex pair which reduced the up wash effects .

The impact of the micro vortex generators at the measuring plane MP shown in were investigated using as the basis on stagnation pressure recovery factor displacement thickness momentum thickness and the incompressible shape factor which are defined as 13 1 14 1 15 16 

In this expression P is the stagnation pressure at freestream yis the maximum height to avoid interference of the expansion wave emanating the upper wall 23 these parameters are plotted as a function of spanwise distance in .

The stagnation pressure recovery factor for the BR case indicated large deficits in the centerline wake region due to the drag of the flow control devices. The HHR and HWR having smaller dimensions had a lesser effect . However BV and TV increase the deficit in the wake region which may be due to stronger transformation of streamwise energy into vorticity as shown in . Despite the losses in the wake region the micro vanes and other variation of the micro ramps HHR HWR SR had much improved results at the outward regions. This may be due to the initial spanwise spacing of the primary vortex pair which allowed them to be less distorted by each other and diffused by the shock. Consequently the spanwise average values were higher than the BR case as shown in Table 2. Although the resulting values reveal that the losses due to the VGs were greater than for the case with no flow control device HHR had the highest recovery factor shown in Table 2.

Likewise the displacement thickness distribution shown in displays the large wakes of the VGs at the center region where SR BV and TV had the most impact. Despite the improvements in the displacement thickness in the outward spanwise region especially for BV and TV shown in the increase in the spanwise average thickness were greater than that for the losses seen in the pressure recovery as shown in Table 1. The average displacement thickness normalized by that with no flow control device for TV gave 13 increase where HWR had the least increase.

Several different types of VGs with various dimensions and shapes for supersonic boundary layer flow control are studied using Monotone Integrated Large Eddy Simulation MILES . A third order upwind spatial scheme with a second order approximate factorization scheme using baseline structured grid generated flow solutions that were in good agreement with the experimental data. A special rescale recycle algorithm for compressible flows is used to generate turbulent inflow conditions which reduce computational cost by eliminating the need to compute boundary layer flows from the leading edge of the flat plate.

Shock interaction with the boundary layer produces substantial break up in the turbulent structures resulting in smaller aspect ratios just downstream of the shock impingement which may be caused by the unsteadiness of the reflecting shock interacting with the low speed coherent structures. Further downstream the structures tended to pre shock characteristics. Similar results were found when a micro ramp was present but their counter rotating vortices dominated the streamwise vorticity in the vicinity of the shock interaction. The simulations showed that strong streamwise vorticity is generated by the VGs and this vorticity helps to entrain high momentum from the upper boundary layer to the wall. This high momentum generated by the VGs contributes to reducing or breaking up the flow separation region induced by the shock. The micro vane and the hybrid devices namely the thick vane and the split ramp had the most impact in reducing the flow separation due to the persistence of strong streamwise vortices through the shock interaction. This persistence can be related to the increased spanwise spacing between the two primary streamwise vortices at their point of formation which also helped to reduce the local turbulence intensity and dissipation levels compared to that seen for the micro ramp case. The impinging oblique shock influences the trajectories of the vortex pair so that its path normal to the wall turns downward at the shock impingement and recovers at downstream location. The spanwise trajectories of the vortex pair are also affected by the shock which induces the vortex diameter to expand and causes the vortex pair to repel from each other.

Despite the drag penalty due to the presence of the VGs where BR gave the most loss in the stagnation pressure recovery incompressible shape factors were reduced in most cases indicating a healthier boundary layer. However the flow disturbance caused by the VGs increased the displacement thickness with the micro vanes having higher values than the micro ramps due to strong streamwise vorticity. Such events may correlate to the higher peaks of turbulent kinetic energy and rapid streamwise vorticity decay at the shock region.

Referring to and experiments were conducted in the blow down supersonic wind tunnel. shows a schematic of the test setup. It consists of a flow splitter plate and linear six degree diffuser representative of inlet geometry. All tests were conducted at a freestream Mach number of 1.4 typical of inlet flow and with stagnation temperature of 290K and stagnation pressure of 170 kPa. Fluctuations in the stagnation temperature and stagnation pressure over the course of a tunnel run cause fluctuation in Reynolds number of less than 5 with typical runtime of 20 30 seconds. Flow diagnostics included high speed Schlieren video 2000 fps surface oil flow visualization and pressure measurements using a pitot static system.

In addition to the baseline solid wall geometry a range of heights and streamwise locations for two different micro vortex generator geometries was considered ramped vanes and split ramps . Device height h ranged between 2 mm and 4 mm with an incoming boundary layer thickness of 5 mm . Device placement was set at three fixed positions of 15 25 and 35 boundary layer thicknesses upstream of the normal shock. Spanwise spacing was fixed as 10 h gap to gap for ramped vanes and 8 h gap to gap for split ramps. All test samples were manufactured using rapid prototyping techniques with resolution of 12 microns allowing for a smooth surface finish despite the small device size. The vortex generators were made with a 1 mm thick plate of material underneath for convenient mounting and alignment with the flow direction. These plates were in turn secured to 3 mm aluminum blanks with adhesive and countersunk screws at the corners and finally secured in one of three 4 mm cut outs in the tunnel floor corresponding to the three streamwise test locations. One vortex generator plate and two blanks were used for each test case while three blanks provided the baseline no control case. Once mounted the plates were sealed with putty and sanded to a smooth finish then painted matte black to provide a high contrast surface for oil flow visualization with a mixture of Titanium Dioxide and Paraffin. This mounting method was found superior to manufacturing and mounting vortex generators or in this case vortex generator halves individually as alignment with the incoming freestream and consistent placement at all streamwise locations was assured.

The VGs tested include ramped vanes with heights of 2 mm 3 mm and 4 mm and split ramps with heights of 3 mm and 4 mm. The final VG test matrix included ramped vanes with heights of 2 mm 3 mm and 4 mm as well as split ramps with heights of 3 mm and 4 mm. For all devices placement was at three fixed positions of 15 25 and 35 boundary layer thicknesses upstream of the normal shock in the planar inlet analogue test geometry with a flow splitter plate and 6 degree diffuser. Incoming boundary layer thickness is 5 mm. Device spacing is fixed with 10 h gap to gap for ramped vanes and 8 h gap to gap for split ramps.

Table 3 is a summary of displacement thickness momentum mm thickness and shape factor H for the no control NC baseline ramped vane RV and split ramps SR tested.

The fabrication technique employed allowed for consistent device placement accurate to within 1 mm in the streamwise and spanwise directions. Experimental uncertainty was present in pressure measurements and Schlieren imaging of the shock position. Stagnation and static pressures were measured to an accuracy of 1 while the position of the static pressure tap and pitot rake tubes is accurate to within 0.5 mm. Shock position as determined from the Schlieren images is accurate to within several pixels.

Flowfield characterization began with high speed Schlieren video a live feed of which was used to position the shock slightly upstream of the splitter plate. shows an instantaneous Schlieren snapshot for the baseline case. The field of view encompasses a section of the inflow region the splitter plate and small section of the outer flow and a section of the diffuser directly downstream of the normal shock position. This was chosen to image the boundary layer upstream of the normal shock the normal shock itself and the resulting post SBLI flowfield immediately downstream of the normal shock and within the upstream portion of the diffuser. Note that the apparent change in slope of the diffuser floor at the lower edge of the field of view is caused by blockage from the lower edge of the tunnel sidewall window. The diffuser slope remains unchanged until outside of the field of view. In the incoming boundary layer and lambda shock foot of the normal shock are clearly visible. A series of small secondary shocklets is present downstream of the lambda shock foot and a thick boundary layer develops within the diffuser. The few weak oblique shocks visible in the freestream are caused by joints between tunnel surfaces.

Comparison with instantaneous Schlieren of representative ramped vane and split ramp cases specifically 4 mm ramped vanes at the 25 position and 4 mm split ramps at the 35 position which were found to yield the best flow control performance as will be discussed subsequently is given in . In both controlled cases the vortex pairs and wakes formed by the flow control devices are visible upstream and downstream of the normal shock. Both controlled cases also feature a shear layer which appears to be closer to the tunnel floor. The lambda shock foot in both controlled cases appears more diffuse though its size and geometry are generally not changed. Oblique shocks formed by the devices are seen upstream of the normal shock in the case of ramped vanes but not split ramps due to the far upstream placement location of the latter in the case shown.

Referring to the overall effect of the vortex generators on the near wall flowfield can be investigated with surface flow visualization. shows oil flow visualization for the ramped vane cases. shows oil flow visualization for the split ramp cases. The oil distribution provides insight into near wall flow direction shear strength and separation re attachment regions. For ease of comparison each figure is arranged to show the no control baseline adjacent to all three streamwise locations in order of increasing distance upstream of the normal shock of a given device type and height. The baseline flow exhibits a distinct lack of spanwise symmetry with one corner flow dominating and significant centerline flow separation within the diffuser. This is indicated by a large region of reverse flow between the separation and re attachment markers in the baseline oil flow figures.

These undesirable features are mitigated to various degrees by the presence of vortex generators. shows the effects of 2 mm ramped vanes. At all device placement locations the centerline separation of the baseline flow field is eliminated but the resulting attached flow is constricted by the corner vortices. These corner vortices become larger and more diffuse but one continues to dominate as in the baseline case. There is no clear impact of device distance from the normal shock on the oil flow results. As the device size is increased to 3 mm as shown in the corner interaction becomes even more diffuse. Device distance plays an increased role as the flowfield becomes symmetric for the 25 and 35 device locations but one corner effect continues to dominate for the 15 location. Only at the 15 d location do the corner vortices continue to exhibit a clear center of circulation. The corner vortex is not necessarily eliminated rather this behavior may be indicative of a highly unsteady corner interaction which only appears uniform and steady in the temporally averaged oil flow. The same trends are evident as the device size is increased to 4 mm as shown in . The flow field is again symmetric and the corner vortices have clear centers of circulation only when the devices are placed at the 15 location.

Performance benefits of the vortex generators as seen near the diffuser outflow were investigated with measurements of pressure recovery the ratio of local to freestream stagnation pressure which is an important performance parameter for inlet design. These pressure measurements were performed along the tunnel centerline and only for the middle streamwise position 25 upstream of the normal shock for each device type.

Using isentropic flow relations inflow stagnation properties and the static and stagnation pressure measurements obtained from the flow field the streamwise velocity at the pitot rake location can be computed. shows normalized streamwise velocity profiles for the baseline and vortex generator cases. Due to slight variation in freestream velocity between the different cases the freestream velocity used for normalization was extracted for each case individually rather than using a global value. The boundary layer velocity profiles in can be seen to generally mimic the behavior of pressure recovery curves in relative to the baseline case. Ramped vanes again yield a fuller near wall profile and split ramps cause minimal deviation from the baseline. The primary utility of computing the streamwise velocity profiles however is in calculating the boundary layer displacement thickness momentum thickness and the shape factor H. Shape factor which is the ratio of displacement thickness and momentum thickness for a given boundary layer is a measure of flow distortion in the normal direction. It is a good single indicator of flow control effectiveness since it is sensitive to changes in the boundary layer profile resulting from transfer of high momentum fluid to the near wall region as well as the resulting low energy wake. Low values of shape factor indicate a healthy boundary layer able to withstand separation due to adverse pressure gradients while high values are indicative of impending separation. Values of and H are shown in Table 1 for all cases for which pressure measurements were made i.e. all device types and heights but only at the 25 location. Shape factors for the 2 mm ramped vanes and both 3 mm and 4 mm split ramps are very close to the baseline value of 1.52 with deviation towards larger values of shape factor indicating a marginally negative impact on the flowfield. Values for 3 mm and 4 mm ramped vanes however at 1.45 and 1.31 respectively are significantly lower than the baseline and indicate an improvement in boundary layer health consistent with the trends seen in .

Table 4 provides a summary of standard deviation from the mean shock position for all ramped vane RV and split ramp SR cases tested and the no control NC baseline.

Tests were conducted with a freestream Mach number of 1.4. Flow diagnostics performed include high speed Schlieren video surface oil flow visualization and pressure rake measurements.

The trend for ramped vanes was not consistent for all device heights as the shock position is most stable for the 15 and 35 positions and least stable for the 25 position with 2 mm and 3 mm devices whereas the opposite trend is true for the 4 mm devices. The best shock stability in this particular experiment was given by the 4 mm ramped vanes located 25 upstream of the normal shock while both 15 and 35 placement of the same devices yields shock oscillation greater than the baseline. Split ramp results feature a more consistent trend for all device heights with shock stability lower than the baseline at the 15 and 25 position but improved beyond the baseline value at the 35 position. This indicates that split ramps may have the best impact on shock stability when placed relatively far upstream of the normal shock.

In general the flow control methods tested yielded measurable improvements to several important aspects of the flowfield relative to the no control baseline. Specifically ramped vanes were found to perform better than splitramps. Ramped vanes eliminated centerline separation present in the baseline flow yielded fuller boundary layer velocity profiles and improved pressure recovery lower values of shape factor and improved shock stability for several cases. In contrast split ramps significantly reduced centerline separation but did not eliminate it completely along the centerline yielded boundary layer velocity profiles and pressure recovery consistent with the baseline and slightly higher values of shape factor. However split ramps did consistently improve shock stability when placed at the far upstream location. The devices tested specifically ramped vanes with height between 60 and 80 of the incoming boundary layer thickness show promise in flow control of an inlet analogue flowfield.

Referring to a plurality of micro vortex generators are illustrated wherein the ramp elements are orientation and spaced differently. shows a ramp R . shows a split ramp SR . shows a ramped vane RV RVU and RV . shows a ramped vane with larger spacing RV . shows a ramped vane with 50 size increase RVB . Table 5 provides definitions of acronyms for vortex generator configurations and their dimensions as follows 

As shown in this spacing or gap and the leading edge LE and trailing edge TE can be varied to improve the performance of the micro vortex generators according to the teachings of the present disclosure.

Table 6 summarizes the spanwise averaged performance parameters for the different micro vortex generators in Table 5 as follows 

The Reynolds number based on the boundary layer thickness at the diffuser throat was 4.55 105. The diffuser is a straight line segment discontinuous in slope with the adjacent segments with a downturn of 5 and the measuring plane MP is 2.51 L downstream of the throat. A thin splitter plate was placed as the ceiling of the diffuser which is 1 L above the wall at the throat that extends downstream to the outflow plane to help maintain a steady shock position. The grid resolution is x 40 and y 1 first grid point off the wall with a stretching ratio of r 1.15 in the streamwise and transverse respectively.

Referring to three different diffuser heights of 1.15 L 1.20 L and 1.25 L were investigated and the predicted Mach contours are shown with an incoming freestream Mach number of 1.4. The boundary layer thickness at the measuring plane increases with larger diffuser height due to increased adverse pressure gradient where the regions of low momentum fluid extend further downstream for the largest case in . Referring to comparisons of Mach profiles at the measuring plane clearly show the growing boundary layer thickness with respect to the increasing diffuser height where its thickness is approximately 80 of the diffuser height in the largest diffuser 1.5 L case. also shows effects of Mach number. It can be seen that that decreasing the Mach number to 1.3 and thus decreasing the shock strength yields a thinner boundary layer. From these studies the case of a 1.2 L diffuser with an incoming freestream Mach number of 1.3 was chosen as the baseline since it included a diffuser throat ratio similar to an external compression inlets while maintaining a thinner boundary layer compared to the previous test cases.

Referring to the impact of the average diffuser angle and its profile shape were investigated. Referring to increasing the slope from 5 to 7 increases the flow separation area shown in blue and a slight increase in the maximum Mach number and a thicker boundary layer. Changing from a sine wave profile to a simple linear constant slope profile for the diffuser shape had a minimal effect on the Mach profiles . However the former was selected as the baseline shape. The diffuser geometry was selected as 1.2 L height sine function for profile shape average slope angle of 5 and at freestream incoming Mach number of 1.3.

Referring to the upstream section employs a recycling zone which generates the incoming turbulent boundary layer. The length of the recycling zone is 1.08 L which provides sufficient distance of 3000 in wall units between the inlet station and the recycling station. The height of the recycling zone is 2 L and the width 0.32 L whether the latter is needed to develop a reasonable turbulent boundary layer Urbin Knight 1999 2001 . The recycling zone is placed 2 L upstream of the diffuser inlet throat in order for the turbulent boundary layer thickness to grow to 10 of the inlet height. In addition 2 L length provides sufficient space to include the flow control devices where depending on the size of the device one to three micro vortex generators can be placed in a spanwise array. The trailing edge position of a device is generally set at 0.87 L upstream of the diffuser inlet which is approximately 8.8 0.51 L upstream of the normal shock position. Note that the reference boundary layer thickness is measured at 0.87 L upstream of the diffuser inlet for a clean tunnel no device . The shock position is generally set at 3.8 0.22 L upstream of the diffuser inlet by adjusting the diffuser back pressure. The measuring plane MP is located 2.51 L downstream of the diffuser inlet consistent with the RANS cases and the outflow plane is 1.49 L further downstream making the total length of the diffuser and the splitter plate equal to 4 L.

Periodic boundary conditions were used on the side walls to emulate an infinite spanwise array of flow control devices and planar diffuser. and show grid topology for a two ramped vane case with a top and a side view where the grid points are compressed near the surface of the device to maintain the y 1 condition. This is later relaxed to the original spacing a few chord downstream of the device.

Referring to various micro ramp R with a height of h is shown. The suffix in this device naming refers to the number of device present in the domain i.e. R has two spanwise devices in the computational domain . The split ramp SR shown in is simply separated the two halves of a conventional ramp by one ramp height. The ramped vane RV is an angled variation of the split ramp and incorporated a leading edge width for each wing equal to the device height. Several RV cases were considered. The RV case is the baseline version and has the same chord length and height as R and SR but the gap is increased by 0.5 h to improve the flow between the wings. For R SR and RV the height is approximately 0.35 . A variation on these was the RVU for which the streamwise position is moved upstream by 1 chord length 2.3 to investigate the distance effect respective to the normal shock. The impact of size effect is also studied by reducing the height to 0.23 33 reduction which allows three devices to fit in the domain and thus called RV. The devices described above all have the same spacing from the centerline of one device to the next which is 7.5 h. In the next two designs lateral spacing between the adjacent devices and their interior gap as well as their height are varied in efforts to maximize the development of the vortex pairs with minimal losses. In particular RV shown in has an interior gap of 4.57 h at the trailing edge and 15 h spanwise spacing. RVB is a similar concept to RV but the height is increased by 50 0.52 which restricted the interior gap to 2.5 h while the lateral spacing is 10 h.

In order to conduct numerical studies on the various designs of micro vortex generators in Table 5 in a reasonable time a course grid CG was employed. This study was intended to select the optimal device in an efficient manner. The course grid CG spacing in the streamwise direction was increased two times that of the baseline grid x 28 z 6.5 and y 1 first grid point off the wall with a stretching ratio of r 1.15 and the spanwise spacing is expanded by four times while keeping the transverse spacing the same x 56 z 26 and y 1 first grid point off the wall with the same stretching ratio of r 1.15. To investigate the equilibrium of the incoming boundary layer with this grid the mean streamwise velocity and the streamwise Reynolds stress profiles are compared with the baseline grid results shown in and respectively. As expected the mean streamwise velocity profile for the CG case over predicted the U at the boundary layer edge i.e. under predicted the wall shear stress when compared to the baseline grid and DNS solutions. Furthermore the turbulent structures predicted with the CG yielded an over prediction of the Reynolds stress profile. However the 8 fold speed up allowed by the CG was important to investigate all the cases of Table 5 in a reasonable amount of time.

To investigate the effect of device streamwise location with respect to the shock interaction one may compare RV and RVU. These two cases do not show a strong difference although the upstream case tends to produce a pattern that is more three dimensional while the downstream case has a smaller separation area quantified in Table 6 . This indicates that the streamwise location has only a minor impact of flow control.

In an effort to further reduce the flow separation especially downstream of the leading edge gap multiple smaller ramped vanes were placed by reducing their size by 33 h 0.23 allowing three devices RV . However the resulting impact by the smaller device weakened the three dimensional pattern of the flow separation though still better than the NR case. The larger ramped vane h 0.34 in the previous case yielded better flow control than these smaller devices. Since the jet effects from the gap at the trailing edge of the ramped vanes was found to be beneficial a case with an increased trailing edge gap 4.57 h was studied to see whether this led to further reductions in flow separation.

Comparing RV and RV the flow penetration reduces the overall separation region downstream of the device centerline as was desired. However the separation length still persisted at the device centerline indicating that the extended trailing edge gap g 4.57 h was excessive.

Yet another case was developed in the present experiments namely RVB. This particular device had a larger size h 0.52 and a wide trailing edge gap g 2.5 h but with a moderate leading edge gap g 1.5 h which is shown in Table 5. Fully attached flow downstream of the device centerline and reasonable separation length downstream of the leading edge gap was achieved. However the separation length downstream of the leading edge gap extended much further than NR increasing the total area of separation where RVB resulted in a significant reduction. The fully attached flow through the separated region is important since they limit the separation bubble movement which contributes to the stability of the shock position.

Referring to to assess the performance of the previous test cases a spanwise average of the streamwise velocity turbulent kinetic energy and the root mean square RMS of the pressure fluctuation at MP are shown. The streamwise velocity profiles in reveals that overall the no ramp case NR had the fullest boundary layer at Y L 0.05 as compared to all the devices except for RVB. This indicates that device wake can be significant and turns out to be the most severe for RV. This is somewhat surprising given that RV is the smallest device investigated which indicates that detrimental wake effects over whelmed the benefits from the increased mixing by streamwise vortices. The second worst device in this respect was SR indicating that the trailing edge gap produced more wake losses than benefits. In contrast to these two cases RVB had the fullest velocity profile at Y L 0.05 indicating that its streamwise vortices more than counteracted the wake deficits. This is attributed to a strong and large vortex core for this case as shown in .

Overall a strong correlation was found with the pressure fluctuation RMS and the turbulent kinetic energy. For the turbulent kinetic energy profiles shown in the RV produced a higher turbulent energy than any of the other cases and the NR case while RVB produced the least turbulence which is taken to be a beneficial aspect.

Notably the RV and RVU allowed reduced turbulence compared to the NR case. This can be attributed to the influence of the devices on the static pressure fluctuations shown in . In particular RVB has a much lower PRMS in the boundary layer but also above the boundary layer at Y L 0.5. The latter aspect indicates that the normal shock oscillations which dominated in this region are substantially reduced by the presence of the device. In contrast RV has the highest pressure fluctuations throughout which will drive unsteadiness in the boundary layer yielding higher kinetic energy. It is not clear how these pressure fluctuations are influenced by the device but perhaps the jet effect for the ramped vane cases and strong streamwise vorticity tends to stabilize the flow. Another possibility is that the increased three dimensionality of the separation regions as shown in for cases RV RVU RV and RVB help limit the separation bubble unsteadiness.

Referring to the impact of the micro vortex generators at MP were further investigated by studying stagnation pressure recovery factor displacement thickness momentum thickness and the incompressible shape factor. The stagnation pressure recovery factor with the device in shows lower value than that for the solid wall case. However the differences are almost negligible from the NR case which indicates that the parasitic drags caused by the device are small. However large variations were seen in the displacement thickness as the mean velocity profiles were diverse as previously shown in . Again RV and SR gave significantly higher values than the NR case which comes from the distortions in the velocity profiles near the wall . The displacement thickness for R on the other hand was generally lower than most of the ramped vane types RV RVU and RV which was due to the weak vorticity generated by the device shown in causing less disturbance to the boundary layer. Similar to the previous results RVB gave the lowest overall displacement thickness compared to other devices due to a fuller boundary layer profile near the wall indicating higher shear stress. However the overall displacement thicknesses were greater with the flow control device than that for NR shown in Table 6 since they introduce disturbance to the boundary layer and the shock region.

The incompressible shape factors in are the indicators of flow uniformity where values close to unity would be an ideal case. Similar the previous results RV and SR gave higher values compared to other devices. This may be due to the disturbance in the boundary layer as seen in which is due to wake of the device causing instability of the shock as discussed earlier. The shape factors were decreased for R RV and RVU compared to the previous two cases which could be related to the increased flow penetration at the shock region along the device centerline that limit the shock movement. As the flow penetrates further in the shock region along the device centerline as in the case for RV and RVB the shape factor decreases especially near the center where the average for RVB is lower than the NR case shown in Table 6.

Based on the above low resolution VG study RVB gave the best performance in improving the boundary layer health such as seen in the reductions in turbulent kinetic energy pressure fluctuation RMS and the incompressible shape factor compared to the solid wall case which is summarized in Table 6. In addition RVB yielded the thinnest average displacement thickness while the pressure recovery coefficient was nearly equal to the NR case. Furthermore the fully attached flow through the shock region downstream of the device trailing edge may have improved stability of the shock position by increasing the separation bubble three dimensionality.

In general the VGs reduced the total separation area compared to the solid wall case where spanwise variations in the separation length existed in the coarse resolution study. The jet effects from the ramped vanes such as RV RVU significantly reduced the flow separation length downstream of the device centerline while the length persisted for the ramp types due to the up wash effects. To maximize the jet effect a larger ramped vane with a wider trailing edge gap RVB was developed which yielded a fully attached flow through the centerline of the separation region. The resulting mean streamwise velocity profile at the measuring plane was fuller with the RVB compared to all the other devices and NR. In addition this device yielded the most reductions of turbulent kinetic energy and the pressure fluctuation. Additional benefits include negligible drag as evidenced by the nearly equal stagnation pressure coefficient with that of NR while the reductions of

The present invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments which are provided only for exemplification and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

