---

title: Systems for sharing annotations and location references for same for displaying the annotations in context with an electronic document
abstract: In one embodiment, a user of a first portable digital computing device creates an annotation associated with a particular reading location within a reference document. The annotation and the reading location are shared with a second portable digital computing device storing a copy of the reference document. Using the shared information, the second device displays the reference document with the annotation shown at the reading location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799765&OS=08799765&RS=08799765
owner: Inkling Systems, Inc.
number: 08799765
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100325
---
This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 300 319 filed on Feb. 1 2010 and claims priority thereto.

This invention relates generally to sharing one or more reading locations in a reference document and displaying the one or more reading locations on an electronic computing device.

As the use of personal computing devices to read and view content becomes more commonplace there is growing need for users to be able to communicate and share ideas notes or other information related to such content. Communicating such information is most commonly communicated out of context of the content or with insufficient context. Other communications methods require transmitting such information and a copy of the content which can unduly burden computing and network resources and complicate the communication of subsequent information. Moreover traditional communications methods are incapable of handling context specific information received from more than one source particularly if such information is related to more than one location in the content. Thus there exists a need in the art to efficiently and effectively share context specific information amongst users with reference to locations within the content to which such information relates.

The embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to sharing one or more reading locations in a reference document and displaying the one or more reading locations on an electronic computing device.

In one embodiment of the invention a portable digital computing device for viewing shared annotations of at least one electronic reference document comprises a digital memory a display a user input interface and a network interface and said computing device is configured to store a persistent copy of the reference document locally in the digital memory receive via the network interface an electronic transmission over a telecommunications network of a digital location identifier and an associated annotation said identifier specifying the reference document and a reading location within the document and responsive to a user request display the persistent local copy of the document with the annotation automatically shown at the specified reading location on the display.

In another embodiment of the invention a portable digital computing device for transmitting shared annotations of at least one electronic reference document comprises a digital memory a display a user input interface and a network interface and said computing device is configured to store a persistent copy of the reference document locally in the digital memory receive via the user input interface information corresponding to a reading location within the reference document and an associated annotation and transmit via the network interface an electronic transmission over a telecommunications network of a digital location identifier and the associated annotation said identifier specifying the reference document and the reading location within the document.

For purposes of summarizing this invention certain aspects advantages and novel features of the invention have been described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Systems methods processes data structures and user interfaces which represent one embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. Variations to the systems methods processes data structures and user interfaces will also be described.

In one embodiment an electronic computing device is in communication with a plurality of other electronic devices over a network. The electronic computing device stores a copy of a reference document that is output to the display of the electronic computing device. A user of the electronic computing device is able to navigate the reference document select a reading location and transmit a computer readable location identifier to one of the other electronic devices connected to the network without transmitting the reference document.

As used herein the term reference document refers to an electronic or computer readable document comprising text images tables interactive objects quizzes and or assessments. For example reference documents may include an electronic version of a magazine article newspaper presentation book 3 D object collection video anthology or textbook. In some embodiments the reference document may be protected using digital rights management DRM technology. DRM technology typically disables the illegal copying and distribution of copyrighted works.

The term reading location refers to any discrete location or set of discrete locations located in the reference document. For example reading locations may include a word a plurality of words a title a sentence a paragraph a chapter a section an image a table an interactive object a specific question in an interactive assessment set a frame or frames in a video or any portion of the foregoing.

In some implementations the user may also enter an annotation corresponding to the reading location which is transmitted as part of the computer readable location identifier. For example annotations may include one or more words one or more numerals a mathematical formula a graphical image a link to a location a universal resource locator URL address a script and highlighting of selected text.

When another electronic device on the network receives the computer readable location identifier the receiving electronic device outputs to its display the reading location. In some embodiments the reading location may be displayed in the context of a copy of the reference document stored on the receiving electronic device or in the context of only an excerpt of the reference document. If an annotation is transmitted in connection with the location identifier it is also contemplated that the receiving electronic device could be configured to display the annotation at or near of the reading location.

The electronic computing device may also be configured to receive a plurality of annotations from one or more of the electronic devices connected to the network. In one embodiment the plurality of annotations are displayed in the context of the reference document at or near each annotation s reading location. In another embodiment some or all of the plurality of annotations are displayed in a notes page. In some implementations a user can navigate to the reading location corresponding to an annotation by selecting the annotation in the notes page.

The embodiments described herein may be advantageously utilized in a variety of environments. For example embodiments of the invention may be used in an academic classroom to permit students to collaborate and share notes on reading assignments and to allow educators to direct students to particular portions of a text. Additionally students in a large lecture class may follow the note stream of the professor seeing his or her annotations in line with the student s own. Students may also view a heat map of the document for example a textbook that identifies which text has been most commonly annotated or highlighted giving the user a sense of which parts of the document are most important or interesting to users in the class or users of the document globally. In another example users in a study group follow the notes of others in the group in order to direct attention to topics of interest to the group. In yet another example students in a particular lecture section in a university setting are able to follow the notes of the teaching assistant in charge of the section and note his or her comments prior to face to face meetings with the teaching assistant.

Examples of enterprise applications for embodiments of the present invention are also numerous and may include directed navigation through a presentation to attendees who are remotely located from the presenter and transmitting comments in real time to multiple recipients of a document. Additional possible applications include permitting Internet users to make reading location specific comments to on line articles sharing comments amongst users of a book club and reducing bandwidth and storage requirements on networks by enabling document collaborators to transmit comments using light weight location identifiers rather than multiple copies of the underlying reference document.

In one embodiment the plurality of devices may be one of the following types a mobile device a portable electronic computing device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a laptop a netbook a tablet computer a mainframe terminal a client application a web browser a desktop computer an iPad an iPod an iPhone a Chrome OS based tablet device or a similar device or application. It is understood that in other embodiments the devices described herein may be each characterized as being of one or more of the foregoing device types. Further the embodiments described herein may be enabled using devices that are of the same type or that are of heterogeneous types.

Device A is representative of one embodiment of one of the plurality of electronic devices . Device A comprises a software module a display an input device a storage device and a network interface . It is understood that in other embodiments the plurality of electronic devices may contain additional or fewer components than those depicted in .

Device A communicates with other devices over the network using a network interface . The network interface may connect to the network using a wired or wireless connection and may utilize an Ethernet TCP IP 802.11 cellular bluetooth or other communication protocol. In some embodiments devices on the network transmit reading location identifiers annotations and or other data to an intermediate service for example the cloud and the intermediate service determines which other devices should receive the data. The intermediate service can be configured to communicate such information to another device even when the transmitting device does not specify an intended recipient. In other embodiments such data can be communicated directly between a transmitting device and a receiving device. The term transmit or transmission as used herein generally refers to direct communications indirect communications via an intermediate service and other communications methods capable of transmitting data.

The display is configured to output to the user of Device A a reference document at a particular reading location and may additionally display one or more annotations that correspond to the reading location. Additional and alternative outputs to the display like those associated with the embodiments described herein are also contemplated.

The input device may be used by the user of Device A to select a reference document navigate the reference document select a reading location enter an annotation edit an annotation select preferences for transmitting or receiving a reading location or an annotation create a notes page navigate a storefront of available documents purchase and downloading documents chat with other users and perform other functions. In one embodiment the input device is a touch sensitive display configured to receive single or multi touch inputs from the user. In other embodiments the input device may alternatively or additionally be a full size physical keyboard a mouse a QWERTY keypad an alphanumeric keypad found on a telephone a microphone for receiving audible commands or other device capable of receiving input from a user.

The storage device may be a local or remote storage device and may be a hard disk optical media a magnetic storage device a solid state drive memory chip or other storage medium. The storage device is capable of storing a copy of the reference document reading locations annotations and or the software module .

In some embodiments the storage device stores a persistent copy of the reference document. A persistent copy of the reference document can be accessed when the device storing the copy is not connected to the network. For example persistent copy as used herein is not intended to refer to a copy of a document or a substantial portion thereof that must downloaded from the Internet each time the document is accessed.

In one embodiment the software module is configured to generate and or interpret the computer readable location identifier. As used herein the word module refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example C C Java JavaScript Flash Silverlight HTML Objective C Objective J or LISP. A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl Python JavaScript or Ruby. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Moreover although in some embodiments a module may be separately compiled in other embodiments a module may represent a subset of instructions of a separately compiled program and may not have an interface available to other logical program units.

In one embodiment the hardware device and operating system provide the functions required to run application software including the processor system memory storage network interface TCP IP stack or other protocol stack and application programming interfaces for the development of software applications. The hardware device and operating system can be of any variation including traditional PC based operating systems mobile device operating systems or network based operating systems that abstract the hardware layer from the application programming interface. The client application represents the user level executable the user launches on the client device in order to access the features of the platform as illustrated in this figure. In some embodiments all functions of the layers shown in this diagram with the exception of the hardware and operating system are encapsulated in the client application. In one implementation Digital Rights Management or DRM provides data protection to inhibit a user s ability to extract media bundles content written in the intermediate metalanguage and or other protected assets from the application software. The DRM can also be configured to prevent a user or system from extracting text images video or other protected assets and transmitting those assets to another device or writing them out to disk for later retrieval or sharing. The DRM may also monitor file system and memory activity to ensure that protected content is not left in a cache or other persistent unprotected form. The intermediate metalanguage preferably provides a platform agnostic representation of all content and metadata for that content. Metadata can include basic information such as the date content was created the version number and where that content should appear in the context of its bundle. Metadata may also include descriptions of interactive behavior such as for example where audio annotations would be anchored on an image when it is rendered in the system or how a molecular stick figure might be positioned initially on screen when the user opens it. Preferably the intermediate metalanguage is consistent across multiple hardware devices and operating systems . The interactive engine is configured to interpret the intermediate metalanguage and read data from the media bundle providing it in a platform specific representation to the layout rendering engine and the platform specific API . The interactive engine can be configured to also handle events such as multi finger touch inputs to determine the appropriate behavior of the object on screen. The platform specific API is configured to accept data from the interactive engine and media bundle and determine the appropriate objects to instantiate in order to display the content to the user. The layout rendering engine works in parallel with the platform specific API to render that content to the display. The user interface is a collection of canonical visual elements that provide the user with known results to input behaviors. For example the user interface can be configured to render a small sticky note that shows that a given location in the document has an annotation attached.

The source field stores a value corresponding to the identity of the electronic device that generates the location identifier . For example the value can represent the identity of the user of the electronic device and or the MAC address of the electronic device that created the location identifier. Additionally or alternatively the source field may include a value corresponding to the identity of the electronic device that is currently transmitting or has in the past transmitted the location identifier.

The reference document field stores a value corresponding to the identity of a reference document. The reference document field may store any value that one or more electronic devices connected to the network can recognize as referring to the reference document. For example the value stored in the reference document field can be the title of the reference document an International Standard Book Number ISBN a universal resource locator URL address an output of a hash function a universally unique identifier UUID or a pointer to a shared resource. In some implementations the reference document field may additionally include a value corresponding to a particular version of the reference document.

The reading location field stores a value corresponding to a reading location located within the reference document . The reading location field may include a pointer to an object such as a block of text an image a movie file a 3 D object or other such media object and an offset such as a number of characters frames or pixels from the start of the file or any other value which one or more electronic devices with rights to use the reference document can recognize as the specified reading location regardless of how that content is displayed to a user on that particular device. It is understood that the location identifier may be configured to store one or more reading locations.

In some embodiments the location identifier comprises an annotation field . The annotation field comprises a user generated or computer generated value with contextual relevance to the reading location referenced in the reading location field . In other embodiments in which an annotation is not specified or is irrelevant to a particular application the annotation field contains a null set or the annotation field is omitted from the location identifier .

It is recognized that in other embodiments the location identifier may include only some of the fields illustrated in or may include additional fields. In addition the values stored in the fields of the embodiments described above may be stored in a single field or stored in parts in a plurality of fields. It is further recognized that the data stored in the location identifier may be communicated using a single data structure or a plurality of data structures.

In decision block the operation device determines whether the user wishes to create an annotation associated with the reading location. If the user does not wish to create an annotation the process skips to decision block . However if the user wishes to make an annotation the user is prompted to enter an annotation . The annotation is then received by the electronic computing device and stored in the location identifier .

In decision block the operation determines whether the user wishes to share the reading location information with other users. If the user does not wish to share the reading location information with other users the operation ends . However if the user wishes to share the reading location information with other users operation prompts the user to input the user s sharing preferences receives the sharing preferences and transmits the location identifier to other electronic devices in accordance with the user s sharing preferences . The operation may be configured to transmit the reading location information to other electronic devices without transmitting a copy of the reference document.

In one embodiment the user enters preset sharing preferences that are globally applied to sharing performed by the user. In another embodiment preset sharing preferences are applied if certain conditions are satisfied for example a user may specify preset sharing preferences for a particular reference document . In the foregoing embodiments operation may be modified to provide the user with the option to override the preset sharing preferences. For example sharing preferences may include granting permission to share with anybody or to share with only a particular group of one or more users or a particular class of users. Sharing preferences may also include restricting sharing to a particular group of one or more users or a particular class of users or permitting sharing to anyone who wish.

It will be appreciated by one with skill in the art that operation is not limited to the sequence of steps depicted in . In other embodiments the inputs and outputs of operation are passed as values references and or stored in accessible memory locations. It is also recognized that the copy of the reference document and or the reading location information may be stored locally or remotely for example on a server .

Decision block determines if the user has rights to use a copy of the reference document referenced by the received location identifier. The operation makes the determination by analyzing the DRM information associated with the copy of the reference document. In another embodiment the operation queries a remote database to determine whether the user has rights to use a copy of the reference document.

If the user does not have rights to use a copy of the reference document the user is prompted with an option to purchase rights to use a copy of the reference document . If the user does not purchase rights to use a copy of the reference document the operation ends .

If the user has rights to use a copy of the reference document either by having a preexisting right to use it or by purchasing rights to use it the electronic computing device stores the received location identifier and performs a lookup of the user s display preferences . Decision block determines whether the user s display preferences permit the electronic computing device to display information associated with the received location identifier. In one embodiment the user can specify display preferences that allow for the display of information associated with a location identifier if the location identifier is received from a group of one or more specified users or one or more classes of users. In another embodiment the user can specify display preferences that do not allow the display of information associated with a location identifier if the location identifier is received from a group of one or more specified users or one or more classes of users. For example a class of users may comprise members of a social network for example Facebook friends of the receiving user members of a group that the receiving user has elected to follow for example Twitter users that a user is following students enrolled in an educational course employees of an organization members of a book club all owners of a given document within a certain radius of a given location all users interested in the main subject of the document e.g. patent law or personal finance and members of a working group.

If the user s display preferences permit display in decision block the receiving electronic computing device outputs information corresponding to and or associated with the received location identifier to its display. Embodiments for displaying information associated with the received location identifier will be described in more detail below. However if the display preferences do not permit display the process ends.

It will be appreciated by one with skill in the art that operation is not limited to the sequence of steps depicted in . In other embodiments the inputs and outputs of operation are passed as values references and or stored in accessible memory locations. It is also recognized that the copy of the reference document and or the reading location information may be stored locally or remotely for example on a server .

The embodiments described in this section refer to a receiving electronic device which is an electronic device that has received one or more location identifiers. In one embodiment the receiving electronic device receives a location identifier and is configured to display a copy of the reference document at or near the reading location stored in the location identifier. In another embodiment the receiving electronic device receives a plurality of location identifiers. The receiving electronic device can be configured to display indications in the display of the reference document that correspond to the reading locations associated with each of the plurality of location identifiers. In yet another embodiment the receiving electronic device is configured to permit a user to navigate to reading locations specified by a plurality of received location identifiers using an input device. For example the receiving electronic device can be configured to permit the user to navigate to successive reading locations and or jump to a reading location using a map or other index of reading locations associated with the reference document.

In another embodiment the receiving electronic device receives a plurality of location identifiers and is configured to display a notes page. A notes page comprises excerpts of one or more reference documents located at or near the reading locations specified by the plurality of the location identifiers and or annotations stored in the location identifiers. In some implementations a user can navigate to a reading location associated with an entry in the notes page by selecting the entry using an input device associated with the receiving electronic device.

In a further embodiment the receiving electronic device displays a heat map in connection with the display of the reference document. In one implementation the heat map uses colors to represent the concentration of reading locations located within the reference document. The reading locations may be specified by the user of the receiving electronic device and or other users with rights to use a copy of the reference document. For example the most commonly highlighted and or commented text can be indicated using the color red at or near the text. Text that is less frequently highlighted and or commented can be indicated using other colors such as yellow and green that are representative of the respective frequency with which text is highlighted and or commented.

In yet another embodiment the receiving electronic device updates a display of a copy of the reference document in response to receiving a location identifier. In one implementation the display of the receiving electronic device is updated with icons displayed in connection with the reference document each associated with a received location identifier as such location identifiers are received. In another implementation the display of the of the receiving electronic device is updated with icons in the reference document without refreshing unchanged portions of the display. In yet another implementation the display of the receiving electronic device is updated with icons in real time.

In other embodiments a user may also specify a reading location by selecting Highlight from the menu or by pressing the Done button after having entered nothing in the Add Note region .

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the breadth and scope of the present invention should be defined in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

By way of example the following alternatives are also contemplated. In the case where a user of the invention has the latest version of a document for example version 8.0 and another user also has that same version the device accepts reading locations and annotations which are shared to the other user s device. If the second user downloads an update to his document for example version 8.1 the second device must now resolve reading locations against similar but not identical documents. The second device may be configured to resolve this ambiguous situation by generalizing the reading location to its nearest similar anchor displaying the reading location and its associated annotation if any in the correct location if that content still exists or at a similar location if that content has been modified. In cases where entire annotated sections are missing from the new document the reading location can be defined to be the former relative location of the removed text for example in the gap between the preceding and proceeding paragraphs of a missing paragraph which was annotated originally . For example the platform is capable of resolving modifications to the source document after annotations have been added but without transmitting any portion of the source document to the receiving user.

It is recognized that many lecture style classes at four year universities have hundreds or even thousands of enrollees all of whom must stay in sync with the progress of their class. In lecture halls professors often reference handouts textbooks or other documents in the course of discussion. Embodiments of the invention can be configured to allow the professor to distribute a reading location to immediately synchronize all devices in the room to a given reading location. For example if the professor is referring to a specific concept in the reading he may distribute a reading location that points to a relevant figure or illustration. Users may also annotate the figure with their own observations or those given verbally by the professor and will instantly see the comments and annotations of others in the class as they contribute their own. Students who did not attend lecture can view the collection of comments or the indication of popularity of that figure when they next visit that reading location.

In another example students who are collaborating on schoolwork are able to pass reading locations to one another using their devices. Provided that two students are using the same document one student can pass to the other student a reading location for example via a chat window within the application and the second student can then immediately jump to that location in the document without passing a copy of the document over the network and without regard for the specific version of the document that either student is using.

The above mentioned alternatives are examples of other embodiments and they do not limit the scope of the invention. It is recognized that the present invention may be implemented on a variety of processing platforms and that various fields values and displays may be used. In addition other embodiments of the flow charts may be used.

