---

title: Modified FC molecules
abstract: The present invention relates to Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties, methods for their generation, Fc polypeptides comprising Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties, and methods for using Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09040041&OS=09040041&RS=09040041
owner: Xencor, Inc.
number: 09040041
owner_city: Monrovia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100604
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 981 647 filed Oct. 31 2007 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 538 406 filed Oct. 3 2006 now abandoned which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 741 966 filed Dec. 2 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 779 961 filed Mar. 6 2006 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 745 078 filed Apr. 18 2006 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 723 294 filed Oct. 3 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 723 335 filed Oct. 3 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 739 696 filed Nov. 23 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 750 699 filed Dec. 15 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 774 358 filed Feb. 17 2006 this application is also a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 396 495 filed Mar. 31 2006 now abandoned each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties engineering methods for their generation and their application particularly for therapeutic purposes.

Antibodies are immunological proteins that bind a specific antigen. Generally antibodies are specific for targets have the ability to mediate immune effector mechanisms and have a long half life in serum. Such properties make antibodies powerful therapeutics. Monoclonal antibodies are used therapeutically for the treatment of a variety of conditions including cancer inflammation and cardiovascular disease. There are currently over ten antibody products on the market and hundreds in development.

Antibodies have found widespread application in oncology particularly for targeting cellular antigens selectively expressed on tumor cells with the goal of cell destruction. There are a number of mechanisms by which antibodies destroy tumor cells including anti proliferation via blockage of needed growth pathways intracellular signaling leading to apoptosis enhanced down regulation and or turnover of receptors CDC ADCC ADCP and promotion of an adaptive immune response Cragg et al. 1999 11 541 547 Glennie et al. 2000 21 403 410 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Anti tumor efficacy may be due to a combination of these mechanisms and their relative importance in clinical therapy appears to be cancer dependent. Despite this arsenal of anti tumor weapons the potency of antibodies as anti cancer agents is unsatisfactory particularly given their high cost. Patient tumor response data show that monoclonal antibodies provide only a small improvement in therapeutic success over normal single agent cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. For example just half of all relapsed low grade non Hodgkin s lymphoma patients respond to the anti CD20 antibody rituximab McLaughlin et al. 1998 16 2825 2833 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Of 166 clinical patients 6 showed a complete response and 42 showed a partial response with median response duration of approximately 12 months. Trastuzumab Herceptin Genentech an anti HER2 neu antibody for treatment of metastatic breast cancer has less efficacy. The overall response rate using trastuzumab for the 222 patients tested was only 15 with 8 complete and 26 partial responses and a median response duration and survival of 9 to 13 months Cobleigh et al. 1999 17 2639 2648 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Currently for anticancer therapy any small improvement in mortality rate defines success. Thus there is a significant need to enhance the capacity of antibodies to destroy targeted cancer cells.

Because all Fc Rs interact with the same binding site on Fc and because of the high homology among the Fc Rs obtaining variants that selectively increase or reduce Fc R affinity is a major challenge. Useful variants for selectively engaging activating versus inhibitory Fc Rs are not currently available. There is a need to make Fc variants that selectively increase or reduce Fc R affinity.

A challenge for development of Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties is the difference between human and murine Fc receptor biology. Fc variants are typically engineered for optimal binding to human Fc Rs. Yet experiments in animal models are important for ultimately developing a drug for clinical use in humans. In particular mouse models available for a variety of diseases are typically used to test properties such as efficacy toxicity and pharmacokinetics for a given drug candidate. There is a need for murine Fc variants.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to an Fc variant of a parent Fc polypeptide comprising at least a first and a second substitution. The first and second substitutions are each at a position selected from group consisting of 234 235 236 239 267 268 293 295 324 327 328 330 and 332 according to the EU index. The Fc variant exhibits an increase in affinity for one or more receptors selected from the group consisting of Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa as compared to the increase in a affinity of the Fc variant for the Fc RIIb receptor. The increases in affinities are relative to the parent polypeptide.

The present invention is further directed to methods of activating a receptor selected from the group consisting of Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa relative to the Fc RIIb receptor. A cell that includes the Fc RIIb receptor and one or more receptors selected from among Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa is contacted with an Fc variant described above. The method can be performed in vitro or in vivo.

In another aspect the Fc variant exhibits an increase in affinity of the Fc variant for the Fc RIIb receptor as compared to the increase in affinity for one or more activating receptors. Activating receptors include Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa. Increased affinities are relative to the parent polypeptide. The first and second substitutions each at a position selected from group consisting of 234 235 236 239 267 268 293 295 324 327 328 330 and 332 according to the EU index.

The present invention is further directed to methods of activating the Fc RIIb receptor relative to a receptor selected from Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa. The method is accomplished by contacting cell that includes the Fc RIIb receptor and one or more receptors selected from among Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa with an Fc variant described above. The method can be performed in vitro or in vivo.

In another aspect the Fc variant has a reduced level of fucosylation relative to the parent Fc variant. In a variation the Fc variant includes a glycosylated Fc region in which about 80 100 of the glycosylated Fc polypeptide in the composition having a mature core carbohydrate structure with no fucose.

The present invention also includes Fc variants of a parent mouse Fc polypeptide. In certain aspects the Fc variant includes a substitution at a position selected from the group consisting of 236 239 268 330 and 332. In further variations the Fc variant includes a substitution selected from among 236A 239D 268E 330Y and 332E.

The present invention provides isolated nucleic acids encoding the Fc variants described herein. The present invention provides vectors comprising the nucleic acids optionally operably linked to control sequences. The present invention provides host cells containing the vectors and methods for producing and optionally recovering the Fc variants.

The present invention provides novel Fc polypeptides including antibodies Fc fusions isolated Fc and Fc fragments that comprise the Fc variants disclosed herein. The novel Fc polypeptides may find use in a therapeutic product. In certain embodiments the Fc polypeptides of the invention are antibodies.

The present invention provides compositions comprising Fc polypeptides that comprise the Fc variants described herein and a physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention contemplates therapeutic and diagnostic uses for Fc polypeptides that comprise the Fc variants disclosed herein.

In order that the invention may be more completely understood several definitions are set forth below. Such definitions are meant to encompass grammatical equivalents.

By ADCC or antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell.

By ADCP or antibody dependent cell mediated phagocytosis as used herein is meant the cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause phagocytosis of the target cell.

By amino acid modification herein is meant an amino acid substitution insertion and or deletion in a polypeptide sequence. By amino acid substitution or substitution herein is meant the replacement of an amino acid at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence with another amino acid. For example the substitution L328R refers to a variant polypeptide in this case an Fc variant in which the leucine at position 328 is replaced with arginine. By amino acid insertion or insertion as used herein is meant the addition of an amino acid at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example insert G 235 236 designates an insertion of glycine between positions 235 and 236. By amino acid deletion or deletion as used herein is meant the removal of an amino acid at a particular position in a parent polypeptide sequence. For example G236 designates the deletion of glycine at position 236. Amino acids of the invention may be further classified as either isotypic or novel.

By antibody herein is meant a protein consisting of one or more polypeptides substantially encoded by all or part of the recognized immunoglobulin genes. The recognized immunoglobulin genes for example in humans include the kappa lambda and heavy chain genetic loci which together comprise the myriad variable region genes and the constant region genes mu delta gamma sigma and alpha which encode the IgM IgD IgG IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4 IgE and IgA IgA1 and IgA2 isotypes respectively. Antibody herein is meant to include full length antibodies and antibody fragments and may refer to a natural antibody from any organism an engineered antibody or an antibody generated recombinantly for experimental therapeutic or other purposes.

By CDC or complement dependent cytotoxicity as used herein is meant the reaction wherein one or more complement protein components recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell.

By isotypic modification as used herein is meant an amino acid modification that converts one amino acid of one isotype to the corresponding amino amino acid in a different aligned isotype. For example because IgG1 has a tyrosine and IgG2 a phenylalanine at EU position 296 a F296Y substitution in IgG2 is considered an isotypic modification.

By novel modification as used herein is meant an amino acid modification that is not isotypic. For example because none of the IgGs has a glutamic acid at position 332 the substitution I332E in IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4 is considered a novel modification.

By amino acid and amino acid identity as used herein is meant one of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids or any non natural analogues that may be present at a specific defined position.

By effector function as used herein is meant a biochemical event that results from the interaction of an antibody Fc region with an Fc receptor or ligand. Effector functions include Fc R mediated effector functions such as ADCC and ADCP and complement mediated effector functions such as CDC.

By effector cell as used herein is meant a cell of the immune system that expresses one or more Fc receptors and mediates one or more effector functions. Effector cells include but are not limited to monocytes macrophages neutrophils dendritic cells eosinophils mast cells platelets B cells large granular lymphocytes Langerhans cells natural killer NK cells and T cells and may be from any organism including but not limited to humans mice rats rabbits and monkeys.

By Fab or Fab region as used herein is meant the polypeptides that comprise the V CH1 V and Cimmunoglobulin domains. Fab may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of a full length antibody or antibody fragment.

By Fc or Fc region as used herein is meant the polypeptide comprising the constant region of an antibody excluding the first constant region immunoglobulin domain. Thus Fc refers to the last two constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgA IgD and IgG and the last three constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgE and IgM and the flexible hinge N terminal to these domains. For IgA and IgM Fc may include the J chain. For IgG as illustrated in Fc comprises immunoglobulin domains Cgamma2 and Cgamma3 C 2 and C 3 and the hinge between Cgamma1 C 1 and Cgamma2 C 2 . Although the boundaries of the Fc region may vary the human IgG heavy chain Fc region is usually defined to comprise residues C226 or P230 to its carboxyl terminus wherein the numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat. Fc may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of an Fc polypeptide as described below. By Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant a polypeptide that comprises all or part of an Fc region. Fc polypeptides include antibodies Fc fusions isolated Fcs and Fc fragments.

By Fc fusion as used herein is meant a protein wherein one or more polypeptides is operably linked to Fc. Fc fusion is herein meant to be synonymous with the terms immunoadhesin Ig fusion Ig chimera and receptor globulin sometimes with dashes as used in the prior art Chamow et al. 1996 14 52 60 Ashkenazi at al. 1997 9 195 200 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . An Fc fusion combines the Fc region of an immunoglobulin with a fusion partner which in general may be any protein polypeptide or small molecule. The role of the non Fc part of an Fc fusion i.e. the fusion partner is to mediate target binding and thus it is functionally analogous to the variable regions of an antibody. Virtually any protein or small molecule may be linked to Fc to generate an Fc fusion. Protein fusion partners may include but are not limited to the target binding region of a receptor an adhesion molecule a ligand an enzyme a cytokine a chemokine or some other protein or protein domain. Small molecule fusion partners may include any therapeutic agent that directs the Fc fusion to a therapeutic target. Such targets may be any molecule preferrably an extracellular receptor that is implicated in disease.

By Fc gamma receptor or Fc R as used herein is meant any member of the family of proteins that bind the IgG antibody Fc region and are substantially encoded by the Fc R genes. In humans this family includes but is not limited to Fc RI CD64 including isoforms Fc RIa Fc RIb and Fc RIc Fc RII CD32 including isoforms Fc RIIa including allotypes H131 and R131 Fc RIIb including Fc RIIb 1 and Fc RIIb 2 and Fc RIIc and Fc RIII CD16 including isoforms Fc RIIIa including allotypes V158 and F158 and Fc RIIIb including allotypes Fc RIIIb NA1 and Fc RIIIb NA2 Jefferis et al. 2002 82 57 65 hereby entirely incorporated by reference as well as any undiscovered human Fc Rs or Fc R isoforms or allotypes. An Fc R may be from any organism including but not limited to humans mice rats rabbits and monkeys. Mouse Fc Rs include but are not limited to Fc RI CD64 Fc RII CD32 Fc RIII CD16 and Fc RIII 2 CD16 2 as well as any undiscovered mouse Fc Rs or Fc R isoforms or allotypes.

By Fc receptor or Fc ligand as used herein is meant a molecule preferably a polypeptide from any organism that binds to the Fc region of an antibody to form an Fc Fc ligand complex. Fc ligands include but are not limited to Fc Rs Fc Rs Fc Rs FcRn C1q C3 mannan binding lectin mannose receptor staphylococcal protein A streptococcal protein G and viral Fc R. Fc ligands also include Fc receptor homologs FcRH which are a family of Fc receptors that are homologous to the Fc Rs Davis et al. 2002 190 123 136 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Fc ligands may include undiscovered molecules that bind Fc.

By full length antibody as used herein is meant the structure that constitutes the natural biological form of an antibody including variable and constant regions. For example in most mammals including humans and mice the full length antibody of the IgG isotype is a tetramer and consists of two identical pairs of two immunoglobulin chains each pair having one light and one heavy chain each light chain comprising immunoglobulin domains Vand C and each heavy chain comprising immunoglobulin domains V C 1 C 2 and C 3. In some mammals for example in camels and llamas IgG antibodies may consist of only two heavy chains each heavy chain comprising a variable domain attached to the Fc region.

By IgG as used herein is meant a polypeptide belonging to the class of antibodies that are substantially encoded by a recognized immunoglobulin gamma gene. In humans this IgG comprises the subclasses or isotypes IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4. In mice IgG comprises IgG1 IgG2a IgG2b IgG3.

By immunoglobulin Ig herein is meant a protein consisting of one or more polypeptides substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes. Immunoglobulins include but are not limited to antibodies. Immunoglobulins may have a number of structural forms including but not limited to full length antibodies antibody fragments and individual immunoglobulin domains.

By immunoglobulin Ig domain as used herein is meant a region of an immunoglobulin that exists as a distinct structural entity as ascertained by one skilled in the art of protein structure. Ig domains typically have a characteristic sandwich folding topology. The known Ig domains in the IgG isotype of antibodies are V C 1 C 2 C 3 V and C.

By IgG or IgG immunoglobulin as used herein is meant a polypeptide belonging to the class of antibodies that are substantially encoded by a recognized immunoglobulin gamma gene. In humans this class comprises the subclasses or isotypes IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4. By isotype as used herein is meant any of the subclasses of immunoglobulins defined by the chemical and antigenic characteristics of their constant regions. The known human immunoglobulin isotypes are IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 IgA2 IgM IgD and IgE.

By parent polypeptide parent protein precursor polypeptide or precursor protein as used herein is meant an unmodified polypeptide that is subsequently modified to generate a variant. The parent polypeptide may be a naturally occurring polypeptide or a variant or engineered version of a naturally occurring polypeptide. Parent polypeptide may refer to the polypeptide itself compositions that comprise the parent polypeptide or the amino acid sequence that encodes it. Accordingly by parent Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant an Fc polypeptide that is modified to generate a variant and by parent antibody as used herein is meant an antibody that is modified to generate a variant antibody.

By position as used herein is meant a location in the sequence of a protein. Positions may be numbered sequentially or according to an established format for example the EU index as in Kabat. For example position 297 is a position in the human antibody IgG1.

By polypeptide or protein as used herein is meant at least two covalently attached amino acids which includes proteins polypeptides oligopeptides and peptides.

By residue as used herein is meant a position in a protein and its associated amino acid identity. For example Asparagine 297 also referred to as Asn297 also referred to as N297 is a residue in the human antibody IgG1.

By target antigen as used herein is meant the molecule that is bound specifically by the variable region of a given antibody. A target antigen may be a protein carbohydrate lipid or other chemical compound.

By variable region as used herein is meant the region of an immunoglobulin that comprises one or more Ig domains substantially encoded by any of the V V and or Vgenes that make up the kappa lambda and heavy chain immunoglobulin genetic loci respectively.

By variant polypeptide polypeptide variant or variant as used herein is meant a polypeptide sequence that differs from that of a parent polypeptide sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. The parent polypeptide may be a naturally occurring or wild type WT polypeptide or may be a modified version of a WT polypeptide. Variant polypeptide may refer to the polypeptide itself a composition comprising the polypeptide or the amino sequence that encodes it. Preferably the variant polypeptide has at least one amino acid modification compared to the parent polypeptide e.g. from about one to about ten amino acid modifications and preferably from about one to about five amino acid modifications compared to the parent. The variant polypeptide sequence herein will preferably possess at least about 80 homology with a parent polypeptide sequence and most preferably at least about 90 homology more preferably at least about 95 homology. Accordingly by Fc variant or variant Fc as used herein is meant an Fc sequence that differs from that of a parent Fc sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. An Fc variant may only encompass an Fc region or may exist in the context of an antibody Fc fusion isolated Fc Fc fragment or other polypeptide that is substantially encoded by Fc. Fc variant may refer to the Fc polypeptide itself compositions comprising the Fc variant polypeptide or the amino acid sequence that encodes it. By Fc polypeptide variant or variant Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant an Fc polypeptide that differs from a parent Fc polyeptide by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. By protein variant or variant protein as used herein is meant a protein that differs from a parent protein by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. By antibody variant or variant antibody as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent antibody by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. By IqG variant or variant IgG as used herein is meant an antibody that differs from a parent IgG by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. By immunoglobulin variant or variant immunoglobluin as used herein is meant an immunoglobulin sequence that differs from that of a parent immunoglobulin sequence by virtue of at least one amino acid modification.

By wild type or WT herein is meant an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that is found in nature including allelic variations. A WT protein polypeptide antibody immunoglobulin IgG etc. has an amino acid sequence or a nucleotide sequence that has not been intentionally modified.

Antibodies are immunological proteins that bind a specific antigen. In most mammals including humans and mice antibodies are constructed from paired heavy and light polypeptide chains. The light and heavy chain variable regions show significant sequence diversity between antibodies and are responsible for binding the target antigen. Each chain is made up of individual immunoglobulin Ig domains and thus the generic term immunoglobulin is used for such proteins.

Traditional antibody structural units typically comprise a tetramer. Each tetramer is typically composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light typically having a molecular weight of about 25 kDa and one heavy chain typically having a molecular weight of about 50 70 kDa . Human light chains are classified as kappa and lambda light chains. Heavy chains are classified as mu delta gamma alpha or epsilon and define the antibody s isotype as IgM IgD IgG IgA and IgE respectively. IgG has several subclasses including but not limited to IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 and IgG4. IgM has subclasses including but not limited to IgM1 and IgM2. IgA has several subclasses including but not limited to IgA1 and IgA2. Thus isotype as used herein is meant any of the subclasses of immunoglobulins defined by the chemical and antigenic characteristics of their constant regions. The known human immunoglobulin isotypes are IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 IgA2 IgM1 IgM2 IgD and IgE.

Each of the light and heavy chains are made up of two distinct regions referred to as the variable and constant regions. The IgG heavy chain is composed of four immunoglobulin domains linked from N to C terminus in the order V CH1 CH2 CH3 referring to the heavy chain variable domain heavy chain constant domain 1 heavy chain constant domain 2 and heavy chain constant domain 3 respectively also referred to as V C 1 C 2 C 3 referring to the heavy chain variable domain constant gamma 1 domain constant gamma 2 domain and constant gamma 3 domain respectively . The IgG light chain is composed of two immunoglobulin domains linked from N to C terminus in the order V C referring to the light chain variable domain and the light chain constant domain respectively. The constant regions show less sequence diversity and are responsible for binding a number of natural proteins to elicit important biochemical events. The distinguishing features between these antibody classes are their constant regions although subtler differences may exist in the V region.

The variable region of an antibody contains the antigen binding determinants of the molecule and thus determines the specificity of an antibody for its target antigen. The variable region is so named because it is the most distinct in sequence from other antibodies within the same class. The amino terminal portion of each chain includes a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. In the variable region three loops are gathered for each of the V domains of the heavy chain and light chain to form an antigen binding site. Each of the loops is referred to as a complementarity determining region hereinafter referred to as a CDR in which the variation in the amino acid sequence is most significant. There are 6 CDRs total three each per heavy and light chain designated VCDR1 VCDR2 VCDR3 VCDR1 VCDR2 and VCDR3. The variable region outside of the CDRs is referred to as the framework FR region. Although not as diverse as the CDRs sequence variability does occur in the FR region between different antibodies. Overall this characteristic architecture of antibodies provides a stable scaffold the FR region upon which substantial antigen binding diversity the CDRs can be explored by the immune system to obtain specificity for a broad array of antigens. A number of high resolution structures are available for a variety of variable region fragments from different organisms some unbound and some in complex with antigen.

Sequence and structural features of antibody variable regions are disclosed for example in Morea et al. 1997 68 9 16 Morea et al. 2000 20 267 279 hereby entirely incorporated by reference and the conserved features of antibodies are disclosed for example in Maynard et al. 2000 2 339 376 hereby entirely incorporated by reference.

The carboxy terminal portion of each chain defines a constant region primarily responsible for effector function. Kabat et al. collected numerous primary sequences of the variable regions of heavy chains and light chains. Based on the degree of conservation of the sequences they classified individual primary sequences into the CDR and the framework and made a list thereof see SEQUENCES OF IMMUNOLOGICAL INTEREST 5th edition NIH publication No. 91 3242 E. A. Kabat et al. .

In the IgG subclass of immunoglobulins there are several immunoglobulin domains in the heavy chain. By immunoglobulin Ig domain herein is meant a region of an immunoglobulin having a distinct tertiary structure. Of interest in the present invention are the heavy chain domains including the constant heavy CH domains and the hinge domains. In the context of IgG antibodies the IgG isotypes each have three CH regions. Accordingly CH domains in the context of IgG are as follows CH1 refers to positions 118 220 according to the EU index as in Kabat. CH2 refers to positions 237 340 according to the EU index as in Kabat and CH3 refers to positions 341 447 according to the EU index as in Kabat.

Another type of Ig domain of the heavy chain is the hinge region. By hinge or hinge region or antibody hinge region or immunoglobulin hinge region herein is meant the flexible polypeptide comprising the amino acids between the first and second constant domains of an antibody. Structurally the IgG CH1 domain ends at EU position 220 and the IgG CH2 domain begins at residue EU position 237. Thus for IgG the antibody hinge is herein defined to include positions 221 D221 in IgG1 to 236 G236 in IgG1 wherein the numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat. In some embodiments for example in the context of an Fc region the lower hinge is included with the lower hinge generally referring to positions 226 or 230.

Of particular interest in the present invention are the Fc regions. By Fc or Fc region as used herein is meant the polypeptide comprising the constant region of an antibody excluding the first constant region immunoglobulin domain and in some cases part of the hinge. Thus Fc refers to the last two constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgA IgD and IgG and the last three constant region immunoglobulin domains of IgE and IgM and the flexible hinge N terminal to these domains. For IgA and IgM Fc may include the J chain. For IgG Fc comprises immunoglobulin domains Cgamma2 and Cgamma3 C 2 and C 3 and the lower hinge region between Cgamma1 C 1 and Cgamma2 C 2 . Although the boundaries of the Fc region may vary the human IgG heavy chain Fc region is usually defined to include residues C226 or P230 to its carboxyl terminus wherein the numbering is according to the EU index as in Kabat. Fc may refer to this region in isolation or this region in the context of an Fc polypeptide as described below. By Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant a polypeptide that comprises all or part of an Fc region. Fc polypeptides include antibodies Fc fusions isolated Fcs and Fc fragments.

An Fc variant comprises one or more amino acid modifications relative to a parent Fc polypeptide wherein the amino acid modification s provide one or more optimized properties. An Fc variant of the present invention differs in amino acid sequence from its parent IgG by virtue of at least one amino acid modification. Thus Fc variants of the present invention have at least one amino acid modification compared to the parent. Alternatively the Fc variants of the present invention may have more than one amino acid modification as compared to the parent for example from about one to fifty amino acid modifications preferrably from about one to ten amino acid modifications and most preferably from about one to about five amino acid modifications compared to the parent. Thus the sequences of the Fc variants and those of the parent Fc polypeptide are substantially homologous. For example the variant Fc variant sequences herein will possess about 80 homology with the parent Fc variant sequence preferably at least about 90 homology and most preferably at least about 95 homology. Modifications may be made genetically using molecular biology or may be made enzymatically or chemically.

The Fc variants of the present invention may be substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes belonging to any of the antibody classes. In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention find use in antibodies or Fc fusions that comprise sequences belonging to the IgG class of antibodies including IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 or IgG4. provides an alignment of these human IgG sequences. In an alternate embodiment the Fc variants of the present invention find use in antibodies or Fc fusions that comprise sequences belonging to the IgA including subclasses IgA1 and IgA2 IgD IgE IgG or IgM classes of antibodies. The Fc variants of the present invention may comprise more than one protein chain. That is the present invention may find use in an antibody or Fc fusion that is a monomer or an oligomer including a homo or hetero oligomer.

In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the invention are based on human IgG sequences and thus human IgG sequences are used as the base sequences against which other sequences are compared including but not limited to sequences from other organisms for example rodent and primate sequences. Fc variants may also comprise sequences from other immunoglobulin classes such as IgA IgE IgGD IgGM and the like. It is contemplated that although the Fc variants of the present invention are engineered in the context of one parent IgG the variants may be engineered in or transferred to the context of another second parent IgG. This is done by determining the equivalent or corresponding residues and substitutions between the first and second IgG typically based on sequence or structural homology between the sequences of the first and second IgGs. In order to establish homology the amino acid sequence of a first IgG outlined herein is directly compared to the sequence of a second IgG. After aligning the sequences using one or more of the homology alignment programs known in the art for example using conserved residues as between species allowing for necessary insertions and deletions in order to maintain alignment i.e. avoiding the elimination of conserved residues through arbitrary deletion and insertion the residues equivalent to particular amino acids in the primary sequence of the first Fc variant are defined. Alignment of conserved residues preferably should conserve 100 of such residues. However alignment of greater than 75 or as little as 50 of conserved residues is also adequate to define equivalent residues. Equivalent residues may also be defined by determining structural homology between a first and second IgG that is at the level of tertiary structure for IgGs whose structures have been determined. In this case equivalent residues are defined as those for which the atomic coordinates of two or more of the main chain atoms of a particular amino acid residue of the parent or precursor N on N CA on CA C on C and O on O are within about 0.13 nm and preferably about 0.1 nm after alignment. Alignment is achieved after the best model has been oriented and positioned to give the maximum overlap of atomic coordinates of non hydrogen protein atoms of the proteins. Regardless of how equivalent or corresponding residues are determined and regardless of the identity of the parent IgG in which the IgGs are made what is meant to be conveyed is that the Fc variants discovered by the present invention may be engineered into any second parent IgG that has significant sequence or structural homology with the Fc variant. Thus for example if a variant antibody is generated wherein the parent antibody is human IgG1 by using the methods described above or other methods for determining equivalent residues the variant antibody may be engineered in another IgG1 parent antibody that binds a different antigen a human IgG2 parent antibody a human IgA parent antibody a mouse IgG2a or IgG2b parent antibody and the like. Again as described above the context of the parent Fc variant does not affect the ability to transfer the Fc variants of the present invention to other parent IgGs.

The Fc variants of the present invention are defined according to the amino acid modifications that compose them. Thus for example I332E is an Fc variant with the substitution I332E relative to the parent Fc polypeptide. Likewise S239D I332E G236A defines an Fc variant with the substitutions S239D I332E and G236A relative to the parent Fc polypeptide. The identity of the WT amino acid may be unspecified in which case the aforementioned variant is referred to as 239D 332E 236A. It is noted that the order in which substitutions are provided is arbitrary that is to say that for example S239D I332E G236A is the same Fc variant as G236A S239D I332E and so on. For all positions discussed in the present invention numbering is according to the EU index or EU numbering scheme Kabat et al. 1991 5th Ed. United States Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda hereby entirely incorporated by reference . The EU index or EU index as in Kabat or EU numbering scheme refers to the numbering of the EU antibody Edelman et al. 1969 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 63 78 85 hereby entirely incorporated by reference .

The Fc region of an antibody interacts with a number of Fc receptors and ligands imparting an array of important functional capabilities referred to as effector functions. For IgG the Fc region Fc comprises Ig domains C 2 and C 3 and the N terminal hinge leading into C 2. An important family of Fc receptors for the IgG class are the Fc gamma receptors Fc Rs . These receptors mediate communication between antibodies and the cellular arm of the immune system Raghavan et al. 1996 12 181 220 Ravetch et al. 2001 19 275 290 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . In humans this protein family includes Fc RI CD64 including isoforms Fc RIa Fc RIb and Fc RIc Fc RII CD32 including isoforms Fc RIIa including allotypes H131 and R131 Fc RIIb including Fc RIIb 1 and Fc RIIb 2 and Fc RIIc and Fc RIII CD16 including isoforms Fc RIIIa including allotypes V158 and F158 and Fc RIIIb including allotypes Fc RIIIb NA1 and Fc RIIIb NA2 Jefferis et al. 2002 82 57 65 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . These receptors typically have an extracellular domain that mediates binding to Fc a membrane spanning region and an intracellular domain that may mediate some signaling event within the cell. These receptors are expressed in a variety of immune cells including monocytes macrophages neutrophils dendritic cells eosinophils mast cells platelets B cells large granular lymphocytes Langerhans cells natural killer NK cells and T cells. Formation of the Fc Fc R complex recruits these effector cells to sites of bound antigen typically resulting in signaling events within the cells and important subsequent immune responses such as release of inflammation mediators B cell activation endocytosis phagocytosis and cytotoxic attack. The ability to mediate cytotoxic and phagocytic effector functions is a potential mechanism by which antibodies destroy targeted cells. The cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell is referred to as antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC Raghavan et al. 1996 12 181 220 Ghetie et al. 2000 18 739 766 Ravetch et al. 2001 19 275 290 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . The cell mediated reaction wherein nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc Rs recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause phagocytosis of the target cell is referred to as antibody dependent cell mediated phagocytosis ADCP .

The different IgG subclasses have different affinities for the Fc Rs with IgG1 and IgG3 typically binding substantially better to the receptors than IgG2 and IgG4 Jefferis et al. 2002 82 57 65 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . The Fc Rs bind the IgG Fc region with different affinities the high affinity binder Fc RI has a Kd for IgG1 of 10M whereas the low affinity receptors Fc RII and Fc RIII generally bind at 10and 10respectively. The extracellular domains of Fc RIIIa and Fc RIIIb are 96 identical however Fc RIIIb does not have a intracellular signaling domain. Furthermore whereas Fc RI Fc RIIa c and Fc RIIIa are positive regulators of immune complex triggered activation characterized by having an intracellular domain that has an immunoreceptor tyrosine based activation motif ITAM Fc RIIb has an immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibition motif ITIM and is therefore inhibitory. Thus the former are referred to as activation receptors and Fc RIIb is referred to as an inhibitory receptor. Despite these differences in affinities and activities all Fc Rs bind the same region on Fc at the N terminal end of the C 2 domain and the preceding hinge. This interaction is well characterized structurally Sondermann et al. 2001 309 737 749 hereby entirely incorporated by reference and several structures of the human Fc bound to the extracellular domain of human Fc RIIIb have been solved pdb accession code 1E4K Sondermann et al. 2000 406 267 273 hereby entirely incorporated by reference pdb accession codes 1IIS and 1IIX Radaev et al. 2001 276 16469 16477 hereby entirely incorporated by reference .

An overlapping but separate site on Fc serves as the interface for the complement protein C1q. In the same way that Fc Fc R binding mediates ADCC Fc C1q binding mediates complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC . A site on Fc between the C 2 and C 3 domains mediates interaction with the neonatal receptor FcRn the binding of which recycles endocytosed antibody from the endosome back to the bloodstream Raghavan et al. 1996 12 181 220 Ghetie et al. 2000 18 739 766 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . This process coupled with preclusion of kidney filtration due to the large size of the full length molecule results in favorable antibody serum half lives ranging from one to three weeks. Binding of Fc to FcRn also plays a key role in antibody transport. The binding site for FcRn on Fc is also the site at which the bacterial proteins A and G bind. The tight binding by these proteins is typically exploited as a means to purify antibodies by employing protein A or protein G affinity chromatography during protein purification. The fidelity of these regions the complement and FcRn proteinA binding regions are important for both the clinical properties of antibodies and their development.

A key feature of the Fc region is the conserved N linked glycosylation that occurs at N297. This carbohydrate or oligosaccharide as it is sometimes referred plays a critical structural and functional role for the antibody and is one of the principle reasons that antibodies must be produced using mammalian expression systems. Efficient Fc binding to Fc R and C1q requires this modification and alterations in the composition of the N297 carbohydrate or its elimination affect binding to these proteins Uma a et al. 1999 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 74 288 294 Mimura et al. 2001 276 45539 45547. Radaev et al. 2001 276 16478 16483 Shields et al. 2001 276 6591 6604 Shields et al. 2002 277 26733 26740 Simmons et al. 2002 263 133 147 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference .

Fc variants of the present invention may be substantially encoded by genes from any organism preferably mammals including but not limited to humans rodents including but not limited to mice and rats lagomorpha including but not limited to rabbits and hares camelidae including but not limited to camels llamas and dromedaries and non human primates including but not limited to Prosimians Platyrrhini New World monkeys Cercopithecoidea Old World monkeys and Hominoidea including the Gibbons and Lesser and Great Apes. In a certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention are substantially human.

As is well known in the art immunoglobulin polymorphisms exist in the human population. Gm polymorphism is determined by the IGHG1 IGHG2 and IGHG3 genes which have alleles encoding allotypic antigenic determinants referred to as G1 m G2m and G3m allotypes for markers of the human IgG1 IgG2 and IgG3 molecules no Gm allotypes have been found on the gamma 4 chain . Markers may be classified into allotypes and isoallotypes . These are distinguished on different serological bases dependent upon the strong sequence homologies between isotypes. Allotypes are antigenic determinants specified by allelic forms of the Ig genes. Allotypes represent slight differences in the amino acid sequences of heavy or light chains of different individuals. Even a single amino acid difference can give rise to an allotypic determinant although in many cases there are several amino acid substitutions that have occurred. Allotypes are sequence differences between alleles of a subclass whereby the antisera recognize only the allelic differences. An isoallotype is an allele in one isotype which produces an epitope which is shared with a non polymorphic homologous region of one or more other isotypes and because of this the antisera will react with both the relevant allotypes and the relevant homologous isotypes Clark 1997 IgG effector mechanisms Chem Immunol. 65 88 110 Gorman Clark 1990 Semin Immunol 2 6 457 66 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference .

Allelic forms of human immunoglobulins have been well characterized WHO Review of the notation for the allotypic and related markers of human immunoglobulins. J Immunogen 1976 3 357 362 WHO Review of the notation for the allotypic and related markers of human immunoglobulins. 1976 Eur. J. Immunol. 6 599 601 Loghem E van 1986 Allotypic markers Monogr Allergy 19 40 51 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Additionally other polymorphisms have been characterized Kim et al. 2001 J. Mol. Evol. 54 1 9 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . At present 18 Gm allotypes are known G1m 1 2 3 17 or G1m a x f z G2m 23 or G2m n G3m 5 6 10 11 13 14 15 16 21 24 26 27 28 or G3m b1 c3 b5 b0 b3 b4 s t g1 c5 u v g5 Lefranc et al. The human IgG subclasses molecular analysis of structure function and regulation. Pergamon Oxford pp. 43 78 1990 Lefranc G. et al. 1979 Hum. Genet. 50 199 211 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Allotypes that are inherited in fixed combinations are called Gm haplotypes. shows common haplotypes of the gamma chain of human IgG1 and IgG2 showing the positions and the relevant amino acid substitutions. The Fc variants of the present invention may be substantially encoded by any allotype isoallotype or haplotype of any immunoglobulin gene.

Alternatively the antibodies can be a variety of structures including but not limited to antibody fragments monoclonal antibodies bispecific antibodies minibodies domain antibodies synthetic antibodies sometimes referred to herein as antibody mimetics chimeric antibodies humanized antibodies antibody fusions sometimes referred to as antibody conjugates and fragments of each respectively.

In one embodiment the antibody is an antibody fragment. Of particular interest are antibodies that comprise Fc regions Fc fusions and the constant region of the heavy chain CH1 hinge CH2 CH3 again also including constant heavy region fusions.

Specific antibody fragments include but are not limited to i the Fab fragment consisting of VL VH CL and CH1 domains ii the Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CH1 domains iii the Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single antibody iv the dAb fragment Ward et al. 1989 Nature 341 544 546 which consists of a single variable v isolated CDR regions vi F ab 2 fragments a bivalent fragment comprising two linked Fab fragments vii single chain Fv molecules scFv wherein a VH domain and a VL domain are linked by a peptide linker which allows the two domains to associate to form an antigen binding site Bird et al. 1988 Science 242 423 426 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 5879 5883 viii bispecific single chain Fv dimers PCT US92 09965 and ix diabodies or triabodies multivalent or multispecific fragments constructed by gene fusion Tomlinson et. al. 2000 Methods Enzymol. 326 461 479 WO94 13804 Holliger et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 6444 6448 . The antibody fragments may be modified. For example the molecules may be stabilized by the incorporation of disulphide bridges linking the VH and VL domains Reiter et al. 1996 Nature Biotech. 14 1239 1245 .

In one embodiment the antibodies of the invention multispecific antibody and notably a bispecific antibody also sometimes referred to as diabodies . These are antibodies that bind to two or more different antigens. Diabodies can be manufactured in a variety of ways known in the art Holliger and Winter 1993 Current Opinion Biotechnol. 4 446 449 e.g. prepared chemically or from hybrid hybridomas. In one embodiment the antibody is a minibody. Minibodies are minimized antibody like proteins comprising a scFv joined to a CH3 domain. Hu et al. 1996 Cancer Res. 56 3055 3061. In some cases the scFv can be joined to the Fc region and may include some or all of the hinge region.

In some embodiments the scaffold components can be a mixture from different species. As such if the antibody is an antibody such antibody may be a chimeric antibody and or a humanized antibody. In general both chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies refer to antibodies that combine regions from more than one species. For example chimeric antibodies traditionally comprise variable region s from a mouse or rat in some cases and the constant region s from a human. Humanized antibodies generally refer to non human antibodies that have had the variable domain framework regions swapped for sequences found in human antibodies. Generally in a humanized antibody the entire antibody except the CDRs is encoded by a polynucleotide of human origin or is identical to such an antibody except within its CDRs. The CDRs some or all of which are encoded by nucleic acids originating in a non human organism are grafted into the beta sheet framework of a human antibody variable region to create an antibody the specificity of which is determined by the engrafted CDRs. The creation of such antibodies is described in e.g. WO 92 11018 Jones 1986 Nature 321 522 525 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 1536. Backmutation of selected acceptor framework residues to the corresponding donor residues is often required to regain affinity that is lost in the initial grafted construct U.S. Pat. No. 5 530 101 U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 761 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 762 U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 370 U.S. Pat. No. 5 859 205 U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 213 . The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region typically that of a human immunoglobulin and thus will typically comprise a human Fc region. Humanized antibodies can also be generated using mice with a genetically engineered immune system. Roque et al. 2004 Biotechnol. Prog. 20 639 654. A variety of techniques and methods for humanizing and reshaping non human antibodies are well known in the art See Tsurushita Vasquez 2004 Humanization of Monoclonal Antibodies Molecular Biology of B Cells 533 545 Elsevier Science USA and references cited therein . Humanization methods include but are not limited to methods described in Jones et al. 1986 321 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988 332 323 329 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 239 1534 1536 Queen et al. 1989 86 10029 33 He et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 1029 1035 Carter et al. 1992 89 4285 9 Presta et al. 1997 Cancer Res.57 20 4593 9 Gorman et al. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 4181 4185 O Connor et al. 1998 11 321 8. Humanization or other methods of reducing the immunogenicity of nonhuman antibody variable regions may include resurfacing methods as described for example in Roguska et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 969 973. In one embodiment the parent antibody has been affinity matured as is known in the art. Structure based methods may be employed for humanization and affinity maturation for example as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590. Selection based methods may be employed to humanize and or affinity mature antibody variable regions including but not limited to methods described in Wu et al. 1999 J. Mol. Biol. 294 151 162 Baca et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 16 10678 10684 Rosok et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 37 22611 22618 Rader et al. 1998 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 8910 8915 Krauss et al. 2003 Protein Engineering 16 10 753 759. Other humanization methods may involve the grafting of only parts of the CDRs including but not limited to methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 09 810 502 Tan et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 1119 1125 De Pascalis et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 3076 3084.

In one embodiment the antibody is a fully human antibody with at least one modification as outlined herein. Fully human antibody or complete human antibody refers to a human antibody having the gene sequence of an antibody derived from a human chromosome with the modifications outlined herein. Fully human antibodies may be obtained for example using transgenic mice Bruggemann et al. 1997 8 455 458 or human antibody libraries coupled with selection methods Griffiths et al. 1998 9 102 108 .

In one embodiment the antibodies of the invention are antibody fusion proteins sometimes referred to herein as an antibody conjugate . One type of antibody fusions are Fc fusions which join the Fc region with a conjugate partner. By Fc fusion as used herein is meant a protein wherein one or more polypeptides is operably linked to an Fc region. Fc fusion is herein meant to be synonymous with the terms immunoadhesin Ig fusion Ig chimera and receptor globulin sometimes with dashes as used in the prior art Chamow et al. 1996 Trends Biotechnol 14 52 60 Ashkenazi et al. 1997 Curr Opin Immunol 9 195 200 . An Fc fusion combines the Fc region of an immunoglobulin with a fusion partner which in general can be any protein or small molecule. Virtually any protein or small molecule may be linked to Fc to generate an Fc fusion. Protein fusion partners may include but are not limited to the variable region of any antibody the target binding region of a receptor an adhesion molecule a ligand an enzyme a cytokine a chemokine or some other protein or protein domain. Small molecule fusion partners may include any therapeutic agent that directs the Fc fusion to a therapeutic target. Such targets may be any molecule preferably an extracellular receptor that is implicated in disease.

In addition to antibodies an antibody like protein that is finding an expanding role in research and therapy is the Fc fusion Chamow et al. 1996 14 52 60 Ashkenazi et al. 1997 9 195 200 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . An Fc fusion is a protein wherein one or more polypeptides is operably linked to Fc. An Fc fusion combines the Fc region of an antibody and thus its favorable effector functions and pharmacokinetics with the target binding region of a receptor ligand or some other protein or protein domain. The role of the latter is to mediate target recognition and thus it is functionally analogous to the antibody variable region. Because of the structural and functional overlap of Fc fusions with antibodies the discussion on antibodies in the present invention extends also to Fc fusions.

In addition to Fc fusions antibody fusions include the fusion of the constant region of the heavy chain with one or more fusion partners again including the variable region of any antibody while other antibody fusions are substantially or completely full length antibodies with fusion partners. In one embodiment a role of the fusion partner is to mediate target binding and thus it is functionally analogous to the variable regions of an antibody and in fact can be . Virtually any protein or small molecule may be linked to Fc to generate an Fc fusion or antibody fusion . Protein fusion partners may include but are not limited to the target binding region of a receptor an adhesion molecule a ligand an enzyme a cytokine a chemokine or some other protein or protein domain. Small molecule fusion partners may include any therapeutic agent that directs the Fc fusion to a therapeutic target. Such targets may be any molecule preferably an extracellular receptor that is implicated in disease.

The conjugate partner can be proteinaceous or non proteinaceous the latter generally being generated using functional groups on the antibody and on the conjugate partner. For example linkers are known in the art for example homo or hetero bifunctional linkers as are well known see 1994 Pierce Chemical Company catalog technical section on cross linkers pages 155 200 incorporated herein by reference .

Suitable conjugates include but are not limited to labels as described below drugs and cytotoxic agents including but not limited to cytotoxic drugs e.g. chemotherapeutic agents or toxins or active fragments of such toxins. Suitable toxins and their corresponding fragments include diptheria A chain exotoxin A chain ricin A chain abrin A chain curcin crotin phenomycin enomycin and the like. Cytotoxic agents also include radiochemicals made by conjugating radioisotopes to antibodies or binding of a radionuclide to a chelating agent that has been covalently attached to the antibody. Additional embodiments utilize calicheamicin auristatins geldanamycin maytansine and duocarmycins and analogs for the latter see U.S. 2003 0050331 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Covalent modifications of antibodies are included within the scope of this invention and are generally but not always done post translationally. For example several types of covalent modifications of the antibody are introduced into the molecule by reacting specific amino acid residues of the antibody with an organic derivatizing agent that is capable of reacting with selected side chains or the N or C terminal residues.

Cysteinyl residues most commonly are reacted with haloacetates and corresponding amines such as chloroacetic acid or chloroacetamide to give carboxymethyl or carboxyamidomethyl derivatives. Cysteinyl residues also are derivatized by reaction with bromotrifluoroacetone bromo 5 imidozoyl propionic acid chloroacetyl phosphate N alkylmaleimides 3 nitro 2 pyridyl disulfide methyl 2 pyridyl disulfide p chloromercuribenzoate 2 chloromercuri 4 nitrophenol or chloro 7 nitrobenzo 2 oxa 1 3 diazole.

Histidyl residues are derivatized by reaction with diethylpyrocarbonate at pH 5.5 7.0 because this agent is relatively specific for the histidyl side chain. Para bromophenacyl bromide also is useful the reaction is preferably performed in 0.1M sodium cacodylate at pH 6.0.

Lysinyl and amino terminal residues are reacted with succinic or other carboxylic acid anhydrides. Derivatization with these agents has the effect of reversing the charge of the lysinyl residues. Other suitable reagents for derivatizing alpha amino containing residues include imidoesters such as methyl picolinimidate pyridoxal phosphate pyridoxal chloroborohydride trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid O methylisourea 2 4 pentanedione and transaminase catalyzed reaction with glyoxylate.

Arginyl residues are modified by reaction with one or several conventional reagents among them phenylglyoxal 2 3 butanedione 1 2 cyclohexanedione and ninhydrin. Derivatization of arginine residues requires that the reaction be performed in alkaline conditions because of the high pKa of the guanidine functional group. Furthermore these reagents may react with the groups of lysine as well as the arginine epsilon amino group.

The specific modification of tyrosyl residues may be made with particular interest in introducing spectral labels into tyrosyl residues by reaction with aromatic diazonium compounds or tetranitromethane. Most commonly N acetylimidizole and tetranitromethane are used to form O acetyl tyrosyl species and 3 nitro derivatives respectively. Tyrosyl residues are iodinated using 125I or 131I to prepare labeled proteins for use in radioimmunoassay the chloramine T method described above being suitable.

Carboxyl side groups aspartyl or glutamyl are selectively modified by reaction with carbodiimides R N C N R where R and R are optionally different alkyl groups such as 1 cyclohexyl 3 2 morpholinyl 4 ethyl carbodiimide or 1 ethyl 3 4 azonia 4 4 dimethylpentyl carbodiimide. Furthermore aspartyl and glutamyl residues are converted to asparaginyl and glutaminyl residues by reaction with ammonium ions.

Derivatization with bifunctional agents is useful for crosslinking antibodies to a water insoluble support matrix or surface for use in a variety of methods in addition to methods described below. Commonly used crosslinking agents include e.g. 1 1 bis diazoacetyl 2 phenylethane glutaraldehyde N hydroxysuccinimide esters for example esters with 4 azidosalicylic acid homobifunctional imidoesters including disuccinimidyl esters such as 3 3 dithiobis succinimidylpropionate and bifunctional maleimides such as bis N maleimido 1 8 octane. Derivatizing agents such as methyl 3 p azidophenyl dithio propioimidate yield photoactivatable intermediates that are capable of forming crosslinks in the presence of light. Alternatively reactive water insoluble matrices such as cyanogen bromide activated carbohydrates and the reactive substrates described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 969 287 3 691 016 4 195 128 4 247 642 4 229 537 and 4 330 440 are employed for protein immobilization.

Glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues are frequently deamidated to the corresponding glutamyl and aspartyl residues respectively. Alternatively these residues are deamidated under mildly acidic conditions. Either form of these residues falls within the scope of this invention.

Other modifications include hydroxylation of proline and lysine phosphorylation of hydroxyl groups of seryl or threonyl residues methylation of the amino groups of lysine arginine and histidine side chains T. E. Creighton Proteins Structure and Molecular Properties W. H. Freeman Co. San Francisco pp. 79 86 1983 acetylation of the N terminal amine and amidation of any C terminal carboxyl group.

Another type of covalent modification of the antibody comprises linking the antibody to various nonproteinaceous polymers including but not limited to various polyols such as polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol or polyoxyalkylenes in the manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 640 835 4 496 689 4 301 144 4 670 417 4 791 192 or 4 179 337. In addition as is known in the art amino acid substitutions may be made in various positions within the antibody to facilitate the addition of polymers such as PEG. See for example U.S. Publication No. 2005 0114037 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the covalent modification of the antibodies of the invention comprises the addition of one or more labels. In some cases these are considered antibody fusions.

The term labelling group means any detectable label. In some embodiments the labelling group is coupled to the antibody via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labelling proteins are known in the art and may be used in performing the present invention.

In general labels fall into a variety of classes depending on the assay in which they are to be detected a isotopic labels which may be radioactive or heavy isotopes b magnetic labels e.g. magnetic particles c redox active moieties d optical dyes enzymatic groups e.g. horseradish peroxidase galactosidase luciferase alkaline phosphatase e biotinylated groups and f predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a secondary reporter e.g. leucine zipper pair sequences binding sites for secondary antibodies metal binding domains epitope tags etc. . In some embodiments the labelling group is coupled to the antibody via spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance. Various methods for labelling proteins are known in the art and may be used in performing the present invention.

Specific labels include optical dyes including but not limited to chromophores phosphors and fluorophores with the latter being specific in many instances. Fluorophores can be either small molecule fluores or proteinaceous fluores.

By fluorescent label is meant any molecule that may be detected via its inherent fluorescent properties. Suitable fluorescent labels include but are not limited to fluorescein rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine eosin erythrosin coumarin methyl coumarins pyrene Malacite green stilbene Lucifer Yellow Cascade BlueJ Texas Red IAEDANS EDANS BODIPY FL LC Red 640 Cy 5 Cy 5.5 LC Red 705 Oregon green the Alexa Fluor dyes Alexa Fluor 350 Alexa Fluor 430 Alexa Fluor 488 Alexa Fluor 546 Alexa Fluor 568 Alexa Fluor 594 Alexa Fluor 633 Alexa Fluor 660 Alexa Fluor 680 Cascade Blue Cascade Yellow and R phycoerythrin PE Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. FITC Rhodamine and Texas Red Pierce Rockford Ill. Cy5 Cy5.5 Cy7 Amersham Life Science Pittsburgh Pa. . Suitable optical dyes including fluorophores are described in Molecular Probes Handbook by Richard P. Haugland hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

Suitable proteinaceous fluorescent labels also include but are not limited to green fluorescent protein including a or species of GFP Chalfie et al. 1994 Science 263 802 805 EGFP Clontech Laboratories Inc. Genbank Accession Number U55762 blue fluorescent protein BFP Quantum Biotechnologies Inc. 1801 de Maisonneuve Blvd. West 8th Floor Montreal Quebec Canada H3H 1J9 Stauber 1998 Biotechniques 24 462 471 Heim et al. 1996 Curr. Biol. 6 178 182 enhanced yellow fluorescent protein EYFP Clontech Laboratories Inc. luciferase Ichiki et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 150 5408 5417 galactosidase Nolan et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85 2603 2607 and WO92 15673 WO95 07463 WO98 14605 WO98 26277 WO99 49019 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 292 658 5 418 155 5 683 888 5 741 668 5 777 079 5 804 387 5 874 304 5 876 995 5 925 558 . All of the above cited references are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Virtually any antigen may be targeted by the Fc variants of the present invention including but not limited to proteins subunits domains motifs and or epitopes belonging to the following list of targets 17 IA 4 1BB 4Dc 6 keto PGF1a 8 iso PGF2a 8 oxo dG A1 Adenosine Receptor A33 ACE ACE 2 Activin Activin A Activin AB Activin B Activin C Activin RIA Activin RIA ALK 2 Activin RIB ALK 4 Activin RIIA Activin RIIB ADAM ADAM10 ADAM12 ADAM15 ADAM17 TACE ADAM8 ADAM9 ADAMTS ADAMTS4 ADAMTS5 Addressins aFGF ALCAM ALK ALK 1 ALK 7 alpha 1 antitrypsin alpha V beta 1 antagonist ANG Ang APAF 1 APE APJ APP APRIL AR ARC ART Artemin anti Id ASPARTIC Atrial natriuretic factor av b3 integrin Axl b2M B7 1 B7 2 B7 H B lymphocyte Stimulator BlyS BACE BACE 1 Bad BAFF BAFF R Bag 1 BAK Bax BCA 1 BCAM Bcl BCMA BDNF b ECGF bFGF BID Bik BIM BLC BL CAM BLK BMP BMP 2 BMP 2a BMP 3 Osteogenin BMP 4 BMP 2b BMP 5 BMP 6 Vgr 1 BMP 7 OP 1 BMP 8 BMP 8a OP 2 BMPR BMPR IA ALK 3 BMPR IB ALK 6 BRK 2 RPK 1 BMPR II BRK 3 BMPs b NGF BOK Bombesin Bone derived neurotrophic factor BPDE BPDE DNA BTC complement factor 3 C3 C3a C4 C5 C5a C10 CA125 CAD 8 Calcitonin cAMP carcinoembryonic antigen CEA carcinoma associated antigen Cathepsin A Cathepsin B Cathepsin C DPPI Cathepsin D Cathepsin E Cathepsin H Cathepsin L Cathepsin O Cathepsin S Cathepsin V Cathepsin X Z P CBL CCl CCK2 CCL CCL1 CCL11 CCL12 CCL13 CCL14 CCL15 CCL16 CCL17 CCL18 CCL19 CCL2 CCL20 CCL21 CCL22 CCL23 CCL24 CCL25 CCL26 CCL27 CCL28 CCL3 CCL4 CCL5 CCL6 CCL7 CCL8 CCL9 10 CCR CCR1 CCR10 CCR10 CCR2 CCR3 CCR4 CCR5 CCR6 CCR7 CCR8 CCR9 CD1 CD2 CD3 CD3E CD4 CD5 CD6 CD7 CD8 CD10 CD11a CD11b CD11c CD13 CD14 CD15 CD16 CD18 CD19 CD20 CD21 CD22 CD23 CD25 CD27L CD28 CD29 CD30 CD30L CD32 CD33 p67 proteins CD34 CD38 CD40 CD40L CD44 CD45 CD46 CD49a CD52 CD54 CD55 CD56 CD61 CD64 CD66e CD74 CD80 B7 1 CD89 CD95 CD123 CD137 CD138 CD140a CD146 CD147 CD148 CD152 CD164 CEACAM5 CFTR cGMP CINC toxin toxin CKb8 1 CLC CMV CMV UL CNTF CNTN 1 COX C Ret CRG 2 CT 1 CTACK CTGF CTLA 4 CX3CL1 CX3CR1 CXCL CXCL1 CXCL2 CXCL3 CXCL4 CXCL5 CXCL6 CXCL7 CXCL8 CXCL9 CXCL10 CXCL11 CXCL12 CXCL13 CXCL14 CXCL15 CXCL16 CXCR CXCR1 CXCR2 CXCR3 CXCR4 CXCR5 CXCR6 cytokeratin tumor associated antigen DAN DCC DcR3 DC SIGN Decay accelerating factor des 1 3 IGF I brain IGF 1 Dhh digoxin DNAM 1 Dnase Dpp DPPIV CD26 Dtk ECAD EDA EDA A1 EDA A2 EDAR EGF EGFR ErbB 1 EMA EMMPRIN ENA endothelin receptor Enkephalinase eNOS Eot eotaxin1 EpCAM Ephrin B2 EphB4 EPO ERCC E selectin ET 1 Factor IIa Factor VII Factor VIIIc Factor IX fibroblast activation protein FAP Fas FcR1 FEN 1 Ferritin FGF FGF 19 FGF 2 FGF3 FGF 8 FGFR FGFR 3 Fibrin FL FLIP Flt 3 Flt 4 Follicle stimulating hormone Fractalkine FZD1 FZD2 FZD3 FZD4 FZD5 FZD6 FZD7 FZD8 FZD9 FZD10 G250 Gas 6 GCP 2 GCSF GD2 GD3 GDF GDF 1 GDF 3 Vgr 2 GDF 5 BMP 14 CDMP 1 GDF 6 BMP 13 CDMP 2 GDF 7 BMP 12 CDMP 3 GDF 8 Myostatin GDF 9 GDF 15 MIC 1 GDNF GDNF GFAP GFRa 1 GFR alpha1 GFR alpha2 GFR alpha3 GITR Glucagon Glut 4 glycoprotein IIb IIIa GP IIb IIa GM CSF gp130 gp72 GRO Growth hormone releasing factor Hapten NP cap or NIP cap HB EGF HCC HCMV gB envelope glycoprotein HCMV gH envelope glycoprotein HCMV UL Hemopoietic growth factor HGF Hep B gp120 heparanase Her2 Her2 neu ErbB 2 Her3 ErbB 3 Her4 ErbB 4 herpes simplex virus HSV gB glycoprotein HSV gD glycoprotein HGFA High molecular weight melanoma associated antigen HMW MAA HIV gp120 HIV IIIB gp120 V3 loop HLA HLA DR HM1.24 HMFG PEM HRG Hrk human cardiac myosin human cytomegalovirus HCMV human growth hormone HGH HVEM I 309 IAP ICAM ICAM 1 ICAM 3 ICE ICOS IFNg Ig IgA receptor IgE IGF IGF binding proteins IGF 1R IGFBP IGF I IGF II IL IL 1 IL 1R IL 2 IL 2R IL 4 IL 4R IL 5 IL 5R IL 6 IL 6R IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 15 IL 18 IL 18R IL 23 interferon INF alpha INF beta INF gamma Inhibin iNOS Insulin A chain Insulin B chain Insulin like growth factor 1 integrin alpha2 integrin alpha3 integrin alpha4 integrin alpha4 beta1 integrin alpha4 beta7 integrin alpha5 alphaV integrin alpha5 beta1 integrin alpha5 beta3 integrin alpha6 integrin beta1 integrin beta2 interferon gamma IP 10 I TAC JE Kallikrein 2 Kallikrein 5 Kallikrein 6 Kallikrein 11 Kallikrein 12 Kallikrein 14 Kallikrein 15 Kallikrein L1 Kallikrein L2 Kallikrein L3 Kallikrein L4 KC KDR Keratinocyte Growth Factor KGF laminin 5 LAMP LAP LAP TGF 1 Latent TGF 1 Latent TGF 1 bp1 LBP LDGF LECT2 Lefty Lewis Y antigen Lewis Y related antigen LFA 1 LFA 3 Lfo LIF LIGHT lipoproteins LIX LKN Lptn L Selectin LT a LT b LTB4 LTBP 1 Lung surfactant Luteinizing hormone Lymphotoxin Beta Receptor Mac 1 MAdCAM MAG MAP2 MARC MCAM MCAM MCK 2 MCP M CSF MDC Mer METALLOPROTEASES MGDF receptor MGMT MHC HLA DR MIF MIG MIP MIP 1 alpha MK MMAC1 MMP MMP 1 MMP 10 MMP 11 MMP 12 MMP 13 MMP 14 MMP 15 MMP 2 MMP 24 MMP 3 MMP 7 MMP 8 MMP 9 MPIF Mpo MSK MSP mucin Muc1 MUC18 Muellerian inhibitin substance Mug MuSK NAIP NAP NCAD N Cadherin NCA 90 NCAM NCAM Neprilysin Neurotrophin 3 4 or 6 Neurturin Neuronal growth factor NGF NGFR NGF beta nNOS NO NOS Npn NRG 3 NT NTN OB OGG1 OPG OPN OSM OX40L OX40R p150 p95 PADPr Parathyroid hormone PARC PARP PBR PBSF PCAD P Cadherin PCNA PDGF PDGF PDK 1 PECAM PEM PF4 PGE PGF PGI2 PGJ2 PIN PLA2 placental alkaline phosphatase PLAP P1GF PLP PP14 Proinsulin Prorelaxin Protein C PS PSA PSCA prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA PTEN PTHrp Ptk PTN R51 RANK RANKL RANTES RANTES Relaxin A chain Relaxin B chain renin respiratory syncytial virus RSV F RSV Fgp Ret Rheumatoid factors RLIP76 RPA2 RSK S100 SCF KL SDF 1 SERINE Serum albumin sFRP 3 Shh SIGIRR SK 1 SLAM SLPI SMAC SMDF SMOH SOD SPARC Stat STEAP STEAP II TACE TACI TAG 72 tumor associated glycoprotein 72 TARC TCA 3 T cell receptors e.g. T cell receptor alpha beta TdT TECK TEM1 TEM5 TEM7 TEM8 TERT testicular PLAP like alkaline phosphatase TfR TGF TGF alpha TGF beta TGF beta Pan Specific TGF beta R1 ALK 5 TGF beta RII TGF beta RIIb TGF beta RIII TGF beta1 TGF beta2 TGF beta3 TGF beta4 TGF beta5 Thrombin Thymus Ck 1 Thyroid stimulating hormone Tie TIMP TIQ Tissue Factor TMEFF2 Tmpo TMPRSS2 TNF TNF alpha TNF alpha beta TNF beta2 TNF TNF R1 TNF RII TNFRSF10A TRAIL R1Apo 2 DR4 TNFRSF10B TRAIL R2DR5 KILLER TRICK 2A TRICK B TNFRSF10C TRAIL R3 DcR1 LIT TRID TNFRSF10D TRAIL R4 DcR2 TRUNDD TNFRSF11A RANK ODF R TRANCE R TNFRSF11B OPG OCIF TR1 TNFRSF12 TWEAK R FN14 TNFRSF13B TACI TNFRSF13C BAFF R TNFRSF14 HVEM ATAR HveA LIGHT R TR2 TNFRSF16 NGFR p75NTR TNFRSF17 BCMA TNFRSF18 GITR AITR TNFRSF19 TROY TAJ TRADE TNFRSF19L RELT TNFRSF1A TNF RI CD120a p55 60 TNFRSF1B TNF RII CD120b p75 80 TNFRSF26 TNFRH3 TNFRSF3 LTbR TNF RIII TNFC R TNFRSF4 OX40 ACT35 TXGP1 R TNFRSF5 CD40 p50 TNFRSF6 Fas Apo 1 APT1 CD95 TNFRSF6B DcR3 M68 TR6 TNFRSF7 CD27 TNFRSF8 CD30 TNFRSF9 4 1BB CD137 ILA TNFRSF21 DR6 TNFRSF22 DcTRAIL R2 TNFRH2 TNFRST23 DcTRAIL R1 TNFRH1 TNFRSF25 DR3 Apo 3 LARD TR 3 TRAMP WSL 1 TNFSF10 TRAIL Apo 2 Ligand TL2 TNFSF11 TRANCE RANK Ligand ODF OPG Ligand TNFSF12 TWEAK Apo 3 Ligand DR3 Ligand TNFSF13 APRIL TALL2 TNFSF13B BAFF BLYS TALL1 THANK TNFSF20 TNFSF14 LIGHT HVEM Ligand LTg TNFSF15 TL1A VEGI TNFSF18 GITR Ligand AITR Ligand TL6 TNFSF1A TNF a Conectin DIF TNFSF2 TNFSF1B TNF b LTa TNFSF1 TNFSF3 LTb TNFC p33 TNFSF4 OX40 Ligand gp34 TXGP1 TNFSF5 CD40 Ligand CD154 gp39 HIGM1 IMD3 TRAP TNFSF6 Fas Ligand Apo 1 Ligand APT1 Ligand TNFSF7 CD27 Ligand CD70 TNFSF8 CD30 Ligand CD153 TNFSF9 4 1BB Ligand CD137 Ligand TP 1 t PA Tpo TRAIL TRAIL R TRAIL R1 TRAIL R2 TRANCE transferring receptor TRF Trk TROP 2 TSG TSLP tumor associated antigen CA 125 tumor associated antigen expressing Lewis Y related carbohydrate TWEAK TXB2 Ung uPAR uPAR 1 Urokinase VCAM VCAM 1 VECAD VE Cadherin VE cadherin 2 VEFGR 1 fit 1 VEGF VEGFR VEGFR 3 flt 4 VEGI VIM Viral antigens VLA VLA 1 VLA 4 VNR integrin von Willebrands factor WIF 1 WNT1 WNT2 WNT2B 13 WNT3 WNT3A WNT4 WNT5A WNT5B WNT6 WNT7A WNT7B WNT8A WNT8B WNT9A WNT9A WNT9B WNT10A WNT10B WNT11 WNT16 XCL1 XCL2 XCR1 XCR1 XEDAR XIAP XPD and receptors for hormones and growth factors etc.

Many polypeptides including antibodies are subjected to a variety of post translational modifications involving carbohydrate moieties such as glycosylation with oligosaccharides. There are several factors that can influence glycosylation. The species tissue and cell type have all been shown to be important in the way that glycosylation occurs. In addition the extracellular environment through altered culture conditions such as serum concentration may have a direct effect on glycosylation. Lifely et al. 1995 Glycobiology 5 8 813 822 .

All antibodies contain carbohydrate at conserved positions in the constant regions of the heavy chain. Each antibody isotype has a distinct variety of N linked carbohydrate structures. Aside from the carbohydrate attached to the heavy chain up to 30 of human IgGs have a glycosylated Fab region. IgG has a single N linked biantennary carbohydrate at Asn297 of the CH2 domain. For IgG from either serum or produced ex vivo in hybridomas or engineered cells the IgG are heterogeneous with respect to the Asn297 linked carbohydrate. Jefferis et al. 1998 Immunol. Rev. 163 59 76 and Wright et al. 1997 Trends Biotech 15 26 32. For human IgG the core oligosaccharide normally consists of GlcNAcManGlcNAc with differing numbers of outer residues.

The carbohydrate moieties of the present invention will be described with reference to commonly used nomenclature for the description of oligosaccharides. A review of carbohydrate chemistry which uses this nomenclature is found in Hubbard et al. 1981 Ann. Rev. Biochem. 50 555 583. This nomenclature includes for instance Man which represents mannose GlcNAc which represents 2 N acetylglucosamine Gal which represents galactose Fuc for fucose and Glc which represents glucose. Sialic acids are described by the shorthand notation NeuNAc for 5 N acetylneuraminic acid and NeuNGc for 5 glycolylneuraminic.

The term glycosylation means the attachment of oligosaccharides carbohydrates containing two or more simple sugars linked together e.g. from two to about twelve simple sugars linked together to a glycoprotein. The oligosaccharide side chains are typically linked to the backbone of the glycoprotein through either N or O linkages. The oligosaccharides of the present invention occur generally are attached to a CH2 domain of an Fc region as N linked oligosaccharides. N linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to an asparagine residue in a glycoprotein chain. The skilled artisan will recognize that for example each of murine IgG1 IgG2a IgG2b and IgG3 as well as human IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgD CH2 domains have a single site for N linked glycosylation at amino acid residue 297 Kabat et al. Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest 1991 .

For the purposes herein a mature core carbohydrate structure refers to a processed core carbohydrate structure attached to an Fc region which generally consists of the following carbohydrate structure GlcNAc Fucose GlcNAc Man Man GlcNAc typical of biantennary oligosaccharides. The mature core carbohydrate structure is attached to the Fc region of the glycoprotein generally via N linkage to Asn297 of a CH2 domain of the Fc region. A bisecting GlcNAc is a GlcNAc residue attached to the 1 4 mannose of the mature core carbohydrate structure. The bisecting GlcNAc can be enzymatically attached to the mature core carbohydrate structure by a 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III enzyme GnTIII . CHO cells do not normally express GnTIII Stanley et al. 1984 J. Biol. Chem. 261 13370 13378 but may be engineered to do so Umana et al. 1999 Nature Biotech. 17 176 180 .

The present invention contemplates Fc variants that comprise modified glycoforms or engineered glycoforms. By modified glycoform or engineered glycoform as used herein is meant a carbohydrate composition that is covalently attached to an IgG wherein the carbohydrate composition differs chemically from that of a parent IgG. Engineered glycoforms may be useful for a variety of purposes including but not limited to enhancing or reducing Fc R mediated effector function. In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention are modified to control the level of fucosylated and or bisecting oligosaccharides that are covalently attached to the Fc region. A variety of methods are well known in the art for generating modified glycoforms Umana et al. 1999 Nat Biotechnol 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 Biotechnol Bioeng 74 288 294 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 26733 26740 Shinkawa et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 3466 3473 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 U.S. Ser. No. 10 113 929 PCT WO 00 61739A1 PCT WO 01 29246A1 PCT WO 02 31140A1 PCT WO 02 30954A1 Potelligent technology Biowa Inc. Princeton N.J. GlycoMAb glycosylation engineering technology GLYCART biotechnology AG Z rich Switzerland all of which are expressly incorporated by reference . These techniques control the level of fucosylated and or bisecting oligosaccharides that are covalently attached to the Fc region for example by expressing an IgG in various organisms or cell lines engineered or otherwise for example Lec 13 CHO cells or rat hybridoma YB2 0 cells by regulating enzymes involved in the glycosylation pathway for example FUT8 1 6 fucosyltranserase and or 1 4 N acetylgiucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII or by modifying carbohydrate s after the IgG has been expressed. The use of a particular mode of generating a modified glycoform for example the use of the Lec 13 cell line in the present study is not meant to constrain the present invention to that particular embodiment. Rather the present invention contemplates Fc variants with modified glycoforms irrespective of how they are produced.

Engineered glycoform typically refers to the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide thus an IgG variant for example an antibody or Fc fusion can include an engineered glycoform. Alternatively engineered glycoform may refer to the IgG variant that comprises the different carbohydrate or oligosaccharide. For the purposes herein a parent Fc polypeptide is a glycosylated Fc polypeptide having the same amino acid sequence and mature core carbohydrate structure as an engineered glycoform of the present invention except that fucose is attached to the mature core carbohydrate structure. For instance in a composition comprising the parent glycoprotein about 50 100 or about 70 100 of the parent glycoprotein comprises a mature core carbohydrate structure having fucose attached thereto.

The present invention provides a composition comprising a glycosylated Fc polypeptiden having an Fc region wherein about 51 100 of the glycosylated Fc polypeptide in the composition comprises a mature core carbohydrate structure which lacks fucose attached to the Fc region of the Fc polypeptide. More preferably about 80 100 of the Fc polypeptide in the composition comprises a mature core carbohydrate structure which lacks fucose and most preferably about 90 99 of the Fc polypeptide in the composition lacks fucose attached to the mature core carbohydrate structure. In certain embodiments the Fc polypeptide in the composition both comprises a mature core carbohydrate structure that lacks fucose and additionally comprises at least one amino acid modification in the Fc region. In certain embodiments the combination of engineered glycoform and amino acid modification provides optimal Fc receptor binding properties to the Fc polypeptide.

The Fc variants of the present invention may be optimized for a variety of Fc receptor binding properties. An Fc variant that is engineered or predicted to display one or more optimized properties is herein referred to as an optimized Fc variant . Properties that may be optimized include but are not limited to increased or reduced affinity for an Fc R. In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention are optimized to possess increased affinity for a human activating Fc R preferably Fc RI Fc RIIa Fc RIIc Fc RIIIa and Fc RIIIb most preferrably Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa. In another embodiment the Fc variants are optimized to possess reduced affinity for the human inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. These embodiments are anticipated to provide Fc polypeptides with increased therapeutic properties in humans for example enhanced effector function and greater anti cancer potency. In other embodiments Fc variants of the present invention provide increased affinity for one or more Fc Rs yet reduced affinity for one or more other Fc Rs. For example an Fc variant of the present invention may have increased binding to Fc RI Fc RIIa and or Fc RIIIa yet reduced binding to Fc RIIb.

By greater affinity or improved affinity or enhanced affinity or increased affinity or better affinity than a parent Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant that an Fc variant binds to an Fc receptor with a significantly higher equilibrium constant of association KA or lower equilibrium constant of dissociation KD than the parent Fc polypeptide when the amounts of variant and parent polypeptide in the binding assay are essentially the same. For example the Fc variant with improved Fc receptor binding affinity may display from about 5 fold to about 1000 fold e.g. from about 10 fold to about 500 fold improvement in Fc receptor binding affinity compared to the parent Fc polypeptide where Fc receptor binding affinity is determined for example as disclosed in the Examples herein. Accordingly by reduced affinity as compared to a parent Fc polypeptide as used herein is meant that an Fc variant binds an Fc receptor with significantly lower KA or higher KD than the parent Fc polypeptide. A promising means for enhancing the anti tumor potency of antibodies is via enhancement of their ability to mediate cytotoxic effector functions such as ADCC ADCP and CDC. The importance of Fc R mediated effector functions for the anti cancer activity of antibodies has been demonstrated in mice Clynes et al. 1998 95 652 656 Clynes et al. 2000 6 443 446 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference and the affinity of interaction between Fc and certain Fc Rs correlates with targeted cytotoxicity in cell based assays Shields et al. 2001 276 6591 6604 Presta et al. 2002 30 487 490 Shields et al. 2002 277 26733 26740 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference . A critical set of data supporting the relevance of Fc R mediated effector functions in antibody therapeutic mechanism are the correlations observed between clinical efficacy in humans and their allotype of high and low affinity polymorphic forms of Fc Rs. In particular human IgG1 binds with greater affinity to the V158 isoform of Fc RIIIa than the F158 isoform. This difference in affinity and its effect Fc R mediated effector functions such as ADCC and or ADCP has been shown to be a significant determinant of the efficacy of the anti CD20 antibody rituximab Rituxan Biogenldec . Patients with the V158 allotype respond favorably to rituximab treatment however patients with the lower affinity F158 allotype respond poorly Cartron et al. 2002 Blood 99 754 758 Weng Levy 2003 J Clin Oncol 21 21 3940 3947 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Approximately 10 20 of humans are V158 V158 homozygous 45 are V158 F158 heterozygous and 35 45 of humans are F158 F158 homozygous Lehrnbecher et al. 1999 94 4220 4232 Cartron et al. 2002 99 754 758 both hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Thus 80 90 of humans are poor responders e.g. they have at least one allele of the F158 Fc RIIIa. Correlations between polymorphisms and clinical outcome have also been documented for the activating receptor Fc RIIa Weng Levy 2003 J Clin Oncol 21 21 3940 3947 Cheung et al. 2006 J Clin Oncol 24 18 1 6 herein expressly incorporated by reference . The H131 and R131 allotypes of this receptor are approximately equally present in the human population. Non Hodgkin s lymphoma patients homozygous for the H131 isoform which binds more tightly to human IgG2 than R131 Fc RIIa responded better to anti CD20 rituximab therapy than those homozygous for R131 Fc RIIa Weng Levy 2003 J Clin Oncol 21 21 3940 3947 . The Fc RIIa polymorphism also correlated with clinical outcome following immunotherapy of neuroblastoma with a murine IgG3 anti GD2 antibody and GMC SF Cheung et al. 2006 J Clin Oncol 24 18 1 6 . Murine IgG3 has higher affinity for the R131 isoform of human Fc RIIa than the H131 form and patients homozygous for R131 showed better response than H H homozygous patients. Notably this is the first documentation of a clinical correlation between Fc R polymorphism and outcome in solid tumors suggesting that the importance of Fc R mediated effector functions is not limited to antibodies targeting hematological cancers.

Together these data suggest that an antibody that is optimized for binding to certain Fc Rs may better mediate effector functions and thereby destroy cancer cells more effectively in patients. Indeed progress has been made towards this goal see for example U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 U.S. Ser. No. 10 822 231 U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 256 060. The majority of emphasis has thus far been directed at enhancing the affinity of antibodies for the activating receptor Fc RIIIa. However a major obstacle to improving antibody anti tumor efficacy is engineering the proper balance between activating and inhibiting receptors. This is supported by the positive Fc RIIa polymorphism correlations with clinical outcome cited above because this receptor is virtually always expressed on immune cells along with the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. shows the activating and inhibitory Fc Rs that may be involved in regulating the activities of several immune cell types. Whereas NK cells only express the activating receptor Fc RIIIa all of the other cell types including neutrophils macrophages and dendritic cells express the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb as well the other activating receptors Fc RI and Fc RIIa. For these cell types optimal effector function may result from an antibody that has increased affinity for activation receptors for example Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa yet reduced affinity for the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. Notably these other cells types can utilitize Fc Rs to mediate not only innate effector functions that directly lyse cells for example ADCC but can also phagocytose targeted cells and process antigen for presentation to other immune cells events that can ultimately lead to the generation of adaptive immune response. For example recent data suggest that the balance between Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb establishes a threshold of DC activation and enables immune complexes to mediate opposing effects on dendritic cell DC maturation and function Boruchov et al. 2005 J Clin Invest. September 15 1 10 entirely incorporated by reference . Thus Fc variants that selectively ligate activating versus inhibitory receptors for example Fc RIIa versus Fc RIIb may affect DC processing T cell priming and activation antigen immunization and or efficacy against cancer Dhodapkar Dhodapkar 2005 102 6243 6244 entirely incorporated by reference . Such variants may be employed as novel strategies for targeting antigens to the activating or inhibitory Fc Rs on human DCs macrophages or other antigen presenting cells to generate target specific immunity.

In various aspects the present application is directed to Fc variants having differential specificity for various receptors. For example the change in affinity for one or more receptors can be increased relative to a second receptor or group of receptors.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to an Fc variant of a parent Fc polypeptide comprising at least a first and a second substitution. The first and second substitutions are each at a position selected from group consisting of 234 235 236 239 267 268 293 295 324 327 328 330 and 332 according to the EU index. The Fc variant exhibits an increase in affinity for one or more receptors selected from the group consisting of Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa as compared to the increase in a affinity of the Fc variant for the Fc RIIb receptor. The increases in affinities are relative to the parent polypeptide. In certain embodiments the Fc variant has increased affinity for the activating receptor as compared to the parent Fc polypeptide but has reduced affinity i.e. a negative increase in affinity for Fc RIIb as compared to the parent Fc polypeptide. The increase in affinity is greater for an activating receptor than it is for Fc RIIb. Other activating receptors are also contemplated. In certain embodiments the affinity for Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa receptors is increased.

Table 1 illustrates several embodiments of human Fc receptor affinity profiles wherein the Fc variant provide selectively increased affinity for activating receptors relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. One application of Fc variants with such Fc receptor affinity profiles is to impart antibodies Fc fusions or other Fc polypeptides with enhanced Fc R mediated effector function and cellular activation specifically for cells that express both activating and inhibitory receptors including but not limited to neutrophils monocytes and macrophages and dendritic cells.

In another aspect the Fc variant exhibits an increase in affinity of the Fc variant for the Fc RIIb receptor as compared to the increase in affinity for one or more activating receptors. Activating receptors include Fc RI Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa. Increased affinities are relative to the parent polypeptide. The first and second substitutions each at a position selected from group consisting of 234 235 236 239 267 268 293 295 324 327 328 330 and 332 according to the EU index. In other variations the Fc variant has increased affinity for the activating receptor as compared to the parent Fc polypeptide but has reduced affinity i.e. a negative increase in affinity for Fc RIIb as compared to the parent Fc polypeptide. The increase in affinity is greater for Fc RIIb than it is for the one or more activating receptors. In further variations the affinity for Fc RIIb is increased.

Table 2 illustrates several embodiments of human Fc receptor affinity profiles wherein the Fc variant provide selectively increased affinity for the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb relative to one or more activating receptors. One application of Fc variants with such Fc receptor affinity profiles is to impart antibodies Fc fusions or other Fc polypeptides with reduced Fc R mediated effector function and to inhibit cellular activation specifically for cells that express the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb including but not limited to neutrophils monocytes and macrophages dendritic cells and B cells.

In particular embodiments the Fc variants that provide selectively increased affinity for activating receptors or inhibitory receptor are murine antibodies and said selective enhancements are to murine Fc receptors. As described below in the examples various embodiments provide for the generation of surrogate antibodies that are designed to be most compatible with mouse disease models and may be informative for example in pre clinical studies.

The presence of different polymorphic forms of Fc Rs provides yet another parameter that impacts the therapeutic utility of the Fc variants of the present invention. Whereas the specificity and selectivity of a given Fc variant for the different classes of Fc Rs significantly affects the capacity of an Fc variant to target a given antigen for treatment of a given disease the specificity or selectivity of an Fc variant for different polymorphic forms of these receptors may in part determine which research or pre clinical experiments may be appropriate for testing and ultimately which patient populations may or may not respond to treatment. Thus the specificity or selectivity of Fc variants of the present invention to Fc receptor polymorphisms including but not limited to Fc RIIa Fc RIIIa and the like may be used to guide the selection of valid research and pre clinical experiments clinical trial design patient selection dosing dependence and or other aspects concerning clinical trials.

Fc variants of the invention may comprise modifications that modulate interaction with Fc receptors other than Fc Rs including but not limited to complement proteins FcRn and Fc receptor homologs FcRHs . FcRHs include but are not limited to FcRH1 FcRH2 FcRH3 FcRH4 FcRH5 and FcRH6 Davis et al. 2002 Immunol. Reviews 190 123 136 .

Clearly an important parameter that determines the most beneficial selectivity of a given Fc variant to treat a given disease is the context of the Fc variant. Thus the Fc receptor selectivity or specificity of a given Fc variant will provide different properties depending on whether it composes an antibody Fc fusion or Fc variants with a coupled fusion or conjugate partner.

Various Fc variants are used in therapeutic utilities based on their respective receptor specificities. The utility of a given Fc variant for therapeutic purposes can depend on the epitope or form of the target antigen and the disease or indication being treated. For some targets and indications enhanced Fc R mediated effector functions may be preferable. This may be particularly favorable for anti cancer Fc variants. Thus Fc variants can be used that comprise Fc variants that provide increased affinity for activating Fc Rs and or reduced affinity for inhibitory Fc Rs. For some targets and indications it may be further beneficial to utilize Fc variants that provide differential selectivity for different activating Fc Rs for example in some cases enhanced binding to Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa may be desired but not Fc RI whereas in other cases enhanced binding only to Fc RIIa may be preferred. For certain targets and indications it may be preferable to utilize Fc variants that enhance both Fc R mediated and complement mediated effector functions whereas for other cases it may be advantageous to utilize Fc variants that enhance either Fc R mediated or complement mediated effector functions. For some targets or cancer indications it may be advantageous to reduce or ablate one or more effector functions for example by knocking out binding to C1q one or more Fc R s FcRn or one or more other Fc ligands. For other targets and indications it may be preferable to utilize Fc variants that provide enhanced binding to the inhibitory Fc RIIb yet WT level reduced or ablated binding to activating Fc Rs. This may be particularly useful for example when the goal of an Fc variant is to inhibit inflammation or auto immune disease or modulate the immune system in some way.

In certain embodiments the target of the Fc variants of the present invention is itself one or more Fc ligands. Fc polypeptides of the invention can be utilized to modulate the activity of the immune system and in some cases to mimic the effects of IVIg therapy in a more controlled specific and efficient manner. IVIg is effectively a high dose of immunoglobulins delivered intravenously. In general IVIg has been used to down regulate autoimmune conditions. It has been hypothesized that the therapeutic mechanism of action of IVIg involves ligation of Fc receptors at high frequency J. Bayry et al. 2003 Transfusion Clinique et Biologique 10 165 169 Binstadt et al. 2003 J Allergy Clin. Immunol 697 704 . Indeed animal models of lthrombocytopenia purpura ITP show that the isolated Fc are the active portion of IVIg Samuelsson et al 2001 Pediatric Research 50 5 551 . For use in therapy iimmunoglobulins are harvested from thousands of donors with all of the concomitant problems associated with non recombinant biotherapeutics collected from humans. An Fc variant of the present invention should serve all of the roles of IVIg while being manufactured as a recombinant protein rather than harvested from donors.

The immunomodulatory effects of IVIg may be dependent on productive interaction with one or more Fc ligands including but not limited to Fc Rs complement proteins and FcRn. In some embodiments Fc variants of the invention with increased affinity for Fc RIIb can be used to promote anti inflammatory activity Samuelsson et al. 2001 291 484 486 and or to reduce autoimmunity Hogarth 2002 14 798 802 . In other embodiments Fc polypeptides of the invention with increased affinity for one or more Fc Rs can be utilized by themselves or in combination with additional modifications to reduce autoimmunity Hogarth 2002 14 798 802 . In alternative embodiments Fc variants of the invention with increased affinity for Fc RIIIa but reduced capacity for intracellular signaling can be used to reduce immune system activation by competitively interfering with Fc RIIIa binding. The context of the Fc variant impacts the desired specificity. For example Fc variants that provide enhanced binding to one or more activating Fc Rs may provide optimal immunomodulatory effects in the context of an antibody Fc fusion isolated Fc or Fc fragment by acting as an Fc R antagonist van Mirre et al. 2004 J. Immunol. 173 332 339 . However fusion or conjugation of two or more Fc variants may provide different effects and for such an Fc polypeptide it may be optimal to utilize Fc variants that provide increased affinity for an inhibitory receptor.

The Fc variants of the present invention may be used as immunomodulatory therapeutics. Binding to or blocking Fc receptors on immune system cells may be used to influence immune response in immunological conditions including but not limited to idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura ITP and rheumatoid arthritis RA among others. By use of the affinity enhanced Fc variants of the present invention the dosages required in typical IVIg applications may be reduced while obtaining a substantially similar therapeutic effect. The Fc variants may provide enhanced binding to an Fc R including but not limited to Fc RIIa Fc RIIb Fc RIIIa Fc RIIIb and or Fc RI. In particular binding enhancements to Fc RIIb would increase expression or inhibitory activity as needed of that receptor and improve efficacy. Alternatively blocking binding to activation receptors such as Fc RIIIb or Fc RI may improve efficacy. In addition modulated affinity of the Fc variants for FcRn and or also complement may also provide benefits.

In one embodiment Fc variants that provide enhanced binding to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb provide an enhancement to the IVIg therapeutic approach. In particular the Fc variants of the present invention that bind with greater affinity to the Fc RIIb receptor than parent Fc polypeptide may be used. Such Fc variants would thus function as Fc RIIb agonists and would be expected to enhance the beneficial effects of IVIg as an autoimmune disease therapeutic and also as a modulator of B cell proliferation. In addition such Fc RIIb enhanced Fc variants may also be further modified to have the same or limited binding to other receptors. In additional embodiments the Fc variants with enhanced Fc RIIb affinity may be combined with mutations that reduce or ablate to other receptors thereby potentially further minimizing side effects during therapeutic use.

Such immunomodulatory applications of the Fc variants of the present invention may also be utilized in the treatment of oncological indications especially those for which antibody therapy involves antibody dependant cytotoxic mechanisms. For example an Fc variant that enhances affinity to Fc RIIb may be used to antagonize this inhibitory receptor for example by binding to the Fc Fc RIIb binding site but failing to trigger or reducing cell signaling potentially enhancing the effect of antibody based anti cancer therapy. Such Fc variants functioning as Fc RIIb antagonists may either block the inhibitory properties of Fc RIIb or induce its inhibitory function as in the case of IVIg. An Fc RIIb antagonist may be used as co therapy in combination with any other therapeutic including but not limited to antibodies acting on the basis of ADCC related cytotoxicity. Fc RIIb antagonistic Fc variants of this type are preferably isolated Fc or Fc fragments although in alternate embodiments antibodies and Fc fusions may be used.

Modification may be made to improve the IgG stability solubility function or clinical use. In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention may comprise modifications to reduce immunogenicity in humans. In certain embodiments the immunogenicity of an Fc variant of the present invention is reduced using a method described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590 filed Dec. 3 2004 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. In alternate embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention are humanized Clark 2000 21 397 402 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . By humanized antibody as used herein is meant an antibody comprising a human framework region FR and one or more complementarity determining regions CDR s from a non human usually mouse or rat antibody. The non human antibody providing the CDR s is called the donor and the human immunoglobulin providing the framework is called the acceptor . Humanization relies principally on the grafting of donor CDRs onto acceptor human VL and VH frameworks e.g. Winter et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . This strategy is referred to as CDR grafting . Backmutation of selected acceptor framework residues to the corresponding donor residues is often required to regain affinity that is lost in the initial grafted construct U.S. Pat. No. 5 530 101 U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 761 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 762 U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 370 U.S. Pat. No. 5 859 205 U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 U.S. Pat. No. 6 054 297 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 213 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference . The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region typically that of a human immunoglobulin and thus will typically comprise a human Fc region. A variety of techniques and methods for humanizing and reshaping non human antibodies are well known in the art See Tsurushita Vasquez 2004 Humanization of Monoclonal Antibodies Molecular Biology of B Cells 533 545 Elsevier Science USA and references cited therein all hereby entirely incorporated by reference . Humanization methods include but are not limited to methods described in Jones et al. 1986 321 522 525 Riechmann et al. 1988 332 323 329 Verhoeyen et al. 1988 239 1534 1536 Queen et al. 1989 86 10029 33 He et al. 1998 J. Immunol. 160 1029 1035 Carter et al. 1992 89 4285 9 Presta et al. 1997 Cancer Res.57 20 4593 9 Gorman et al. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 4181 4185 O Connor et al. 1998 11 321 8 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Humanization or other methods of reducing the immunogenicity of nonhuman antibody variable regions may include resurfacing methods as described for example in Roguska et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 969 973 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. In one embodiment the parent antibody has been affinity matured as is well known in the art. Structure based methods may be employed for humanization and affinity maturation for example as described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 004 590 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Selection based methods may be employed to humanize and or affinity mature antibody variable regions including but not limited to methods described in Wu et al. 1999 J. Mol. Biol. 294 151 162 Baca et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 16 10678 10684 Rosok et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 37 22611 22618 Rader et al. 1998 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 8910 8915 Krauss et al. 2003 Protein Engineering 16 10 753 759 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Other humanization methods may involve the grafting of only parts of the CDRs including but not limited to methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 09 810 502 Tan et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 1119 1125 De Pascalis et al. 2002 J. Immunol. 169 3076 3084 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference.

Modifications to reduce immunogenicity may include modifications that reduce binding of processed peptides derived from the parent sequence to MHC proteins. For example amino acid modifications may be engineered such that there are no or a minimal number of immune epitopes that are predicted to bind with high affinity to any prevalent MHC alleles. Several methods of identifying MHC binding epitopes in protein sequences are known in the art and may be used to score epitopes in an Fc variant of the present invention. See for example WO 98 52976 WO 02 079232 WO 00 3317 U.S. Ser. No. 09 903 378 U.S. Ser. No. 10 039 170 U.S. Ser. No. 60 222 697 U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 296 PCT WO 01 21823 and PCT WO 02 00165 Mallios 1999 15 432 439 Mallios 2001 17 942 948 Sturniolo et al. 1999 17 555 561 WO 98 59244 WO 02 069232 WO 02 77187 Marshall et al. 1995 154 5927 5933 and Hammer et al. 1994 180 2353 2358 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Sequence based information can be used to determine a binding score for a given peptide MHC interaction see for example Mallios 1999 15 432 439 Mallios 2001 17 p942 948 Sturniolo et. al. 1999 17 555 561 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference .

In an alternate embodiment the Fc variant of the present invention is conjugated or operably linked to another therapeutic compound. The therapeutic compound may be a cytotoxic agent a chemotherapeutic agent a toxin a radioisotope a cytokine or other therapeutically active agent. The IgG may be linked to one of a variety of nonproteinaceous polymers e.g. polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyoxyalkylenes or copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol.

The present invention provides methods for engineering producing and screening Fc variants. The described methods are not meant to constrain the present invention to any particular application or theory of operation. Rather the provided methods are meant to illustrate generally that one or more Fc variants may be engineered produced and screened experimentally to obtain Fc variants with optimized effector function. A variety of methods are described for designing producing and testing antibody and protein variants in U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 U.S. Ser. No. 10 822 231 U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 256 060 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference.

A variety of protein engineering methods may be used to design Fc variants with optimized effector function. In one embodiment a structure based engineering method may be used wherein available structural information is used to guide substitutions. An alignment of sequences may be used to guide substitutions at the identified positions. Alternatively random or semi random mutagenesis methods may be used to make amino acid modifications at the desired positions.

Methods for production and screening of Fc variants are well known in the art. General methods for antibody molecular biology expression purification and screening are described in Antibody Engineering edited by Duebel Kontermann Springer Verlag Heidelberg 2001 and Hayhurst Georgiou 2001 5 683 689 Maynard Georgiou 2000 2 339 76 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Also see the methods described in U.S. Ser. No. 10 672 280 U.S. Ser. No. 10 822 231 U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 256 060 all hereby entirely incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Fc variant sequences are used to create nucleic acids that encode the member sequences and that may then be cloned into host cells expressed and assayed if desired. These practices are carried out using well known procedures and a variety of methods that may find use in the present invention are described in Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 3rd Ed. Maniatis Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York 2001 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons both entirely incorporated by reference. The Fc variants of the present invention may be produced by culturing a host cell transformed with nucleic acid preferably an expression vector containing nucleic acid encoding the Fc variants under the appropriate conditions to induce or cause expression of the protein. A wide variety of appropriate host cells may be used including but not limited to mammalian cells bacteria insect cells and yeast. For example a variety of cell lines that may find use in the present invention are described in the ATCC cell line catalog available from the American Type Culture Collection. The methods of introducing exogenous nucleic acid into host cells are well known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.

In certain embodiments Fc variants are purified or isolated after expression. Antibodies may be isolated or purified in a variety of ways known to those skilled in the art. Standard purification methods include chromatographic techniques electrophoretic immunological precipitation dialysis filtration concentration and chromatofocusing techniques. As is well known in the art a variety of natural proteins bind antibodies for example bacterial proteins A G and L and these proteins may find use in the present invention for purification. Purification can often be enabled by a particular fusion partner. For example proteins may be purified using glutathione resin if a GST fusion is employed Niaffinity chromatography if a His tag is employed or immobilized anti flag antibody if a flag tag is used. For general guidance in suitable purification techniques see Antibody Purification Principles and Practice 3Ed. Scopes Springer Verlag NY 1994 hereby entirely incorporated by reference.

Fc variants may be screened using a variety of methods including but not limited to those that use in vitro assays in vivo and cell based assays and selection technologies. Automation and high throughput screening technologies may be utilized in the screening procedures. Screening may employ the use of a fusion partner or label for example an immune label isotopic label or small molecule label such as a fluorescent or colorimetric dye.

In certain embodiments the functional and or biophysical properties of Fc variants are screened in an in vitro assay. In certain embodiments the protein is screened for functionality for example its ability to catalyze a reaction or its binding affinity to its target.

As is known in the art a subset of screening methods are those that select for favorable members of a library. The methods are herein referred to as selection methods and these methods find use in the present invention for screening Fc variants. When protein libraries are screened using a selection method only those members of a library that are favorable that is which meet some selection criteria are propagated isolated and or observed. A variety of selection methods are known in the art that may find use in the present invention for screening protein libraries. Other selection methods that may find use in the present invention include methods that do not rely on display such as in vivo methods. A subset of selection methods referred to as directed evolution methods are those that include the mating or breading of favorable sequences during selection sometimes with the incorporation of new mutations.

In certain embodiments Fc variants are screened using one or more cell based or in vivo assays. For such assays purified or unpurified proteins are typically added exogenously such that cells are exposed to individual variants or pools of variants belonging to a library. These assays are typically but not always based on the function of the Fc polypeptide that is the ability of the Fc polypeptide to bind to its target and mediate some biochemical event for example effector function ligand receptor binding inhibition apoptosis and the like. Such assays often involve monitoring the response of cells to the IgG for example cell survival cell death change in cellular morphology or transcriptional activation such as cellular expression of a natural gene or reporter gene. For example such assays may measure the ability of Fc variants to elicit ADCC ADCP or CDC. For some assays additional cells or components that is in addition to the target cells may need to be added for example serum complement or effector cells such as peripheral blood monocytes PBMCs NK cells macrophages and the like. Such additional cells may be from any organism preferably humans mice rat rabbit and monkey. Antibodies may cause apoptosis of certain cell lines expressing the target or they may mediate attack on target cells by immune cells which have been added to the assay. Methods for monitoring cell death or viability are known in the art and include the use of dyes immunochemical cytochemical and radioactive reagents. Transcriptional activation may also serve as a method for assaying function in cell based assays. Alternatively cell based screens are performed using cells that have been transformed or transfected with nucleic acids encoding the variants. That is Fc variants are not added exogenously to the cells.

In certain embodiments the immunogenicity of the Fc variants is determined experimentally using one or more cell based assays. Several methods can be used for experimental confirmation of epitopes.

The biological properties of the Fc variants of the present invention may be characterized in cell tissue and whole organism experiments. As is known in the art drugs are often tested in animals including but not limited to mice rats rabbits dogs cats pigs and monkeys in order to measure a drug s efficacy for treatment against a disease or disease model or to measure a drug s pharmacokinetics toxicity and other properties. The animals may be referred to as disease models. Therapeutics are often tested in mice including but not limited to nude mice SCID mice xenograft mice and transgenic mice including knockins and knockouts . Such experimentation may provide meaningful data for determination of the potential of the protein to be used as a therapeutic. Any organism preferably mammals may be used for testing. For example because of their genetic similarity to humans monkeys can be suitable therapeutic models and thus may be used to test the efficacy toxicity pharmacokinetics or other property of the IgGs of the present invention. Tests of the in humans are ultimately required for approval as drugs and thus of course these experiments are contemplated. Thus the IgGs of the present invention may be tested in humans to determine their therapeutic efficacy toxicity immunogenicity pharmacokinetics and or other clinical properties.

The Fc variants of the present invention may find use in a wide range of products. In one embodiment the Fc variant of the present invention is a therapeutic a diagnostic or a research reagent preferably a therapeutic. The Fc variant may find use in an antibody composition that is monoclonal or polyclonal. In certain embodiments the Fc variants of the present invention are used to kill target cells that bear the target antigen for example cancer cells. In an alternate embodiment the Fc variants of the present invention are used to block antagonize or agonize the target antigen for example for antagonizing a cytokine or cytokine receptor. In an alternative embodiment the Fc variants of the present invention are used to block antagonize or agonize the target antigen and kill the target cells that bear the target antigen.

The Fc variants of the present invention may be used for various therapeutic purposes. In certain embodiments an antibody comprising the Fc variant is administered to a patient to treat an antibody related disorder. A patient for the purposes of the present invention includes humans and other animals preferably mammals and most preferably humans. By antibody related disorder or antibody responsive disorder or condition or disease herein are meant a disorder that may be ameliorated by the administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention. Antibody related disorders include but are not limited to autoimmune diseases immunological diseases infectious diseases inflammatory diseases neurological diseases pain pulmonary diseases hematological conditions fibrotic conditions and oncological and neoplastic diseases including cancer. By cancer and cancerous herein refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma including liposarcoma neuroendocrine tumors mesothelioma schwanoma meningioma adenocarcinoma melanoma and leukemia and lymphoid malignancies. Other conditions that may be treated include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis crohn s disease ulcerative colitis Sjorgren s disease multiple sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis asthma allergies and allergenic conditions graft versus host disease and the like. The term treatment as used herein is meant to include therapeutic treatment as well as prophylactic or suppressive measures for the disease condition or disorder. Thus for example successful administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention prior to onset of the disease results in treatment of the disease. As another example successful administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention after clinical manifestation of the disease to combat the symptoms of the disease comprises treatment of the disease. Treatment also encompasses administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention after the appearance of the disease in order to eradicate the disease. Successful administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention after onset and after clinical symptoms have developed with possible abatement of clinical symptoms and perhaps amelioration of the disease comprises treatment of the disease. Those in need of treatment as used herein include mammals already having the disease or disorder as well as those prone to having the disease or disorder including those in which the disease or disorder is to be prevented. A variety of diseases that may be treated using the Fc variants of the present invention are described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 filed May 5 2005 and entitled Optimized Fc Variants hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment an Fc variant of the present invention is the only therapeutically active agent administered to a patient. Alternatively the Fc variant of the present invention is administered in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents including but not limited to cytotoxic agents chemotherapeutic agents cytokines growth inhibitory agents anti hormonal agents kinase inhibitors anti angiogenic agents cardioprotectants or other therapeutic agents as well as pre or post surgery. The IgG variants may be administered concomitantly with one or more other therapeutic regimens. For example an Fc variant of the present invention may be administered to the patient along with surgery chemotherapy radiation therapy or any or all of surgery chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In one embodiment the Fc variant of the present invention may be administered in conjunction with one or more antibodies which may or may not comprise an Fc variant of the present invention. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the Fc variant of the present invention and one or more other anti cancer therapies are employed to treat cancer cells ex vivo. It is contemplated that such ex vivo treatment may be useful in bone marrow transplantation and particularly autologous bone marrow transplantation. It is of course contemplated that the Fc variants of the invention can be employed in combination with still other therapeutic techniques such as surgery. A variety of agents that may be co administered with the Fc variants of the present invention are described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620.

A variety of other therapeutic agents may find use for administration with the Fc variants of the present invention. In one embodiment the IgG is administered with an anti angiogenic agent. By anti angiogenic agent as used herein is meant a compound that blocks or interferes to some degree the development of blood vessels. The anti angiogenic factor may for instance be a small molecule or a protein for example an antibody Fc fusion or cytokine that binds to a growth factor or growth factor receptor involved in promoting angiogenesis. The anti angiogenic factor herein is an antibody that binds to Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor VEGF . In an alternate embodiment the IgG is administered with a therapeutic agent that induces or enhances adaptive immune response for example an antibody that targets CTLA 4. In an alternate embodiment the IgG is administered with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. By tyrosine kinase inhibitor as used herein is meant a molecule that inhibits to some extent tyrosine kinase activity of a tyrosine kinase. In an alternate embodiment the Fc variants of the present invention are administered with a cytokine. By cytokine as used herein is meant a generic term for proteins released by one cell population that act on another cell as intercellular mediators.

Pharmaceutical compositions are contemplated wherein an Fc variant of the present invention and one or more therapeutically active agents are formulated. Formulations of the Fc variants of the present invention are prepared for storage by mixing the IgG having the desired degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 hereby entirely incorporated by reference in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. The formulations to be used for in vivo administration are preferably sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes or other methods. The Fc variants and other therapeutically active agents disclosed herein may also be formulated as immunoliposomes and or entrapped in microcapsules.

The concentration of the therapeutically active Fc variant in the formulation may vary from about 0.001 to 100 weight . In certain embodiments the concentration of the IgG is in the range of 0.003 to 1.0 molar. In order to treat a patient a therapeutically effective dose of the Fc variant of the present invention may be administered. By therapeutically effective dose herein is meant a dose that produces the effects for which it is administered. The exact dose will depend on the purpose of the treatment and will be ascertainable by one skilled in the art using known techniques. Dosages may range from 0.001 to 100 mg kg of body weight or greater for example 0.1 1 10 or 50 mg kg of body weight with 1 to 10 mg kg being preferred. As is known in the art adjustments for protein degradation systemic versus localized delivery and rate of new protease synthesis as well as the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration drug interaction and the severity of the condition may be necessary and will be ascertainable with routine experimentation by those skilled in the art.

Administration of the pharmaceutical composition comprising an Fc variant of the present invention preferably in the form of a sterile aqueous solution may be done in a variety of ways including but not limited to orally subcutaneously intravenously intranasally intraotically transdermally topically e.g. gels salves lotions creams etc. intraperitoneally intramuscularly intrapulmonary e.g. AERx inhalable technology commercially available from Aradigm or Inhance pulmonary delivery system commercially available from Inhale Therapeutics vaginally parenterally rectally or intraocularly.

Examples are provided below to illustrate the present invention. These examples are not meant to constrain the present invention to any particular application or theory of operation.

Sequence and structural analysis of the Fc Fc R interface was carried out for the different human Fc Rs. A central goal was to generate variants with selectively increased affinity for the activating receptors Fc RI Fc RIIa Fc RIIc and Fc RIIIa relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb and selectively increased affinity for Fc RIIb relative to the activating receptors. shows an alignment of the sequences of the human Fc Rs highlighting the differences from Fc RIIb and positions at the Fc interface. The analysis indicates that although there is extensive homology among the human Fc Rs there are significant differences. Particularly relevant are differences at the Fc binding interface that may be capitalized on to engineer selective Fc variants.

The utility of this analysis is illustrated using the example of Fc RIIa vs. Fc RIIb. Engineering an Fc variant that selectively improves binding to Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb is potentially the most challenging embodiment of the present invention due principally to the high sequence homology of these two receptors particularly at the Fc Fc R interface. shows that there are 3 or 4 differences between Fc RIIb and Fc RIIa depending on allotype that distinguish binding of these receptors to the Fc region . These include differences at 127 Fc RIIa is Gln Fc RIIb is Lys 131 Fc RIIa is either His or Arg depending on the allotype Fc RIIb is an Arg 132 Fc RIIa is Leu Fc RIIb is Ser and 160 Fc RIIa is Phe Fc RIIb is Tyr . Fc R numbering here is according to that provided in the 1E4K pdb structure for Fc RIIIb. Mapping of these differences onto the Fc Fc RIIIb complex reveals that Fc residues that interact with these Fc R residues occur at Fc positions 235 237 328 330 and 332 on the A chain and at positions 235 239 265 270 295 296 298 299 and 325 329 on the B chain in the 1E4K pdb structure Fc Rs bind asymmetrically to the Fc homodimer . Thus Fc positions 235 239 265 270 295 296 298 299 325 330 and 332 are positions that may be modified to obtain Fc variants with selectively increased affinity Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb. A similar analysis can be carried out for selectively altering affinity to one or more of the other activating receptors relative to the inhibitory receptor for example for selectively improving affinity for Fc RIIIa relative to Fc RIIb or conversely for selectively improving affinity for Fc RIIb relative to Fc RIIIa.

Fc R binding data provided in FIG. 41 of U.S. Ser. No. 11 124 620 hereby entirely incorporated by reference indicate that indeed amino acid modification at some of these positions provide selective enhancement or reduction in Fc R affinity. For example G236S provides a selective enhancement to Fc RII s Fc RIIa Fc RIIb and Fc RIIc relative to Fc RI and Fc RIIIa with a somewhat greater enhancement to Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb and Fc RIIc. G236A however is highly selectively enhanced for Fc RIIa not only with respect to Fc RI and Fc RIIIa but also over Fc RIIb and Fc RIIc. Selective enhancements and reductions are observed for a number of Fc variants including a number of substitutions occurring at the analyzed above namely 235 239 265 270 295 296 298 299 325 330 and 332. Although substitutions at some of these positions have been characterized previously U.S. Pat. No. 5 624 821 Lund et al. 1991 J Immunol 147 8 2657 2662 U.S. Pat. No. 6 737 056 Shields et al. 2001 J Biol Chem 276 9 6591 6604 such substitutions have not been characterized with respect to their affinities for the full set of human activating and inhibitory Fc Rs.

Amino acid modifications were engineered at these positions to generate variants with selective Fc R affinity. Fc variants were engineered in the context of the anti CD20 antibody PRO70769 PCT US2003 040426 hereby entirely incorporated by reference . The genes for the variable regions of PRO70769 SEQ IDs NO 1 and NO 2 and were constructed using recursive PCR and subcloned into the mammalian expression vector pcDNA3.1Zeo Invitrogen comprising the full length light kappa C and heavy chain IgG1 constant regions. Amino acid substitutions were constructed in the variable region of the antibody in the pcDNA3.1Zeo vector using quick change mutagenesis techniques Stratagene . DNA was sequenced to confirm the fidelity of the sequences. Plasmids containing heavy chain gene VH CH1 CH2 CH3 wild type or variants were co transfected with plasmid containing light chain gene VL C into 293T cells. Media were harvested 5 days after transfection and antibodies were purified from the supernatant using protein A affinity chromatography Pierce .

Binding affinity to human Fc Rs by Fc variant anti CD20 antibodies was measured using a competitive AlphaScreen assay. The AlphaScreen is a bead based luminescent proximity assay. Laser excitation of a donor bead excites oxygen which if sufficiently close to the acceptor bead will generate a cascade of chemiluminescent events ultimately leading to fluorescence emission at 520 620 nm. The AlphaScreen was applied as a competition assay for screening the antibodies. Wild type IgG1 antibody was biotinylated by standard methods for attachment to streptavidin donor beads and tagged Fc R was bound to glutathione chelate acceptor beads. In the absence of competing Fc polypeptides wild type antibody and Fc R interact and produce a signal at 520 620 nm. Addition of untagged antibody competes with wild type Fc Fc R interaction reducing fluorescence quantitatively to enable determination of relative binding affinities.

In order to screen for Fc Fc R binding the extracellular regions of human Fc Rs were expressed and purified. The extracellular regions of these receptors were obtained by PCR from clones obtained from the Mammalian Gene Collection MGC or generated de novo using recursive PCR. To enable purification and screening receptors were fused C terminally with either a His tag or with His glutathione S Transferase GST . Tagged Fc Rs were transfected into 293T cells and media containing secreted receptor were harvested 3 days later and purified using Nickel chromatography. Additionally some His tagged Fc Rs were purchased commercially from R D Systems.

Competition AlphaScreen data were acquired for binding of the Fc variants to human Fc RI R131 Fc RIIa H131 Fc RIIa Fc RIIb and V158 Fc RIIIa. show the data for binding of select antibody variants to the human receptors R131 Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb . The data were fit to a one site competition model using nonlinear regression and these fits are represented by the curves in the figure. These fits provide the inhibitory concentration 50 IC50 i.e. the concentration required for 50 inhibition for each antibody thus enabling the relative binding affinities relative to WT to be determined. provides the IC50 s and Fold IC50 s relative to WT for fits to these binding curves for all of the anti CD20 antibody Fc variants tested. The data support the analysis above that substitution at positions within the binding region defined by 235 239 265 270 295 296 298 299 325 330 and 332 may be involved in distinguishing the different affinities of the Fc region for the different Fc Rs. For example as shown by the data variants comprising modifications at 235 236 267 and 328 have varying affinity improvements and reductions relative to the parent antibody for the different Fc Rs including even the highly homologous Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb. It is notable that with respect to engineering optimal Fc R selectivity for antibodies and Fc fusions single variants do not necessarily completely provide favorable Fc R affinities see for example Table 1 . For example although the single variant G236A provides selectively improved affinity to Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb it is reduced in affinity for both the other activating receptors Fc RI and Fc RIIIa. However combination of this substitution with other modifications that provide increased affinity to these other activating receptors for example I332E results in an Fc variant with a promising Fc R affinity profile namely increased affinity for Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb.

Based on these results a number of additional Fc variants were constructed in the context of the anti EGFR antibody H4.40 L3.32 C225 SEQ IDs NO 3 and NO 4 and as disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 60 778 226 filed Mar. 2 2006 entitled Optimized anti EGFR antibodies herein expressly incorporated by reference . Antibody variants were constructed in the IgG1 pcDNA3.1Zeo vector expressed in 293T cells and purified as described above. Binding affinity to human Fc Rs by Fc variant anti EGFR antibodies was measured using a competition AlphaScreen assay as described above. shows binding data for the Fc variants to human Fc RI R131 Fc RIIa H131 Fc RIIa Fc RIIb and V158 Fc RIIIa. provides the IC50 s and Fold IC50 s relative to WT for fits to these binding curves for all of the anti EGFR antibody Fc variants tested. The data indicate that it is possible to combine modifications at the aforementioned positions to generate variants with selectively improved affinity for one or more human activating receptors relative to the human inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb.

Based on these results a number of additional Fc variants were constructed in the context of the anti EpCAM antibody H3.77 L3 17 1A SEQ IDs NO 5 and NO 6 and as disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 11 484 183 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 484 198 filed in Jul. 10 2006 herein expressly incorporated by reference . Antibody variants were constructed in the pcDNA3.1Zeo vector as described above. Antibody variants were constructed in the context of the IgG1 heavy chain and or in the context of a novel IgG molecule referred to as IgG hybrid SEQ ID NO 14 described in U.S. Ser. No. 11 256 060 filed Oct. 21 2005 hereby entirely incorporated by reference. Antibodies were expressed in 293T cells and purified as described above.

Binding affinity to human Fc Rs by Fc variant anti EpCAM antibodies was measured using surface plasmon resonance SPR also referred to as BIAcore. SPR measurements were performed using a BIAcore 3000 instrument BIAcore Uppsala Sweden . Running buffer was 10 mM HEPES pH 7.4 150 mM NaCl 3 mM EDTA 0.005 v v Surfactant P20 HBS EP BIAcore and chip regeneration buffer was 10 mM glycine HCl pH 1.5. 100 nM WT or variant anti EpCAM antibody was bound to the protein A G CM5 chip in HBS EP at 1 l min for 5 min. 50 l Fc R His analyte in serial dilutions between 30 and 1000 nM was injected in HBS EP at 25 I min for 2 minutes association followed by a dissociation phase with buffer alone. Data were normalized for baseline response obtained from a cycle with antibody and buffer alone. Response sensorgrams were fit to a 1 1 Langmuir binding model within BIAevaluation software providing the association ka and dissociation kd rate constants and the equilibrium dissociation constant KD .

A Fold KD greater than 1 for a given receptor indicates that the variant improves affinity relative to the WT parent whereas a Fold KD less than 1 indicates the variant reduces affinity relative to the WT parent. provides a plot of the negative log of the KD for binding of select anti EpCAM Fc variants to the set of human Fc Rs. Here greater log KD on the y axis corresponds to tighter affinity for the receptor. In order to better view the impact of the substitutions on Fc R specificity the activating versus inhibitory Fc R affinity differences are plotted for Fc RIIa vs. Fc RIIb and Fc RIIIa vs. Fc RIIb. Here for each variant the log KD for its binding to Fc RIIb is subtracted from the log KD for it binding to the activating receptor providing a direct measure of Fc R selectivity of the variants. Notably all variants comprising the G236A substitution including I332E G236A S239D I332E G236A and I332E H268E G236A have favorable Fc RIIa Fc RIIb selectivity relative to respectively the I332E S239D I332E and I332E H268E variants alone. Thus the results show that suboptimal G236A substitution can be combined with other substitutions that have favorable Fc R affinities to generate Fc variants with the most optimal Fc R affinity profiles.

In order to calculate the selective enhancement in affinity for the activating receptors relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb for each variant this analysis must be carried out with respect to the parent antibody either WT IgG1 or WT IgG hybrid in this example. The selective enhancement in affinity for Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb provided by an Fc variant is defined as Fold KD Fold KD also written as Fold KD Fold KD . This value is calculated as follows Fold Fold Fold Fold Equation 2 

Likewise the selective enhancement in affinity for Fc RIIIa relative to Fc RIIb provided by an Fc variant is calculated as follows Fold Fold Fold Fold Equation 3 

A central goal of improving the activating Fc R vs. inhibitory Fc R profile of an antibody or Fc fusion was to enhance its Fc R mediated effector function in vitro and ultimately in vivo. To investigate the capacity of antibodies comprising the Fc variants of the present invention to carry out Fc R mediated effector function in vitro cell based ADCC assays were run using human PBMCs as effector cells. ADCC was measured by the release of lactose dehydrogenase using a LDH Cytotoxicity Detection Kit Roche Diagnostic . Human PBMCs were purified from leukopacks using a ficoll gradient and the EpCAM target gastric adenocarcinoma line LS180. Target cells were seeded into 96 well plates at 10 000 cells well and opsonized using Fc variant or WT antibodies at the indicated final concentration. Triton X100 and PBMCs alone were run as controls. Effector cells were added at 40 1 PBMCs target cells and the plate was incubated at 37 C. for 4 hrs. Cells were incubated with the LDH reaction mixture and fluorescence was measured using a Fusion Alpha FP Perkin Elmer . Data were normalized to maximal triton and minimal PBMCs alone lysis and fit to a sigmoidal dose response model. provides these data for select Fc variant antibodies. The G236A variant mediates reduced ADCC relative to WT due likely to its reduced affinity for Fc RIIIa and or Fc RI. ADCC in PBMCs is potentially dominated by NK cells which express only Fc RIIIa although in some cases they can express Fc RIIc. Thus the reduced ADCC of the G236A single variant is consistent with its reduced affinity for this receptor. However combination of the G236A substitution with modifications that improve affinity for these activating receptors for example including but not limited to substitutions at 332 and 239 provide substantially improved ADCC relative to the parent WT antibody.

Monocyte derived effector cells including for example macrophages express not only Fc RIIIa but also Fc RI Fc RIIa and the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. Macrophages are phagocytes that act as scavengers to engulf dead cells foreign substances and other debris. Importantly macrophages are professional antigen presenting cells APCs taking up pathogens and foreign structures in peripheral tissues then migrating to secondary lymphoid organs to initiate adaptive immune responses by activating naive T cells. Unlike NK cells macrophages express the range of Fc Rs and thus their activation and function may be dependent on engagement of antibody immune complexes with receptors other than only Fc RIIIa.

A cell based ADCP assay was carried out to evaluate the capacity of the Fc variants to mediate phagocytosis. Monocytes were purified from PBMCs and differentiated into macrophages in 50 ng ml M CSF for 5 days. Quantitated receptor expression density of Fc RI CD64 Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb CD32 and Fc RIIIa CD16 on these cells was determined with standard flow cytometry methods using PE orange labeled anti Fc Rs and biotinylated PE Cy5 labeled antibodies against macrophage markers CD11b and CD14. PE conjugated anti CD64 Clone 10.1 was purchased from eBioscience PE conjugated anti CD32 Clone 3D3 and PE conjugated anti CD16 Clone 3G8 were purchased from BD Bioscience. Biotinylated anti CD14 TUK4 was purchased from Invitrogen and biotinylated anti CD11b Clone ICRF44 was purchased from BD Bioscience. Secondary detection was performed with streptavidin PE Cy5 obtained from Biolegend. Cytometry was carried out on a Guava Personal Cell Analysis 96 PCA 96 System Guava Technologies . shows that the monocyte derived macrophages MDM express high levels of Fc RII 99 and Fc RIII 81 and moderate 45 levels of Fc RI. The inability to distinguish between Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb is due to the unavailability of commercial antibodies that selectively bind these two receptors.

For ADCP assays with MDM as effector cells target EpCAM LS180 cells were labeled with PKH26 and plated in a 96 well round bottom plate at 25 000 cells well. Antibodies WT and Fc variants were added to wells at indicated concentrations and antibody opsinized cells were incubated for approximately 30 minutes prior to the addition of effector cells. Monocyte derived macrophages MDM were added to each well at approximately 4 1 effector to target ratio and the cells were incubated overnight. Cells were washed and treated with HyQtase. MDM were stained with biotinylated CD11b and CD14 followed by a secondary stain with Streptavidin PE Cy5. Cells were fixed in 1 paraformaldehyde and read on the Guava flow cytometer.

Dendritic cells DCs are professional antigen presenting cells APCs that take up pathogens foreign structures in peripheral tissues then migrate to secondary lymphoid organs where they initiate adaptive immune responses by activating naive T cells. Immature DCs endocytose either free or complexed antigens in the periphery and this stimulus induces their maturation and migration to secondary lymphoid organs. Mature DCs expressing costimulatory molecules and produce various cytokines including for example TNF to efficiently activate antigen specific naive T cells. DC derived cytokines play a crucial role in shaping the adaptive response via determining polarization of T cells towards either the Th1 or the Th2 phenotype Bajtay et al. 2006 Immunol Letters 104 46 52 . Human DCs can express the various Fc Rs depending on their source and activation state Bajtay et al. 2006 Immunol Letters 104 46 52 . In contrast to circulating monocytic precursors to DCs which can express the range of Fc Rs immature monocyte derived DCs express primarily Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb. Recent data suggest that the relative engagement of Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb by immune complexes establishes a threshold of DC activation mediating opposing effects on DC maturation and function Boruchov et al. 2005 J Clin Invest 115 10 2914 23 .

To evaluate the effect of the different Fc R affinity profiles on DC maturation a cell based assay was carried out using TNF release to monitor DC activation. Dendritic cells DCs were generated from CD14 sorted cells that were cultured in the presence of GM CSF 1000 Units ml or 100 ng ml and IL4 500 Units ml or 100 ng ml for six days. Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb CD32 and Fc RIIIa CD16 expression on these cells was determined with standard flow cytometry methods using PE labeled anti Fc Rs. PE conjugated anti CD64 Clone 10.1 was purchased from eBioscience PE conjugated anti CD32 Clone 3D3 and PE conjugated anti CD16 Clone 3G8 were purchased from BD Bioscience. Cytometry was carried out on the Guava. shows that the DCs used express high levels of Fc RII 94.7 low to moderate levels of Fc RIII 37.2 and low to no Fc RI 7.3 .

For the DC activation assay DCs were cultured in the presence of various concentrations of antibody and EpCAM LS180 cells overnight. Supernatants were harvested and tested for TNF by ELISA. shows the dose response curves for TNF release by DCs in the presence of WT and Fc variant antibodies. The data show that DC activation is correlated roughly with the Fc RIIa Fc RIIb affinity ratio consistent with the literature and the dominant expression of Fc RII receptors on the DCs used in the present assay. I332E and S239D I332E mediate DC activation comparable with or lower than WT in agreement with their Fc RIIa Fc RIIb affinity profile. However addition of a substitution that selectively improves the Fc R affinity for Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb in this case G236A dramatically improves DC activation I332E G236A and S239D I332E G236A show enhanced DC activation relative to WT I332E and S239D I332E. Together the macrophage phagocytosis and DC activation data are the first examples of the use of antibody Fc variants with improved FcRIIa Fc RIIb affinity profiles to enhance the function of antigen presenting cells. Along with the ADCC data the cell based results indicate that the most optimal engineered Fc R profile is selectively improved affinity for both Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb for example as provided by the combination of S239D I332E and G236A substitutions.

Taken together the data provided in the present invention indicate that combinations of amino acid modifications at positions 235 236 237 238 239 265 266 267 268 269 270 295 296 298 299 325 326 327 328 329 330 and 332 provide promising candidates for selectively modifying the Fc R binding properties the effector function and potentially the clinical properties of Fc polypeptides including antibodies and Fc fusions. In particular Fc variants that selectively improve binding to one or more human activating receptors relative to Fc RIIb or selectively improve binding to Fc RIIb relative to one or more activating receptors may comprise a substitution as described herein selected from the group consisting of 234G 234I 235D 235E 235I 235Y 236A 236S 239D 267D 267E 267Q 268D 268E 293R 295E 324G 324I 327H 328A 328F 328I 330I 330L 330Y 332D and 332E. Additional substitutions that may also be combined include other substitutions that modulate Fc R affinity and complement activity including but not limited to 298A 298T 326A 326D 326E 326W 326Y 333A 333S 334L and 334A U.S. Pat. No. 6 737 056 Shields et al Journal of Biological Chemistry 2001 276 9 6591 6604 U.S. Pat. No. 6 528 624 Idusogie et al. 2001 J. Immunology 166 2571 2572 . Preferred variants that may be particularly useful to combine with variants of the present invention include those that comprise the substitutions 298A 326A 333A and 334A. AlphaScreen data measuring the binding of Fc variants comprising these substitutions to the human activating receptors V158 and F158 Fc RIIIa and the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb are shown in . Additional substitutions that may be combined with the Fc R selective variants of the present invention 247L 255L 270E 392T 396L and 421K U.S. Ser. No. 10 754 922 U.S. Ser. No. 10 902 588 and 280H 280Q and 280Y U.S. Ser. No. 10 370 749 all of which are herein expressly incorporated by reference

In particularly preferred embodiments of the invention Fc variants of the present invention may be combined with Fc variants that alter FcRn binding. In particular variants that increase Fc binding to FcRn include but are not limited to 250E 250Q 428L 428F 250Q 428L Hinton et al. 2004 J. Biol. Chem. 279 8 6213 6216 Hinton et al. 2006 Journal of Immunology 176 346 356 U.S. Ser. No. 11 102 621 PCT US2003 033037 PCT US2004 011213 U.S. Ser. No. 10 822 300 U.S. Ser. No. 10 687 118 PCT US2004 034440 U.S. Ser. No. 10 966 673 all entirely incorporated by reference 256A 272A 286A 305A 307A 311A 312A 376A 378Q 380A 382A 434A Shields et al Journal of Biological Chemistry 2001 276 9 6591 6604 U.S. Ser. No. 10 982 470 U.S. Pat. No. 6 737 056 U.S. Ser. No. 11 429 793 U.S. Ser. No. 11 429 786 PCT US2005 029511 U.S. Ser. No. 11 208 422 all entirely incorporated by reference 252F 252T 252Y 252W 254T 256S 256R 256Q 256E 256D 256T 309P 311S 433R 433S 433I 433P 433Q 434H 434F 434Y 252Y 254T 256E 433K 434F 436H 308T 309P 311S Dall Acqua et al. Journal of Immunology 2002 169 5171 5180 U.S. Pat. No. 7 083 784 PCT US97 03321 U.S. Pat. No. 6 821 505 PCT US01 48432 U.S. Ser. No. 11 397 328 all entirely incorporated by reference 257C 257M 257L 257N 257Y 279E 279Q 279Y insertion of Ser after 281 283F 284E 306Y 307V 308F 308Y 311V 385H 385N PCT US2005 041220 U.S. Ser. No. 11 274 065 U.S. Ser. No. 11 436 266 all entirely incorporated by reference 204D 284E 285E 286D and 290E PCT US2004 037929 entirely incorporated by reference .

This list of preferred Fc variants is not meant to constrain the present invention. Indeed all combinations of the any of the Fc variants provided are embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore combinations of any of the Fc variants of the present invention with other discovered or undiscovered Fc variants may also provide favorable properties and these combinations are also contemplated as embodiments of the present invention. Further substitutions at all positions disclosed herein are contemplated.

An alternative method to amino acid modification for modulating Fc R affinity of an Fc polypeptide is glycoform engineering. As discussed antibodies are post translationally modified at position 297 of the Fc region with a complex carbohydrate moiety. It is well known in the art that this glycosylation plays a role in the functional fidelity of the Fc region with respect to binding Fc ligands particularly Fc Rs and complement. It is also well established in the art that Fc polypeptide compositions that comprise a mature core carbohydrate structure which lacks fucose have improved Fc R affinity relative to compositions that comprise carbohydrate that is fucosylated Uma a et al. 1999 Nat Biotechnol 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 Biotechnol Bioeng 74 288 294 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 26733 26740 Shinkawa et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 3466 3473 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 U.S. Ser. No. 10 113 929 PCT WO 00 61739A1 PCT WO 01129246A1 PCT WO 02 31140A1 PCT WO 02 30954A1 . However previous studies have shown that although reduction of fucose content improves the affinity of an IgG for human Fc RIIIa it has no effect on binding to human Fc RI either isoform R131 or H131 of human Fc RIIa or human Fc RIIb U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 90 26733 26740 . Recent experiments have determined that the high affinity between glycoengineered antibodies and FORM is mediated by productive interactions formed between the receptor carbohydrate attached at Asn162 and regions of the Fc that are only accessible when it is nonfucosylated. Because Fc RIIIa and Fc RIIIb are the only human Fc receptors glycosylated at this position the proposed interactions explain the observed selective affinity increase of glycoengineered antibodies for only these receptors Ferrara et al. 2006 J Biol Chem 281 8 5032 5036 .

The data provided in Example 1 suggest that combination of glycoform engineering with Fc R selective amino acid modifications may provide Fc variants with selectively improved affinity for one or more activating receptors relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb.

In order to explore whether amino acid modification would enable such selective Fc R binding we evaluated preferred amino acid substitutions in the context of antibodies with reduced fucose content. The Lec13 cell line Ripka et al. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 49 533 545 1986 was utilized to express human antibodies with reduced fucose content. Lec13 refers to the lectin resistant Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO mutant cell line which displays a defective fucose metabolism and therefore has a diminished ability to add fucose to complex carbohydrates. That cell line is described in Ripka Stanley 1986 Somatic Cell Molec. Gen. 12 1 51 62 and Ripka et al. 1986 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 249 2 533 545. Lec13 cells are believed lack the transcript for GDP D mannose 4 6 dehydratase a key enzyme for fucose metabolism. Ohyama et al. 1988 J. Biol. Chem. 273 23 14582 14587. GDP D mannose 4 6 dehydratase generates GDP mannose 4 keto 6 D deoxymannose from GDP mannose which is then converted by the FX protein to GDP L fucose. Expression of fucosylated oligosaccharides is dependent on the GDP L fucose donor substrates and fucosyltransferase s . The Lec13 CHO cell line is deficient in its ability to add fucose but provides IgG with oligosaccharide which is otherwise similar to that found in normal CHO cell lines and from human serum Jefferis R. et al. 1990 Biochem. J. 268 529 537 Raju S. et al. 2000 Glycobiology 10 477 486 Routier F. H. et al. 1997 Glycoconj. J. 14 201 207 . Normal CHO and HEK293 cells add fucose to IgG oligosaccharide to a high degree typically from 80 98 and IgGs from sera are also highly fucosylated Jefferis R. et al. 1990 Biochem. J. 268 529 537 Raju S. et al. 2000 Glycobiology 10 477 486 Routier F. H. et al. 1997 Glycoconj. J. 14 201 207 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 90 26733 26740 . It is well established that antibodies expressed in transfected Lec13 cells consistently produce about 10 fucosylated carbohydrate Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 90 26733 26740 .

WT G236A and S239D I332E variant anti EpCAM antibodies were each transiently expressed in 293T and Lec13 cells and purified as described above. Binding affinity to human Fc RI H131 Fc RIIa R131 Fc RIIa Fc RIIb and V158 Fc RIIIa by Fc variant anti EpCAM antibodies was measured using the SPR experiment described above. provides the equilibrium constants obtained from the fits of the SPR data for all of the receptors as well as the calculated fold KD relative to WT and the negative log of the KD log KD . provides a plot of the negative log of the KD for binding of the antibodies to the set of human Fc Rs. The data confirm that reduced fucosylation provides an increase in affinity only for Fc RIIIa and does not alter affinity for any of the other Fc Rs. However combination of glycoengineering with a substitution that selectively improves the Fc R affinity for Fc RIIa relative to Fc RIIb in this case G236A provides the optimal Fc R affinity profile of selectively improved affinity for Fc RIIa and Fc RIIIa relative to the inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb. Given the macrophage phagocytosis and DC activation data provided above this novel combination of glycoengineering and amino acid substitutions with selective Fc R affinity profiles has the potential for producing more efficacious therapeutic antibodies than glycoengineering alone.

The use of the Lec13 cell line is not meant to limit the present invention to that particular mode of reducing fucose content. A variety of other methods are known in the art for controlling the level of fucosylated and or bisecting oligosaccharides that are covalently attached to the Fc region including but not limited to expression in various organisms or cell lines engineered or otherwise for example Lec13 CHO cells or rat hybridoma YB2 0 cells regulation of enzymes involved in the glycosylation pathway for example FUT8 1 6 fucosyltranserase and or 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII and modification of modifying carbohydrate s after the IgG has been expressed Uma a et al. 1999 Nat Biotechnol 17 176 180 Davies et al. 2001 Biotechnol Bioeng 74 288 294 Shields et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 26733 26740 Shinkawa et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 3466 3473 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 U.S. Ser. No. 10 277 370 U.S. Ser. No. 10 113 929 PCT WO 00 61739A1 PCT WO 01 29246A1 PCT WO 02 31140A1 PCT WO 02 30954A1 .

Substitutions were engineered in the context of the S239D I332E and S239D I332E variants to explore additional Fc variants with optimized Fc R binding properties. Variants were constructed with the variable region of the anti CD30 antibody H3.69 V2 L3.71 AC10 SEQ IDs NO 7 and NO 8 and as disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 60 776 598 filed Feb. 24 2006 entitled Optimized anti CD30 antibodies herein expressly incorporated by reference . Antibody variants were constructed in the IgG hybrid pcDNA3.1Zeo vector expressed in 293T cells and purified as described above. Binding affinity to human Fc Rs by Fc variant anti CD30 antibodies was measured using the competition AlphaScreen assay as described above. shows binding data for select Fc variants to human V158 Fc RIIIa. provides the Fold IC50 s relative to WT for fits to these binding curves for all of the anti CD30 antibody Fc variants tested.

The biological properties of antibodies and Fc fusions have been tested in in vivo models in order to measure a drug s efficacy for treatment against a disease or disease model or to measure a drug s pharmacokinetics toxicity and other properties. A common organism used for such studies is the mouse including but not limited to nude mice SCID mice xenograft mice and transgenic mice including knockins and knockouts . Interpretation of the results from such studies is a challenge because mouse Fc Rs different substantially from human Fc Rs in their homology their expression pattern on effector cells and their signaling biology. highlights some of these key differences. shows the putative expression patterns of different Fc Rs on various effector cell types and shows the identity between the human and mouse Fc R extracellular domains. Of particular importance is the existence of Fc RIV discovered originally as CD16 2 Mechetina et al. 2002 Immunogenetics 54 463 468 and renamed Fc RIV Nimmerjahn Ravetch 2005 Science 310 1510 1512 . Fc RIV is thought to be the true ortholog of human Fc RIIIa and the two receptors are 64 identical . However whereas human Fc RIIIa is expressed on NK cells mouse Fc RIV is not. The receptor that is expressed on mouse NK cells is Fc RIII which shows substantially lower homology to human Fc RIIIa 49 . Interestingly mouse Fc RIII is 93 homologous to the mouse inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb a pair that is potentially analogous to human Fc RIIa and Fc RIIb 93 identical . However the expression pattern of mouse Fc RIII differs from that of human Fc RIIa.

These differences highlight the difficulties in interpreting results from in vivo experiments in mice using human antibodies when Fc receptor biology may affect outcome. The most optimal human antibody in humans with respect to Fc R mediated effector function widely viewed to be IgG1 likely does not have the optimal Fc R affinity profile for the murine receptors. Accordingly Fc variant antibodies having optimized affinity for human Fc receptors may not provide optimal enhancements in mice and thus may provide misleading results. The most optimal mouse Fc R affinity profile is likely provided by the most naturally optimal mouse IgG or IgGs for example mouse IgG2a and or IgG2b. Accordingly engineering of mouse IgGs for optimized affinity for mouse Fc Rs may provide the most informative results in in vivo experiments. In this way Fc optimized mouse IgGs may find use as surrogate Fc optimized antibodies in preclinical mouse models. The present invention provides mouse IgG antibodies optimized for binding to mouse Fc Rs.

Fc substitutions were constructed in the context of mouse IgG1 mouse IgG2a mouse IgG2b and human IgG1 . DNA encoding murine IgGs were obtained as IMAGE clones from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Antibodies were constructed with the variable region of the anti EGFR antibody H4.40 L3.32 C225 SEQ IDs NO 3 and NO 4 and as disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 60 778 226 filed Mar. 2 2006 entitled Optimized anti EGFR antibodies herein expressly incorporated by reference . Antibody variants were constructed in the pcDNA3.1Zeo vector expressed in 293T cells and purified as described above. lists the mouse and human IgG variants that were engineered.

Binding affinities to the murine activating receptors Fc RI Fc RIII and Fc RIV and the murine inhibitory receptor Fc RIIb were measured using the SPR experiment described above. His tagged murine Fc Rs were purchased commercially from R D Systems. shows equilibrium constants obtained from the fits of the SPR data for the set of murine Fc Rs. Also presented is the calculated fold KD relative to WT murine IgG2a potentially the most potent natural murine IgG antibody with respect to Fc R mediated effector function Hamaguchi et al. 2005 J Immunol 174 4389 4399 . shows a plot of the negative log of the KD for binding of human and mouse anti EGFR Fc variant antibodies to mouse Fc receptors Fc RI Fc RIIb Fc RIII and Fc RIV. The variants provide remarkable enhancements in binding to the murine activating receptors particularly Fc RIV currently thought to be one of the most relevant receptors for mediating antibody dependent effector functions in murine xencograft models Nimmerjahn Ravetch 2005 Science 310 1510 1512 . The results indicate that the Fc R binding properties of the murine IgGs can be improved using the Fc variants of the present invention and thus may provide utility for preclinical testing of antibodies and Fc fusions that comprise Fc variants with optimized Fc receptor binding properties.

Whereas particular embodiments of the invention have been described above for purposes of illustration it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that numerous variations of the details may be made without departing from the invention as described in the appended claims.

