---

title: Intelligent notifications with dynamic escalations
abstract: A method includes executing instructions recorded on a non-transitory computer-readable storage media using at least one processor. The method includes receiving, at a device, at least two communications from a sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes, determining a notification mode for the device based on an identity of the sender and at least two of the communication modes being different from one another and providing a notification on the device using the determined notification mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504114&OS=08504114&RS=08504114
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08504114
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101203
---
This description relates to systems and techniques for intelligent notifications with dynamic escalations.

More and more people use mobile communication devices to communicate with various family friends and acquaintances. For example people use mobile communication devices to make and receive telephone calls send and receive electronic mail send and receive text and other types of messages and browse the web.

When messages come in or when other events occur on a mobile device it is customary for the device to make a noise signaling the event. Such an action derives from traditional telephones which ring when someone is calling. Such rings can now be customized depending on the identity of the caller for the incoming call. Also a device may be switched to vibrate mode when silence is desired such as at a meeting a movie or a play. For other sorts of incoming messages such as e mails or for other events the device may beep vibrate or provide some other form of alert.

According to one general aspect a method includes executing instructions recorded on a non transitory computer readable storage media using at least one processor. The method includes receiving at a device at least two communications from a sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes determining a notification mode for the device based on an identity of the sender and at least two of the communication modes being different from one another and providing a notification on the device using the determined notification mode.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example determining the notification mode may include determining the notification mode for the device based also on a frequency of the communications. Determining the notification mode may include determining the notification mode for the device based also on a period of time between a change in the communication mode. Determining the notification mode may include changing the notification mode from a non audible notification mode and providing the notification may include providing an audible notification using an audible notification mode. Determining the notification mode may include determining the notification mode for the device based also on an importance group of the sender. The method may further include increasing a frequency of the notification on the device using the determined notification mode. The method may further include allowing a user of the device to configure the notification modes.

In another general aspect a recordable storage medium has recorded and stored thereon instructions that when executed perform the actions of receiving at a device at least two communications from a sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes determining a notification mode for the device based on an identity of the sender and at least two of the communication modes being different from one another and providing a notification on the device using the determined notification mode.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode may include instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode for the device based also on a frequency of the communications. The instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode may include instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode for the device based also on a period of time between a change in the communication mode. The instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode may include instructions that when executed perform the action of changing the notification mode from a non audible notification mode and the instructions that when executed perform the action of providing the notification may include instructions that when executed perform the action of providing an audible notification using an audible notification mode. The instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode may include instructions that when executed perform the action of determining the notification mode for the device based also an importance group of the sender.

The recordable storage medium may further include instructions that when executed perform the action of increasing a frequency of the notification on the device using the determined notification mode. The recordable storage may further include instructions that when executed perform the action of allowing a user of the device to configure the notification modes.

In another general aspect an apparatus includes a processor a memory that is operably coupled to the processor a wireless interface that is operably coupled to the processor and that is arranged and configured to receive at the apparatus at least two communications from a sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes and a notification manager that is operably coupled to the processor and that is arranged and configured to determine a notification mode for the device based on an identity of the sender and at least two of the communication modes being different from one another and provide a notification on the apparatus using the determined notification mode.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the notification manager may be arranged and configured to determine the notification mode for the device based also on a frequency of the communications. The notification manager may be arranged and configured to determine the notification mode for the device based also on a period of time between a change in the communication mode. The notification manager may be arranged and configured to change the notification mode from a non audible notification mode and provide an audible notification using an audible notification mode. The notification manager may be arranged and configured to determine the notification mode based also on an importance group of the sender. The notification manager may be further arranged and configured to increase a frequency of the notification on the device using the determined notification mode.

The apparatus may further include an input interface that is operably coupled to the processor and that is arranged and configured to allow a user of the device to configure the notification modes.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes systems and techniques that may be used to alert a user of a mobile device about an event such as about the presence of a recently received communication e.g. an email social network posting voice mail text message or telephone call received from a sender using multiple different modes of communication. The mobile device may include multiple different notification modes which may be used to alert the user of the mobile device of an incoming communication. The notification modes may include audible e.g. beeps rings musical snippets or other noises and non audible e.g. vibrate or blinking light modes. The notification mode is selected based on an identity of a single sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes. In this manner the device is configured to provide different types of notifications depending on who is contacting the device and a perceived urgency of the communications. For example a change in communication modes by the single sender may be an indication of urgency of the incoming communications. A notification mode can include a number of different notification cues e.g. rings vibrations lights images or other indications that a communication is being received by the device.

Intelligent notifications refers to the selection of the notification mode based on an identity of a single sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes and the providing of the notification on the device using the selected notification mode. The selection of the notification mode also may be based on a frequency of the communications a period of time between a change in communication modes an importance group of the sender or other criteria. Intelligent notifications includes recognizing communications from a same sender who is using at least two different communication modes to send the communications. Intelligent notifications may include for example a change in the notification cue e.g. from non audible to audible from one audible type to a different audible type from one non audible type to a different non audible type etc. a change in the frequency of the notification cues a change in the volume of the notification cue e.g. an increase in the loudness of the notification cue multiple simultaneous notification cues or multiple successive notification cues.

In some implementations the severity or intensity of a notification cue increases as consecutive non responded to communications are received from a single sender. For instance if the sender is the user s mother and she first sends one or more instant messages the device may vibrate. If the same sender next calls the device may change the notification mode from vibrate to a loud ring. If the device receives further calls from the same sender the device may change the frequency of the notifications and or may change the ring from a loud ring to a very loud chirping ring. In this manner the perceived urgency is based on the change of the communication mode from the instant messages to the calls and the identity of the sender in this case the user s mother. This alerts the user that the communication is perceived to be important and that the user should respond to the communications. In this manner the device dynamically escalates the notifications to the user thus the escalating notifications are one type of intelligent notification.

In one exemplary implementation a user of a device may determine various aspects related to intelligent notifications including for example who intelligent notifications should be applied to and the particular notification modes to use. As discussed in more detail with respect to the below descriptions of the example illustrations the user may designate specific contacts to trigger intelligent notifications either on a group level or on an individual contact level. The user also may designate the specific notification modes or cues to be applied. For instance intelligent notifications may apply to any designated sender who sends a communication to the user s device using at least two different communication modes.

Referring to a schematic representation of an exemplary device is illustrated. The device may include any type of computing device including for example a mobile computing device a mobile phone a laptop a tablet device a game device a music player a personal digital assistant a smart phone or any combination of these devices. The device may be configured to send and receive multiple different types of communications such as for example text messages instant messages chat messages telephone calls video messages messages posted as part of a social networking application as well as other types of communications.

The device may be configured to identify the sender of the communications and the type of communication mode used by the sender. The device also may be configured to identify when a same sender sends multiple communications using at least two different communication modes. For example the device may use an identifier in the incoming communications to identify the sender of the communications. The communications may include an e mail address a telephone number a user identifier ID an alias a name a user name or other identifier. Various identifiers can be associated with the particular sender such as in the device contacts or in applications such as social networking applications. The identifier that is received with the communication may be mapped to one of the sender s identifiers such as in the device contacts on in another application such as in a social networking application.

The device may be configured to track a number of incoming communications from the identified senders and to track to the type of communication mode used by the sender. For example the device may track this information in a table and use the information to determine when a single sender has sent multiple communications using different communication modes.

The device may include a user interface as part of a display . The user interface on the display may be configured to enable a user of the device to set notification modes for select contacts. The notification modes provide different types of alerts to notify a user of the device of an incoming and or a received communication. In one exemplary implementation intelligent notifications may be used to notify the user of incoming and or received communications from a designated sender when the sender uses at least two different communication modes to contact the user. Intelligent notifications may be alerts that change from one notification type to a different notification type based on a change in the communication mode from a designated sender.

The user of the device may add contacts to the Inner Circle window in different ways. For instance the user may type contacts directly into the Inner Circle window drag and drop contacts from a listing into the Inner Circle window or designate the contacts as Inner Circle group members in another user interface such as directly from a contacts listing or directly from a message or other listing in which the name of the contact appears. The Inner Circle window may provide a convenient display window for the user to see this group of designated contacts in a single view. The user also may remove contacts from the Inner Circle window . Removing a contact from the Inner Circle window may not remove them from an overall contact directory but simply remove them from being designated as a member of the Inner Circle.

In one implementation the user of the device may activate the intelligent notifications or deactivate the intelligent notifications for the entire group of members listed in the Inner Circle window . For instance the Intelligent Notification interface may be used to either turn on or turn off the notifications using radio buttons. When the On radio button is selected the intelligent notifications are turned on for all of the contacts listed in the corresponding intelligent notifications group here shown as the Inner Circle window . When the Off radio button is selected the intelligent notifications are turned off for all of the contacts listed in the Inner Circle window . The intelligent notifications and various examples of intelligent notifications are discussed in more detail below with respect to .

In this manner the user of the device may decide who is part of the intelligent notifications group and when to apply intelligent notifications to incoming communications. For contacts who are not members of the Inner Circle window default notifications may apply to incoming communications from those contacts. For example if the device is set to vibrate mode then incoming messages from contacts who are not designated as part of the Inner Circle will cause the device to vibrate regardless of how many communications are received from a single sender. The notification may not change for those non designated contacts even if the communications increase in frequency or change communication modes. Subsequent incoming communications will still cause the device to vibrate.

With intelligent notifications turned on the intelligent notifications may override the default notification mode. For example if the device is set to vibrate mode then incoming messages from contacts who are designated as part of the Inner Circle may vibrate with the first incoming communication but then change notification modes from vibrate to an audible notification mode if a subsequent communication comes from the same contact using a different communication mode. In this manner the user is alerted that someone from the Inner Circle is attempting to contact him and has attempted at least once using one communications mode and is now attempting using another communications mode. The user of the device is alerted that it is a member of the Inner Circle sending the communications because the notification mode changed from vibrate which had been set as a default notification mode to an audible notification mode.

In one exemplary implementation the device may present the user with an option to add someone to the Inner Circle. The device may use one or more different criteria to determine whether or not to present the user with the option to add someone to the Inner Circle. For example the criteria may include the frequency of communications from a sender a change in communications modes by the sender within a given period of time e.g. from email message to text message to phone call within a given period of time and other criteria. When the criteria has been met for a particular sender the device may display a message to the user which gives the user the option to add the particular sender to the Inner Circle. When presented with the option the user may either add or decline to add the particular sender to the Inner Circle.

In another exemplary implementation the user of the device may turn the intelligent notifications on and off on an individual contact basis. Referring to a schematic representation of the exemplary device is illustrated. In this example the display may illustrate a contacts interface . The contacts interface may include a listing of the user s contacts. While the contacts interface lists a contact name and intelligent notification status the contacts interface may include other contact information e.g. address email addresses phone numbers etc. which is not shown in this illustration. The contacts interface may be used to turn the intelligent notifications on and off separately for each contact. Each contact may have a means for turning the intelligent notifications on and off. In this example radio buttons and may be used to turn the intelligent notifications on and off for each individual contact.

For instance in the example of the intelligent notifications are turned on for the contacts listed as Dad Mom and Steve. The intelligent notifications are turned off for the contact listed as Tom. In this manner if Dad Mom or Steve send communications to the user then intelligent notifications will be used to alert the user of the incoming communication. For instance a first communication from Dad for whom the intelligent notifications is turned on using a first communications mode may result in a vibration alert to the user. A second and subsequent communication from Dad using a second communications mode may result in a change of notification modes from a vibration alert to an audible alert. In contrast all communications from Tom for whom intelligent notifications are turned off may provide a same alert to the user even if the communication mode changes or the frequency of the communications increases. Whereas communications from Dad Mom and Steve may result in an escalation of alerts to the user communications from Tom may not result in any escalation of alerts.

In one exemplary implementation the device may present the user with an option to turn on the Intelligent Notification for a particular person. The device may use one or more different criteria to determine whether or not to present the user with the option to turn on the Intelligent Notification for the particular person. The criteria may include the frequency of communications from a sender a change in communications modes by the sender within a given period of time e.g. from email message to text message to phone call within a given period of time and other criteria.

For example if the communications are received within a duration of time that is under a predetermined threshold which may be set by the user then the option to turn on the intelligent notification is presented. If the communications are received within a duration of time that is above the predetermined threshold then the option to turn on intelligent notifications is not presented. When the criteria has been met for a particular sender the device may display a message to the user which gives the user the option to turn on the Intelligent Notification for the particular sender. When presented with the option the user may either turn on or decline to turn on the Intelligent Notification for the particular user.

In one exemplary implementation the user of the device may select the notification modes. An intelligent notification includes a change in notification mode from one notification type to a different notification type based on an identity of the sender and a change in communication modes by the same sender. The device may be configurable to allow the user to set the progression of notification modes or types.

Referring to the device may include a display with an intelligent notification mode interface . In one exemplary implementation the intelligent notification mode interface may provide a series of menus e.g. drop down menus with selections of different notification types from which the user may choose. The notifications may be arranged in an order of progression of notifications. For instance the first notification to the user will be the notification type selected in the top box. The second notification to the user will be the notification type selected in the next box on the list. The third notification to the user will be the notification type selected in the third box on the list. While this example illustrates three boxes the interface may include additional selections. Also while this example illustrates the use of drop down menus in the interface other types of interfaces that allow the user to select the type of notification mode and the order of the notification may be used.

In the example of the user has selected the first notification mode to be three short vibrations. The user has selected the second notification mode to be a normal loudness ring tone. The user has selected the third notification mode to be an escalating loudness ring tone. While not illustrated here the exact ring tone to be used also may be selected by the user whether in this interface or in a different interface. In this manner the device is configured to enable the user to customize the notification modes in various different aspects.

The notification modes follow the progression of notifications listed in another exemplary implementation the type and progression of notification modes may be pre selected or include default settings. For instance the device may be pre set with a default of progression of notification modes. It is to be understood that is merely one example of an interface that allows the user to customize the notification modes. While the notification modes may be applied universally to the contacts designated for intelligent notifications other techniques may be used to apply the notification modes on an individual contact basis for those contact designated for intelligent notifications.

Other notification modes are available. Referring to the interface of is illustrated as a menu. In one exemplary implementation the menu may be a drop down menu to enable a user to select one of multiple notification modes. Interfaces other than a drop down menu are possible. In this example the potential notification modes include vibrate short vibrate short a ring at soft volume a ring at normal volume a ring at loud volume a ring at escalating volume and a custom ring tone. The listed notification modes are merely examples and other non listed notification modes may be included. The notification modes may be audible non audible or a combination of audible and non audible.

Referring to a schematic diagram of the device is illustrated. The schematic diagram illustrates components to be used for intelligent notifications. In this example the device is a mobile device having a touch screen display . The device may also include other components to interface with the device including a trackball not shown and a keyboard e.g. a slide out keyboard not shown .

A number of components are shown schematically inside the device to indicate components in the device which may be associated with notification functionality for the device . One or more of the components may be implemented as part of a programmable microprocessor on the device though the particular components are shown separately in this example for clarity of explanation.

The device includes a display manager to control various elements to be shown to a user on the display while an input manager manages inputs received from the touch screen or other mechanisms such as a trackball or keyboard. Various applications may run on the device and may provide data for graphics to be displayed through the display manager .

Various communications may be received over a network such as a wireless communications network connected to the internet or a cellular network via a wireless interface . Information received from the network such as from one or more remote servers may be provided to the applications and information may be passed from the applications back to the network via the wireless interface . Information may also be passed after processing to a notification manager which may be configured to manage notifications and notification modes regarding incoming communications.

For example the notifications manager may be configured to determine a notification mode on the device based on an identity of the sender and the communication mode for the incoming communication. The notification manager may be configured to determine the notification mode based on a change in communication modes from one communication mode to another communication mode. The notification manager may provide an alert or a notification to the device based on the determined notification mode. For instance if the sender of the communication is identified as a person in the Inner Circle or as a person having intelligent notifications turned on the notification manager may determine one type of notification to provide to the device . The notification manager may change the notification mode based upon a new incoming communication from the same sender using a different communication mode. The change in communication mode from the same sender may escalate the importance of the incoming communication and cause the notification mode to be changed in accordance with the progression of intelligent notifications.

Also the notification manager may determine the notification mode based on a change in the communication modes and a period of time between the change in communication modes. For example if the sender first sends a text message and within a short amount of time calls on the phone then the notification mode may change. If on the other hand the sender first sends a text message and then after a long period of time the sender calls on the phone then the notification mode may not change and may not follow the intelligent notification progression.

The notification manager may follow one or more rules stored in a rule table that may define when to follow the intelligent notifications. The rules may be default rules or may be customizable at least in some part by the user. For example the rules may take into account the communications modes being used for the received communications the change from one communication mode to another communication mode the frequency of the communications from the same sender and the period of time between communications. In one exemplary implementation the rules may include a hierarchy of communication modes listed in order from least important to most important. A change in communication modes by the same sender from a communication mode of lower importance to a communication mode of higher importance may trigger the notification manager to change the notification mode.

In one exemplary implementation the hierarchy of communication modes may include a listing in order of importance in terms of escalating a notification mode. For instance an email message may be the lowest importance followed by a message posted as part of a social networking application. An instant message and a text message may be next in the order of importance and a phone call may be of the highest importance. These are merely examples and other communication modes may be included in the list and the list may be arranged in a different order.

In addition various forms of storage including volatile storage and persistent storage may be provided on the device . The storage may store for example application programs and other information for operating applications on the device . The storage also may store notification mode settings including the intelligent notification settings including default and or user customized settings. The storage also may store tables and information related to incoming messages to track the sender of the message the communication mode the frequency of the communications and the time intervals between communications. The storage also may store a table of rules associated with when to trigger the intelligent notifications.

Referring to an exemplary process for notifying a user of a device of incoming communications is illustrated. Process includes receiving at a device at least two communications from a sender of the communications using at least two different communication modes . For example as discussed above the device may be configured to receiving incoming communications via the wireless interface including multiple communications from a same sender using different communication modes.

In some implementations the two communications are linked to a single sender by determining that the communications have an identifier that identifies a particular sender. For example the communication can include an associated e mail address telephone number user name or other identifier. Various identifiers can be associated with the particular sender such as in the device contacts. The identifier that is received with the communication is then mapped to one of the sender s identifiers.

Process also includes determining a notification mode for the device based on an identity of the sender and at least two of the communication modes being different from one another . For example the notification manager may be configured to use an identity of the sender and a change from one communication mode to another communication mode to determine the notification mode on the device. The notification manager may query or use the information stored in the storage including for example the list of communication modes any rules table regarding notification modes and any other tables related to intelligent notifications.

Process also includes providing a notification on the device using the determined notification mode . For example the notification manager may be configured to provide a notification or alert on the device using the determined notification mode. Depending on the type of alert the device may emit an audible alert from one or more speakers or cause a non audible to vibrate the device for example.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the features described here is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to display notifications regarding events on the device and to permit a user to conveniently pull down detail about the events relating to the notifications into an extended view of the events.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for responding to notification of alerts and responding to messages and the like and also to a touch screen . The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 5GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 5.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 5 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bidirectional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that generate notifications about alerts such as newly arriving messages on the device.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for notifications and interactions with messages and other events using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or AudioNideo Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding MC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications such as in the manners discussed in the embodiments above a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a messaging application . The messaging application may receive and send messages by a number of mechanisms such as e mail voice mail and text message and may interaction with the notification manager to alert a user when new messages arrive.

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manager processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example much of this document has been described with respect to television advertisements but other forms of future viewership based advertisements may also be addressed such as radio advertisements and on line video advertisements.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

