---

title: Method and apparatus or dry granulation
abstract: The invention provides, inter alia, a method for producing granules from a powder, characterized in that compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and/or small granules from the other granules by entraining the fine particles and/or small granules in a gas stream. Also provided are apparatus for use in the process and tablets formed by compression of the resultant granules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08951562&OS=08951562&RS=08951562
owner: Atacama Labs Oy
number: 08951562
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20101108
---
This application is a continuation of PCT International Application Number PCT EP2009 055627 filed on May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application No. 20080351 filed on May 9 2008 PCT International Application No. PCT EP2009 055628 filed on May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application No. 20080352 filed on May 9 2008 PCT International Application Number PCT EP2009 055629 filed on May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application No. 20080353 filed on May 9 2008 PCT International Application Number PCT EP2009 055630 filed on May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application No. 20080346 filed on May 9 2008 and PCT International Application Number PCT EP2009 055631 filed on May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application No. 20080355 filed on May 9 2008 . This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 580 558 filed Oct. 16 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 463 186 filed May 8 2009 which claims priority on Finnish Application Nos. 20080347 filed May 9 2008 20080348 filed May 9 2008 20080349 filed May 9 2008 20080350 filed May 9 2008 20080354 filed May 9 2008 20080356 filed May 9 2008 and 20080357 filed May 12 2008 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 979 530 filed Nov. 5 2007 which claims priority on Finnish application nos. 20060990 filed Nov. 10 2006 20061146 filed Dec. 21 2006 and 20070521 filed Jul. 2 2007 . The entire contents of all of the above applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety into the present application.

Tablets are one of the most frequently employed delivery forms for most medicinal preparations. This situation can be explained by the fact that this dosage form allows for accurate dosage of the active component of the medicinal formulation. Furthermore handling and packaging are easier and shelf life and stability of these preparations are generally better than those of other formulations.

These same arguments also explain the reason why tablets are often used as media for other applications such as food including confectionery products aromas or sweeteners detergents dyes or phytosanitary products.

A solid bulk of granulate mass which is necessary for manufacturing tablets can be manufactured using two main processes wet granulation or dry granulation. Tablets may also be manufactured using direct compression. Direct compression relates to the tableting process itself rather than preparation of the starting material.

In wet granulation components are typically mixed and granulated using a wet binder. The wet granulates are then sieved dried and optionally ground prior to compressing into tablets. Wet granulation is used extensively in the pharmaceutical industry although it has proven to be a difficult method mainly because the liquids needed in the granule and tablet manufacturing process often have an adverse effect on the characteristics of the active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs and or on the end product such as a tablet.

Dry granulation is usually described as a method of controlled crushing of precompacted powders densified by either slugging or passing the material between two counter rotating rolls. More specifically powdered components that may contain very fine particles are typically mixed prior to being compacted to yield hard slugs which are then ground and sieved before the addition of other ingredients and final compression to form tablets. Because substantially no liquids are used in the dry granulation process the issues related to wet granulation are avoided. Although dry granulation would in many cases appear to be the best way to produce products such as tablets containing APIs it has been relatively little used because of the challenges in producing the desired kind of granules as well as managing the granulated material in the manufacturing process. Known dry granulation methods as well as the known issues related to them are well described in scientific articles such as the review article Roll compaction dry granulation pharmaceutical applications written by Peter Kleinebudde and published in European Journal of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics 58 2004 at pages 317 326.

Direct compression is generally considered to be the simplest and the most economical process for producing tablets. However it may only be applied to materials that do not need to be granulated before tableting. Direct compression requires only two principal steps i.e. the mixing of all the ingredients and the compression of this mixture. However direct compression is applicable to only a relatively small number of substances as the ingredients of the tablets often need to be processed by some granulation technique to make them compressible and or for improving their homogeneity and flow ability.

A component of a tablet is usually described as being either an excipient or an active ingredient. Active ingredients are normally those that trigger a pharmaceutical chemical or nutritive effect and they are present in the tablet only in the amount necessary to provide the desired effect. Excipients are inert ingredients that are included to facilitate the preparation of the dosage forms or to adapt the release characteristics of the active ingredients or for other purposes ancillary to those of the active ingredients.

Excipients can be characterized according to their function in the formulation as for instance lubricants glidants fillers or diluents disintegrants binders flavors sweeteners and dyes.

Lubricants are intended to improve the ejection of the compressed tablet from the die of the tablet making equipment and to prevent sticking in the punches.

Glidants are added to improve the powder flow. They are typically used to help the component mixture to fill the die evenly and uniformly prior to compression.

Fillers are inert ingredients sometimes used as bulking agents in order to decrease the concentration of the active ingredient in the final formulation. Binders in many cases also function as fillers.

Disintegrants may be added to formulations in order to help the tablets disintegrate when they are placed in a liquid environment and so release the active ingredient. The disintegration properties usually are based upon the ability of the disintegrant to swell in the presence of a liquid such as water or gastric juice. This swelling disrupts the continuity of the tablet structure and thus allows the different components to enter into solution or into suspension

Binders are used to hold together the structure of the tablets. They have the ability to bind together the other ingredients after sufficient compression forces have been applied and they contribute to the integrity of the tablets.

Finding the proper excipients for particular APIs and determining the proper manufacturing process for the combination of excipients and APIs can be a time consuming job that may lengthen the design process of a pharmaceutical product such as a tablet significantly even by years.

Both the dry and wet granulation methods of the prior art may produce solid bridges between particles within granules that may be undesirable for example in that they lead to unsatisfactory subsequent tablet characteristics. The solid bridges may be caused by partial melting hardening binders or crystallization of dissolved substances. Partial melting may for example occur when high compaction force is used in dry granulation methods. When the pressure in the compaction process is released crystallization of particles may take place and bind the particles together. Introduction of hardening binders is common in pharmaceutical wet granulations when a binder is included in the granulating solvent. The solvent forms liquid bridges and the binder will harden or crystallize on drying to form solid bridges between the particles. Examples of binders which can function in this way are polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose derivatives e.g. carboxymethylcellulose and pregelatinized starch. Substances e.g. lactose which can dissolve during a wet granulation process may subsequently crystallize on drying acting as a hardening binder.

Electrostatic forces may also be important in causing powder cohesion and the initial formation of agglomerates e.g. during mixing. In general they do not contribute significantly to the final strength of the granule. Van der Waals forces however may be about four orders of magnitude greater than electrostatic forces and can contribute significantly to the strength of granules e.g. those produced by dry granulation. The magnitude of these forces increases as the distance between particle surfaces decreases.

In addition to finding a practical manufacturing process for a pharmaceutical product validation of the manufacturing process is essential. Validation means that the process must be able to reliably produce a consistently acceptable and predictable outcome each time the process is used. Wet granulation methods are quite challenging to manage in this respect. The wet granulation process is often quite vulnerable to small changes in manufacturing conditions. For example variations in the moisture content of starch in the manufacturing process after drying may produce a tablet that is too hygroscopic or which has a reduced shelf life. When a pharmaceutical product is being developed in laboratory conditions the conditions can be controlled relatively easily. However the conditions available in mass production environments are typically less accurately controllable thus making validation of the manufacturing process a difficult and time consuming task. The same can be said about direct compression methods where the quality of the final product depends on the physical properties of the API and excipients. A small change in such properties can result for example in segregation and flow ability problems.

Because of the manufacturing and process validation issues related to wet granulation and direct compression methods it is desirable particularly in the pharmaceutical industry to use dry granulation techniques whenever possible. However the dry granulation methods known in the prior art produce granules that are seldom usable in a tablet manufacturing process. Conflicting process design parameters often lead to compromises where some qualities of the resulting granule product may be good but other desirable qualities are lacking or absent. For example the flow characteristics of the granules may be insufficient the non homogeneity of the granules may cause segregation in the manufacturing process or capping in tablets or some of the granules may exhibit excessive hardness all of which can make the tableting process very difficult slow and sometimes impossible. Furthermore the bulk granules may be difficult to compress into tablets. Alternatively or additionally the disintegration characteristics of the resulting tablets may be sub optimal. Such problems commonly relate to the non homogeneity and granule structure of the granulate mass produced by the compactor. For instance the mass may have too high a percentage of fine particles or some granules produced by the compactor may be too dense for effective tableting.

It is also well known in the art that in order to get uniform tablets the bulk to be tableted should be homogeneous and should have good flow characteristics.

In prior art dry granulation processes such as roll compaction the resulting bulk is not generally homogeneously flowing for example because of the presence of relatively large 1 3 mm and dense granules together with very small e.g. 1 30 m particles. This can cause segregation as the large typically dense and or hard granules of the prior art flow in a different way to the fine particles when the granulate mass is conveyed in the manufacturing process e.g. during tableting. Because of the segregation it is often difficult to ensure production of acceptable tablets. For this reason in the art there are some known devices in which the small particles and sometimes also the biggest particles are separated from the rest of the granules with the help of a fractionating device such as a set of vibrating screen s . This process is generally complicated and noisy and the result is a relatively homogeneously flowing bulk where the granules are hard and difficult to compress into tablets. Furthermore the process of separating small particles from granules becomes very difficult if the material is sticky and the screen size is not big enough. Generally in this process the apertures of the screen must have a minimum dimension of at least 500 m.

Another problem which occurs in dry granulation methods of the prior art is the difficulty of preparing in the development stage a pilot bulk which is representative of the production bulk. Thus the compaction forces and the other compaction parameters used at the laboratory scale can be very different from those used at the production scale. As a result the properties e.g. flow ability of the production bulk can be very different from that which has been prepared in a pilot facility. One sieving method applicable in laboratory scale is air sieving. One conventional air sieve involves passing a powder through a mesh of defined size in order to exclude particles below the specified size the desired granules are retained above the mesh and the rejected particles pass below . Air is passed through the mesh to carry away the fine particles. The problem with the air sieves of the prior art is that their capacity is not sufficient for industrial production of granulate mass. Furthermore the air sieves that rely on mesh size in the separation of rejected material often exclude desirable small granules from the acceptable granulate mass when separating out the fine particles from the mass. Yet further fragile granules may break in the sieving process where undersize particles are sucked through the apertures of the sieve.

Patent application WO 99 11261 discloses dry granulated granules that may comprise API only. In the method disclosed in the application an air sieve known in the prior art is used for separating fine particles particles and granules smaller than 150 or 125 m from granules comprising up to 100 of API. The sieving utilizes a sieve whose mesh size is about the maximum size of rejectable particles e.g. 150 m. It seems that the granules of the disclosure have been created using relatively high compaction forces since the proportion of fine particles smaller than 125 m after compaction is at most around 26 percent see table 1 . The method results following sieving in a flowing homogeneous granulate mass that would be expected to comprise generally hard granules and that substantially is lacking granules and particles smaller than 150 or 125 m.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 161 516 teaches a composition for treating airway disease using soft tablets or granules for inhalation administration. The method of the patent is suitable for producing granules that are soft enough to break apart in an airstream.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 752 939 teaches a method and an apparatus for predicting the suitability of a substance for dry granulation by roller compaction using small sample sizes.

U.K. Patent 1 558 153 discloses a method for producing organic dye material from finely divided particles by compressing said finely divided particles to produce a coherent mass of material comminuting said coherent mass of material and recovering granular material in the particle size range of 100 1000 microns from said comminuted material. The finest particles are removed by air flow.

We have now found an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation. The method may be applicable to a large variety of solid powder substances e.g. APIs and excipients as well as non pharmaceutical products e.g. those used in the chemical and food industries.

According to the invention we provide a method for producing granules from a powder wherein a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating fine particles and or small granules from the other granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream.

The powder e.g. the APIs and or excipients usable in pharmaceutical industry to be used in the granulation process of the invention generally comprises fine particles. Further the powder may typically have a mean particle size of less than 100 50 or 20 m. The fine particles in the powder may typically have a minimum particle size of 2 5 or 10 m and maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m. The inventors believe that the inventive ideas of the method disclosed herein may be applicable to form granules also from powder whose minimum particle size is smaller than the typical minimum size mentioned above e.g. 0.001 0.01 or 1 m.

The mean particle size may be measured for example using a set of sieves. In case of very fine powders also microscopy may be used for analyzing the particle sizes. The flowability of such powders is generally insufficient for e.g. tableting purposes. An exemplary method for determining sufficient flowability of a mass is disclosed in the detailed description of .

Hence fine particles or fines are individual particles typically having a mean particle size of less than 100 50 or 20 m and a maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m.

When several fine particles e.g. 3 5 10 or more agglomerate to form granules of maximum size of 150 100 or 75 m they are referred to as small granules. Granules larger than the maximum size are referred to as acceptable granules . Those granules that remain after fine particles and or small granules have been entrained by the gas stream are called accepted granules .

The applied compaction force may produce e.g. a compacted ribbon or slug typically a ribbon. In some embodiments the thickness of the ribbon or slug may be e.g. at least 1.5 2 or 3 times the mean diameter of accepted granules. In some embodiments the thickness of the ribbon may be at least 1 1.5 2 or 3 millimeters. The ribbon or slug may then be comminuted into granules. The thickness of the ribbon or slug may have an effect on the properties of the granules produced by the method of the present invention.

The ribbon may comprise strongly compacted and weakly compacted powder. In some embodiments separate compacting means may be used for producing strongly compacted and weakly compacted powder.

The minimum optimal and maximum compaction force applicable to the powder may be dependent on the powder material.

The minimum compaction force may be adjusted to a level high enough to prevent degradation of granule properties e.g. flowability during storage.

Suitably the compaction force may be provided using a roller compactor. Alternatively it may be provided using a slugging device. Other compaction methods will be known to a skilled person. The roller compactor or slugging device may be accompanied by an optional flake crushing screen or other device e.g. oscillating or rotating mill suitable for producing granules from the compacted material. The optional step of employing a flake crushing screen or other device will if necessary prepare the material for separation of fine particles and or small granules from other granules.

Thus typically the compaction force is applied to the powder by a process comprising use of a roller compactor to generate a ribbon of compacted powder which is broken up to produce granules e.g. by means of a flake crusher. The flake crusher or similar device e.g. a granulator or a milling device may permit the upper size of granules to be controlled e.g. by passing them through a screen. The aperture size of the flake crushing screen may be e.g. 0.5 mm 1.0 mm or 1.2 mm.

The compaction force may be adjusted to be at minimum such that at least one five ten or fifteen percent of the powder substance becomes acceptable granules during compaction and or fractionating steps while the rest of the material remains fine particles and or small granules.

If the compaction force used is too low inventors have observed that the granules accepted by the process may be too fragile for e.g. tableting purposes. Such granules may also be too large e.g. larger than 3 mm. Fragile granules may not flow well enough or be strong enough to be handled e.g. in a tableting process. Too fragile granules may also lose at least some of their flowability over time.

The maximum compaction force may be adjusted so that 75 percent or less 70 percent or less 65 percent or less 50 percent or less or 40 percent or less of the powder is compacted into acceptable granules and the rest remains as fine particles and or small granules. The maximum compaction force is typically up to 500 250 or 150 of a minimum compaction force.

For example the mean particle size of the powder may be less than Y m and the compaction force may be sufficiently low that 75 or less by weight of the powder is compacted into acceptable granules having particle size larger than 1.5 Y m and at least 150 m and the rest remains as fine particles and or small granules. For instance the mean particle size of the powder may be between 1 and 100 m and the compaction force is sufficiently low that 75 or less by weight of the powder is compacted into acceptable granules having particle size larger than 150 m and or a mean size of 100 m or greater and the rest remains as fine particles and or small granules.

The mean particle size may be determined e.g. by dividing the bulk into a plurality of fractions using a set of sieves and weighing each of the fractions. Such measuring methods are well known to a person skilled in the art.

When the compaction force is applied by a roller compactor the compaction force may be such that the ribbon produced by the roller compactor has a tensile strength of around 40 250N i.e. at least 40N 50N or 60N and less than 250N 200N or 150N when the thickness of the ribbon is about 4 mm. The area of the measured ribbon may be e.g. 3 cm 3 cm. The tensile strength of the ribbon may be measured e.g. using device of make MECMESIN Mecmesin Limited West Sussex UK and model BFG200N.

The compaction force may also be such that the bulk volume of the powder is reduced by around 7 40 i.e. at least 7 10 or 13 and less than 40 35 or 30 following compaction.

The maximum and minimum compaction forces will of course depend on the particular compactor and powder used. Thus for example the minimum compaction force may be adjusted so that it is the minimum possible compaction force 15 kN 20 kN or 30 kN in a Hosokawa Osaka Japan Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P roller compactor. The maximum compaction force may also be adjusted so that it is 80 kN or less 70 kN or less 60 kN or less or 45 kN or less in a Hosokawa Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P roller compactor.

Typically a suitable compaction force is 60 kN or less e.g. 45 kN or less. Typically a suitable compaction force is 12 kN or more e.g. 16 kN or more in a Hosokawa Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P compactor or equivalent.

The maximum compaction force may also be adjusted so that substantially no solid bridges are formed in the granules of the resulting mass e.g. due to heating of the mass. Some compactors known in the art provide means for cooling the compacted material to alleviate the heating issues introduced by use of high compaction forces. With the method and system of the present invention this precaution is unnecessary.

The compaction force may be adjusted using a method appropriate for the compactor employed for example by control of the rate of feed into the compactor.

The above mentioned preferred compaction forces are low and as explained elsewhere herein granulate mass compacted using such low forces and processed according to the invention appears to retain good properties of compressibility into tablets. This remark appears to be especially true when the granulate mass comprises a binder.

The gas stream may be provided by any suitable means e.g. a generator of negative pressure i.e. a vacuum pump such as a suction fan. The gas stream e.g. air may be directed through a fractionating chamber. The gas stream separates at least some fine particles and or small granules from the mass comprising acceptable granules small granules and fine particles. The separated fine particles and or small granules entrained in the gas stream may be transferred from the fractionating chamber to a separating device e.g. a cyclone where the carrier gas is separated from the fine particles and or small granules. The fine particles and or small granules may then be returned to the system for immediate re processing i.e. they are re circulated for compaction or they may be placed into a container for later re processing.

For suitable protection of the system and environment suitably the gas inlet of the vacuum pump is provided with a receiver filter to trap any particles that may pass through the pump. Most suitably the gas inlet of the vacuum pump is provided with a second filter safety filter in series with the receiver filter.

Thus conveniently fine particles and or small granules are separated from the acceptable granules by means of an apparatus comprising fractionating means. Desirably the fractionating means comprises a fractionating chamber.

As discussed in greater detail in the examples the largest acceptable granules exiting from the fractionating chamber are usually larger in size than the largest granules entering the fractionating chamber. The inventors believe that a process whereby small granules and or fine particles agglomerate with larger granules takes place during the conveyance of the material through the fractionating chamber.

Suitably the direction of the flow of the gas stream has a component which is contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass in general and accepted granules especially. Typically the direction of the flow of the gas stream is substantially contrary to e.g. around 150 180 to and preferably contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass.

The gas may for example be air suitably dry air . In some embodiments the gas may contain a reduced proportion of oxygen. In some embodiments the gas may be e.g. nitrogen.

The carrier gas may suitably be re circulated in the process. This is especially beneficial for economic reasons when the carrier gas is not air.

The fractionating means may be static i.e. it comprises no moving parts. Alternatively the fractionating means may be dynamic i.e. the fractionating means comprises some moving parts.

In an method according to the invention fine particles and or small granules may be separated and removed from the granules by means of an apparatus comprising two or more e.g. two fractionating means in series. In some embodiments the arrangement may comprise a plurality of static and or dynamic fractionating means that may be arranged in parallel or in series. In one embodiment a dynamic fractionating means may be connected in series to a static fractionating means.

The fractionating means may comprise means to guide a gas stream into the fractionating means means to put the compacted mass into motion and means to guide removed fine particles and or small granules entrained in the gas stream from the fractionating means e.g. for re processing. The compacted mass may be put into motion simply by the effect of gravitation and or by mechanical means. Advantageously the fractionating means does not require passage of the compacted mass through any sieve such as a mesh screen . Sieves have a tendency to break up lightly compacted granules therefore avoidance of use of a sieve permits lightly compacted granules with their favorable properties to be preserved e.g. for tableting. Moreover sieves are easily clogged which disrupts the process especially when run in continuous operation. Additionally the eye size of a sieve may vary during the period of operation due to transient clogging.

A number of fractionating means are known which may be suitable for use in performance of the invention. The fractionating means may for example comprise a device for example a moving device e.g. a rotating device such as a cylinder or cone along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in the gas stream. Movement of the compacted mass may be by gravitational means or it may be facilitated by mechanical means or by features of the device e.g. cylinder . The rotating device may comprise at least one structure for guiding the compacted mass inside the rotating device such as by provision of a spiral structure. The spiral structure may be formed of channels or baffles which guide the movement of the compacted mass. A component of gravitational assistance or resistance may be provided by tilting the axis of the rotating device. Suitably the compacted mass moves along a helical path within the device. This is advantageous since it increases the path length of the compacted mass and thereby the residence time in the device and this is expected to increase the efficiency of fractionation. Suitably the length of the helical path is at least twice the linear length of travel along the axis of the device e.g. at least 2 3 or 5 times. Suitably there is also at least some movement of the compacted mass relative to the device itself which may thereby create some friction between the mass and the wall of the device. The friction may contribute to the triboelectrification phenomenon that may occur in the fractionating device.

The fractionating means may contain one or more apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained. In one specific embodiment of the invention the gas stream enters the rotating device along its axis in the opposite sense to movement of the compacted mass and exits the rotating device through one or more apertures perforations in the side walls of the rotating device. One aperture is the minimum however two or more e.g. 4 8 12 or more may be suitable.

As noted above the fractionating means may comprise a device for example a moving device e.g. a rotating device to move the compacted mass in the fractionating means. The device may comprise one or more apertures through which the gas stream flows into and out of the device and through which the fine particles and or small granules are entrained. The apertures through which gas flows out of the device may be substantially larger than rejectable fine particles e.g. at least 50 100 or 150 of the average diameter of accepted granules. In absolute terms the apertures may for example have a minimum dimension of around 250 m 500 m or 750 m or more. This helps prevent the apertures from clogging even when relatively high volumes of fine particles of possibly sticky material need to be separated from the compacted mass. In this sense the device significantly differs from an air sieve of the prior art where the sieve mesh size must be of about the same size as the largest rejected particle. Instead of relying on the mesh size in the sieving the fractionating device of the invention relies on the gas stream s ability to entrain fine particles from the moving compacted mass. The determination of the size of acceptable granules may be achieved e.g. by balancing their gravitational force together with other forces e.g. mechanical and centrifugal forces against the force of the gas stream.

In another embodiment the fractionating means may comprise a cylindrical device having a first orifice at the top of the device for entry of material from the compactor a second orifice at the bottom of the device for exit of accepted granules as well as entry of carrier gas and a third orifice for exit of carrier gas located at or near the top of the device and above the first orifice. In use the compacted powder enters the device through the first orifice and passes through the device under the influence of gravitation and the carrier gas enters and exits the device through the second and third orifices respectively. The accepted granules leave the device through the second orifice. The rejected fine particles and or small granules are carried by the carrier gas through the third orifice. The third orifice is orientated above the first orifice so that no component of the compacted mass may leave the device through the third orifice without having been entrained contrary to the influence of gravitation i.e. the compacted mass does not just pass from the first orifice to the third orifice without residing in the device for any significant length of time . Suitably the first orifice is provided with valves e.g. flaps so that carrier gas does not exit through it.

In another embodiment the fractionating means may comprise a device having a frustoconical lower section and optionally a cylindrical upper section and having a first orifice at the top of the device for entry of material from the compactor a second orifice at the apex of the frustoconical section for exit of accepted granules as well as entry of carrier gas and a third orifice for exit of carrier gas orientated tangentially to the perimeter of the device and above the first orifice. In use the compacted powder enters the device through the first orifice and passes through the device under the influence of gravitation and the carrier gas enters and exits the device through the second and third orifices respectively causing a vortex effect to be created within the device. Such a device may be referred to as a vortex device. The accepted granules leave the device through the second orifice. The rejected fine particles and or small granules are carried by the carrier gas through the third orifice. The third orifice is orientated above the first orifice so that no component of the compacted mass may leave the device through the third orifice without having been entrained contrary to the influence of gravitation i.e. the compacted mass does not just pass from the first orifice to the third orifice without residing in the device for any significant length of time . In this embodiment the compacted mass or at least components of it follows a helical path through the device due to creation of the vortex. Suitably the length of the helical path is at least twice the linear length of travel along the axis of the device e.g. at least 2 3 or 5 times. There may also be friction between the mass moving in the vortex and the stationary wall of the device. The friction may contribute to the triboelectrification phenomenon possibly occurring in the fractionating device. Suitably the first orifice is provided with valves e.g. flaps so that carrier gas does not exit through it.

In some embodiments the compacted mass may flow during the fractionation e.g. against a wall of a rotating cylinder a conveyor belt or a vortex device and in particular against a conveyor belt. For example at least some granules of the compacted mass may be put into a motion e.g. by making the compacted mass flow in the fractionating device against gravitation e.g. at a suitable angle such as against an inclined conveyor belt which moves against gravitation. Because of the flow the movement of an individual acceptable granule of the mass may have a spinning component.

Hence according to this embodiment there is provided a fractionating device adapted to separate and remove fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream which comprises an enclosed chamber typically of square or rectangular cross section containing an inclined conveyor belt which moves against gravitation such that compacted mass entering the fractionating device is separated into an accepted fraction which flows with the force of gravitation against the movement of the conveyor belt and a rejected fraction of fine particles and or small granules which is entrained in the gas stream and flows against the force of gravitation with the movement of the conveyor belt.

Suitably the fractionating means is provided with means to prevent clogging or build up. For example it may be provided with a vibrating or ultrasound emitting means. Alternatively when the fractionating means contains apertures e.g. in the case of a rotating cylinder with one or more apertures said apertures may be unclogged by blowing pressurized gas e.g. air through or across the apertures.

Some of the fine particles and or small granules may be agglomerated to other granules in the fractionating means by means of the individual or combined influence of the carrier gas stream mechanical forces attractive forces and electrostatic forces for example. Thus the process may produce granules that are larger than what is produced by the flake crushing screen of the system. In some embodiments the degree of agglomeration of the compacted mass in the fractionating phase may be significant.

The movement of the mass in the gas stream may be achieved by applying for example a mechanical force gravitational force centrifugal force or a combination of these. In some embodiments a mechanically moving component in the fractionating means may not be needed at all to realize the benefits of the present invention. In some embodiments the acceptable granules fall in a gas stream e.g. by effect of gravitation force and unacceptable particles and granules are moved to at least partially opposite direction by the gas stream. Suitably however the compacted mass is moved in the gas stream by means including mechanical means.

Typically the average residence time of the compacted mass within the fractionating means is at least 1 second or 2 seconds perhaps even at least 5 seconds although the desired fractionating effect including any agglomerating effect may be achievable also in a time frame shorter than that. Residence time may be extended e.g. by providing a helical path.

It should also be noted that the rejected fraction of the mass may also contain e.g. at least 10 20 or 25 of acceptable granules that have thus also been entrained in the gas stream in the fractionating step of the process. By allowing some recycling of acceptable granules the overall apparatus may be made more efficient and easier to maintain as clogging of fractionating device may be more easily avoided. These rejected acceptable granules may be conveyed to the beginning of the granulating process along with the other rejected material for reprocessing. For efficiency we prefer that at maximum 30 45 60 or 75 percent of acceptable granules are re cycled with the fines. The inventors have not observed any detrimental effect on the granulate mass caused by recycling. This is attributable to the use of low compaction force.

According to a further feature of the invention we provide an apparatus comprising compacting means and means adapted to separate fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream e.g. air.

Thus an apparatus according to the invention may be characterized in that said fractionating means for example comprising a rotating device see e.g. in the drawings comprises at least one exit aperture see e.g. in the drawings through which said gas stream flows out of said means said aperture being large enough to allow a granule having acceptable properties e.g. flowability tabletability size especially size to flow out of said device.

The apparatus may further comprise a separating means e.g. a cyclone to separate the gas stream from the particles removed from the compacted mass.

A further specific aspect of the invention provides an apparatus for dry granulation characterized in that the apparatus comprises compacting means capable of producing compaction force which when applied to a powder produces a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and fractionating means adapted to separate and remove fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream. The apparatus may suitably comprise a roller compactor to generate a ribbon of compacted powder which is then broken up to produce granules. Said apparatus may be characterized in that said fractionating means comprises means to move said compacted mass. Said means to move said compacted mass may comprise means to move said compacted mass by gravitational or mechanical means. An apparatus according to the invention may for example be characterized in that said fractionating means comprises at least one structure see e.g. in the drawings for guiding said compacted mass inside said fractionating means.

An apparatus according to the invention may comprise means to provide the gas stream wherein the direction of the flow of the gas stream has a component which is contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass e.g. the direction of the flow of the gas stream is substantially contrary to that of the direction of flow of the compacted mass .

An apparatus according to the invention is typically provided with a fractionating means which comprises a device such as a rotating device e.g. a cylinder or cone especially a cylinder along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in said gas stream. Movement of the compacted mass along the axis of the rotating device may be facilitated by means of a spiral structure which guides the movement of the compacted mass. The fractionating means e.g. the rotating device may contain one or more apertures through which the fine particles and or small granules are entrained. When it is desired to produce granules of mean size x the apertures may have a minimum dimension of 0.5 or 1.0 or even 1.5 . In absolute terms the apertures may for example have a minimum dimension of 250 m 500 m or 750 m.

The apparatus according to the invention may also comprise process monitoring and or controlling means. For example the amount of material typically the weight of material being in circulation in various components of the apparatus may be monitored and or controlled by such means.

In order to keep the device in balance for continuous operation suitably the amount weight of powder being conveyed to the compaction means will be measured and controlled as will the amount weight of accepted granules being collected and optionally also the amount weight of compacted mass leaving the compactor prior to entering the fractionating device. Means of measurement and control include provision of scales to measure weight at various points in the system e.g. at the reservoir of powder the collector of accepted granules and optionally after the compactor and prior to the fractionating device .

In general terms it is desirable a to control the amount of material in the apparatus b to measure flowability of accepted granules c to measure output rate of accepted granules and or d to monitor progress of material in the fractionating means e.g. by means of provision of a window therein .

Suitably control means are provided to keep the gas flow as steady as possible especially when one and the same gas stream is used for fractionating as for pneumatic transport.

The invention also provides a fractionating device adapted to separate fine particles and or small granules from a compacted mass by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream which comprises a device e.g. a moving device such as a rotating device and for example a cylinder or cone along the axis of which the compacted mass is moved in said gas stream and which rotating device contains one or more apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained.

Suitably the compacted mass moves along a helical path within the device. Suitably the length of the helical path is at least twice the linear length of travel along the axis of the device e.g. at least 2 3 or 5 times. Suitably there is also at least some movement of the compacted mass relative to the device itself which may thereby create some friction between the mass and the wall of the device.

In one embodiment the fractionating device comprises a fractionating chamber there being mounted inside the chamber an open ended cylinder or cone . The open ended cylinder or cone may be rotatably supported on rollers. Carrier gas is supplied to the inside of the open ended cylinder or cone . The jacket of the cylinder or cone may be perforated with one or more apertures through which fine particles and or small granules are entrained in the carrier gas. As described elsewhere the entrained fine particles and or small granules may be captured for recycling.

In some embodiments the gas flow in the fractionating chamber may be arranged to be an at least partially turbulent flow. In some other embodiments the gas flow in the fractionating chamber may be arranged to form a laminar flow e.g. a vortex. In some embodiments some of the gas flow may be turbulent and some may be laminar.

In the method and apparatus according to the invention pneumatic transport may be used. Suitably the gas used to entrain the fine particles in the compacted mass is in fluid communication with the carrier gas used to convey materials in continuous operation. In some embodiments different gas streams may be used for fractionation and conveying. Suitably the gas stream employed in the pneumatic conveyor is the same gas stream as is used to entrain the fine particles and or small granules. In yet further embodiments conveying of the material may be implemented using some mechanical conveying means e.g. screw or belt conveyor while fractionation means utilize some suitable gas stream. Construction of such embodiments following teachings of this disclosure is obvious to a person skilled in the art.

Thus suitably the powder for compaction is conveyed from a reservoir to the means to apply compaction force by means comprising use of a pneumatic conveyor.

The pneumatic transport may use a device e.g. a cyclone for separating carrier gas from fine particles. The device may be for example capable of continuous operation at an about even gas flow rate in the sense that the carrier gas stream used in the fractionating process is not disturbed by pressure changes e.g. by pressure shocks such as are required to keep filters of various types open.

 Continuous operation in this context means ability to operate without maintenance or other interruptions for at least one hour eight hours or 24 hours.

The carrier gas stream s used in the fractionating process and or the pneumatic conveyance which suitably are one and the same gas stream are suitably created by a generator of negative pressure e.g. a vacuum pump which draws gas in from another part of the system typically at the outlet to the fractionating means. A suction fan is a typical example of a vacuum pump. The vacuum pump is suitably provided with at least one filter to capture any particles that without filtering would be drawn through the pump. Most suitably two filters are provided in series i.e. a receiver filter and a safety filter .

One aspect of the invention is a dry granulate mass containing granules obtainable according to the method of the invention.

Without being limited by theory the inventors believe that the product of the process of the invention is influenced by triboelectric effects caused by passage of powder through the system. It is suggested in prior art that small particles may have a tendency to develop a negative charge whereas larger particles develop a positive charge or at least a less negative charge see e.g. article Generation of bipolar electric fields during industrial handling of powders by Ion. I. Inculet et al Chemical Engineering Science 61 2006 pages 2249 2253 e.g. when conveyed by a gas stream or otherwise moved in a gas stream. Hence at least some and possibly most of the granules of the dry granule mass appear to comprise a compressed core containing fine particles of material associated by Van der Waals forces and a coating layer containing fine particles and or small granules of said material associated with said compressed core by electrostatic forces. The inventors have also discovered that at least in some cases e.g. with powder containing binder excipient if granules obtained by the process of the invention are taken and a proportion of the starting material composed of fine particles is added back e.g. up to 15 fine particles is added back to a granulate mass that may already have e.g. 20 of fine particles and or small granules e.g. mass of flowability example 3 then the homogeneity flowability and tabletability of the granulate mass is not adversely affected in a significant manner. The added fines are perhaps taken into the porous surface of granules formed by the process of the invention. Inventors thus believe that in some embodiments it may be possible to use granules of some embodiments of the invention as carrier granules that may absorb e.g. into the pores of the granules up to 10 20 30 or more of fine particles and or small granules comprising same or different material as the carrier granules. The flowability of such mixture may be at an excellent very good or good level.

Granulate mass produced according to the invention is believed to have good compressibility because at least the surface of the granules is porous. The compressibility of the granulate mass of the invention may be good i.e. it may have a Hausner ratio of greater than 1.15 1.20 or 1.25. The compaction force of the present invention may be adjusted so that the compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio stays at good level.

The Hausner ratio may be calculated using formula p pwhere prepresents tapped bulk density of the granulate mass and Prepresents the loose bulk density of the granulate mass. The bulk densities may be measured by pouring 50 mg of granulate mass into a glass cylinder e.g. make FORTUNA model 250 2 ml having an inner diameter of 3.8 mm. After pouring the mass into the cylinder the volume of the mass is observed from the scale of the glass cylinder and loose bulk density of the mass is calculated. To measure the tapped bulk density the glass cylinder is tapped 100 times against a table top using a force comparable to a drop from the height of 5 cm. The volume of the tapped mass is observed from the scale of the glass cylinder and tapped bulk density of the mass is calculated.

Surprisingly and contrary to what is taught in the prior art e.g. in WO99 11261 the compressibility of the granulate mass of the invention does not generally exhibit any negative influence on the flowability of the granulate mass. For example a granulate mass of an embodiment of the invention with Hausner ratio above 1.25 generally exhibits very good or excellent flow characteristics.

Porous well flowing granules are generally desired in the pharmaceutical industry for example because it is possible to produce enhanced tablets from porous granules. Such tablets may for example disintegrate substantially quicker than tablets manufactured from dense granules. Further tablets compressed from porous granules often show higher tensile strength than tablets compressed from dense granules. High tensile strength is often desirable for tablets as such tablets are easier to package and transport than fragile tablets.

The granulate mass may be tabletable so that using standard tableting techniques e.g. using tableting forces available in widely used tableting machines it is possible to form it into tablets having tensile strength of at least 5N 10N or 15N. Tensile strength may be measured for example using a measuring device of make MECMESIN Mecmesin Limited West Sussex UK and model BFG200N.

The granulate mass may comprise at least one API and or at least one excipient usable in pharmaceutical products. In one embodiment the granulate mass comprises e.g. consists of at least one e.g. one API. In another embodiment the granulate mass comprises at least one e.g. one API and at least one e.g. one excipient. The granulate mass may contain a total amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient of at least 60 e.g. at least 80 w w. The granulate mass may contain one or more excipients e.g. a binder and or a disintegrant in an amount of 40 or less e.g. 20 or less for example 5 40 e.g. 5 20 w w.

The invention also provides a process for preparing a tablet which comprises compressing a dry granulated granulate mass manufactured according to the method of the invention optionally blended with one or more additional excipients. Said one or more additional excipients typically comprises a lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate. A relatively low amount of lubricant e.g. 0.1 5 e.g. 0.1 0.5 w w may be employed. A tablet obtainable by such a process is another aspect of the invention.

The granules of the invention may be especially useful in preparing multilayer tablets. In multilayer tablets it seems that it is advantageous to use porous granules as may be prepared according to the process of the invention to prepare the layers especially the inner layers. This may facilitate adherence of the layers to each other and particularly adherence of the outer layers to the inner layers. Use of larger size granules e.g. of size greater than 200 micron or even greater than 400 or 500 micron can also facilitate adherence of layers to each other since it results in a less smooth surface after compression. Multilayer tablets may typically be prepared by first compressing the layers individually and then compressing the layers together. Granules of the invention could be used in all the layers or just some of the layers e.g. the outer layers .

The granulation method and apparatus of the invention can be applied for many purposes in the pharmaceutical chemical and food industries. The method and apparatus use compaction force suitably low compaction force and gas stream to form granules of desired properties. The compaction force may be adjusted so that introduction of solid bridges is substantially avoided in the compaction step. The method and apparatus are adapted to treat the product granules gently to avoid breaking them to separate fine particles and or small granules from the acceptable granules and optionally to re circulate the rejected material for re processing in the system. The apparatus and method can be made easily adjustable controllable and more or less continuously operable.

The size distribution and or flowability of the granules produced by the apparatus may be analyzed in real time and the size distribution of the granules may be adjusted based on the analysis. For example the flake crushing screen see and below may be such that the aperture size of the mesh used for flake crushing can be varied by using some adjustment means. Another adjustable parameter typically is the gas flow rate of the fractionating device.

The method can be made economic as it allows re processing of rejected material with practically no waste and can be adapted to provide fast treatment of large amounts of material. The apparatus of the present invention may be adapted to be easy to clean and assemble and the process may be adapted to be stable and predictable thus making it easy to control.

Because of for example the homogeneity and or flowability of the resulting granules issues related to segregation can be avoided. The method of the present invention can be used in both small and large scale applications. Thus when a product e.g. granules or a tablet containing API s has been successfully developed under laboratory conditions the time required to set up a validated large scale manufacturing process can be short.

Because the method and apparatus of the present system is capable of granulating a variety of powders including those consisting of 100 APIs it is possible to produce granulate mass from separate substances in separate granulation processes and mix the resulting granules together after their individual granulations. Granulating API and excipients separately before blending may be advantageous e.g. when raw materials have very different particle sizes.

Different kinds of end products including tablets oral suspensions and capsules may be manufactured from the granulate mass.

According to the invention we also provide a process for manufacture of a tablet which comprises tableting granules according to the invention or granules made using the method of the invention.

We have found that the method of the present invention may be used for producing granules of large variety of powder substances usable in pharmaceutical industry.

The method of the present invention may thus be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising APIs of one or multiple classes of APIs the classes including for example antipyretics analgesics antiphlogistics hypnosedatives antihypnotics antacids digestion aids cardiotonics antiarrhythmics antihypertensives vasodilators diuretics antiulcers antiflatulents therapeutic agents for osteoporosis antitussives expectorants antiasthmatics antifungals micturition improvers revitalizers vitamins and other orally administered agents. APIs can be used singly or two or more of them can be used in combination.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising specific APIs for example paracetamol acebutolol metformin fluoxetine aspirin aspirin aluminum acetaminophen ethenzamide sazapirin salicylamide lactyl phenetidine isothipendyl diphenylpyraline diphenhydramine difeterol triprolidine tripelennamine thonzylamine fenethazine methdilazine diphenhydramine salicylate carbinoxamine diphenyldisulfonate alimemazine e.g. as tartrate diphenhydramine e.g. as tannate diphenylpyraline e.g. as teoclate mebhydrolin napadisylate promethazine e.g. as methylene disalicylate carbinoxamine e.g. as maleate chlorophenylamine e.g. as di maleate chlorophenylamine e.g. as d maleate difeterol e.g. as phosphate alloclamide cloperastine pentoxyverine carbetapentane tipepidine dextromethorphan e.g. as hydrobromide dextromethorphan e.g. as phenolphthalinate tipepidine e.g. as hibenzate cloperastine e.g. as fendizoate codeine e.g. as phosphate dihydrocodeine e.g. as phosphate noscapine dl methylephedrine e.g. as saccharin salt potassium guaiacolsulfonate guaifenesin caffeine anhydrous caffeine vitamin B1 and derivatives thereof vitamin B2 and derivatives thereof vitamin C and derivatives thereof hesperidin and derivatives thereof and salts thereof vitamin B6 and derivatives thereof and nicotinamide calcium pantothenate aminoacetate magnesium silicate synthetic aluminum silicate synthetic hydrotalcite magnesium oxide aluminum glycinate coprecipitation product of aluminum hydroxide hydrogen carbonate coprecipitation product of aluminum hydroxide calcium carbonate magnesium carbonate coprecipitation product of magnesium hydroxide potassium aluminum sulfate magnesium carbonate magnesium aluminometasilicate ranitidine cimetidine famotidine naproxen diclofenac piroxicam azulene indometacin ketoprofen ibuprofen difenidol promethazine meclizine dimenhydrinate fenethazine e.g. as tannate diphenhydramine e.g. as fumarate scopolamine e.g. as hydrobromide oxyphencyclimine dicyclomine metixene atropine methylbromide anisotropine e.g. as methylbromide scopolamine methylbromide methylbenactyzium e.g. as bromide belladonna extract isopropamide e.g. as iodide papaverine aminobenzoic acid cesium oxalate aminophylline diprophylline theophylline isosorbide e.g. as dinitrate ephedrine cefalexin ampicillin sucralfate allylisopropylacetylurea bromovalerylurea and where appropriate other pharmaceutically acceptable acid or base addition salts thereof e.g. those salts which are in common usage and other such pharmaceutically active ingredients described in European Pharmacopoeia 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising further specific APIs for example ibuprofen e.g. as sodium or sodium monohydrate alclometasone dipropionate allopurinol alprazolam amcinonide amitriptyline e.g. as HCl amoxicillin atenolol atracurium e.g. as besylate azithromycin aztreonam beclomethasone beclomethasone dipropionate betamethasone betamethasone acetate betamethasone buteprate betamethasone dipropionate betamethasone disodium phosphate betamethasone valerate bivalirudin bleomycin e.g. as sulfate bortezomib bromocriptine e.g. as mesilate budesonide buprenorphine e.g. as hydrochloride butorphanol e.g. as tartrate cabergoline calcipotriene calcitonin salmon carbamazepine carbidopa carboplatin carvedilol e.g. as phosphate cefadroxil cefdinir cefprozil cephalexin chlormadinone e.g. as acetate cilostazol cisplatin clarithromycin clobetasol e.g. as propionate clobetasone butyrate clomiphene e.g. as citrate clomipramine e.g. as HCl clonazepam clopidogrel e.g. as HBr cyproterone e.g. as acetate darifenacin daunorubicin e.g. as HCl deferasirox deferoxamine e.g. as mesilate deflazacort deprodone propionate desmopressin e.g. as acetate desonide desoximetasone diazoxide dicloxacillin diflorasone e.g. as diacetate difluprednate dihydro a ergocriptine e.g. as mesylate dihydroergocristine e.g. as mesylate dihydroergotamine e.g. as mesylate dihydroergotoxine e.g. as mesylate diltiazem e.g. as HCl docetaxel dorzolamide e.g. as HCl doxepin e.g. as HCl doxorubicin e.g. as HCl epirubicin e.g. as HCl eptifibatide ergometrine e.g. as maleate ergotamine e.g. as tartrate etodolac etoposide famciclovir fludarabine e.g. as phosphate fludrocortisone acetate flumethasone flumethasone e.g. as pivalate flunisolide e.g. as anhydrous fluocinolone e.g. as acetonide fluocinonide fluorometholone fluticasone e.g. as propionate fluvoxamine e.g. as maleate formoterol e.g. as fumarate fulvestrant furosemide gabapentin galantamine e.g. as HBr gemcitabine e.g. as HCl gemfibrozil halcinonide haloperidol haloperidol e.g. as decanoate hydrochlorothiazide idarubicin e.g. as HCl imatinib imipramine e.g. as HCl imiquimod indomethacin labetalol e.g. as HCl latanoprost leflunomide leuprolide leuprorelin e.g. as acetate levodopa lisinopril lisuride e.g. as maleate loperamide lovastatin medroxyprogesterone acetate megestrol e.g. as acetate memantine metaxalone metergoline methyldopa methylergometrine meleate methylprednisolone metoprolol succinate metoprolol e.g. as tartrate mirtazapine mitomycin mitoxantrone e.g. as HCl mometasone furoate mupirocin mupirocin e.g. as calcium nabumetone naproxen e.g. as sodium nefazodone e.g. as HCl nicergoline norelgestromin octreotide e.g. as acetate olanzapine olmesartan e.g. as medoxomil ondansetron e.g. as HCl oxaliplatin oxazepam paclitaxel pancuronium e.g. as bromide pantoprazole e.g. as sodium sesquihydrate paramethasone acetate paroxetine e.g. as HCl pemetrexed diacid pentoxifylline pergolide e.g. as mesilate pioglitazone e.g. as HCl probenecid prostaglandin rocuronium e.g. as bromide rosuvastatin e.g. as calcium salbutamol albuterol e.g. as sulfate sertraline e.g. as HCl sildenafil silymarine solifenacin tamoxifen e.g. as citrate telmisartan terazosin e.g. as HCl terguride teriparatide ticlopidine e.g. as HCl timolol e.g. as maleate tobramycin tobramycin e.g. as sulfate torsemide trazodone triamcinolone triamcinolone acetonide trimethoprim trimipramine e.g. as maleate valaciclovir e.g. as HCl vecuronium e.g. as bromide venlafaxine e.g. as HCl verapamil zaleplon zoledronic acid zolpidem and zonisamide or a or an alternative pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof e.g. the HCl salt.

In one embodiment the API is not ibuprofen sodium or a hydrate thereof. In one embodiment the API is not ibuprofen sodium monohydrate. In another embodiment the API is not ibuprofen sodium dihydrate.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising further specific APIs for example lamotrigine ondansetron e.g. as hydrochloride lamivudine valacyclovir e.g. as hydrochloride paroxetine e.g. as hydrochloride zidovudine carvedilol rosiglitazone e.g. as maleate abacavir e.g. as sulfate bupropion e.g. as hydrochloride topiramate rabeprazole e.g. as sodium galantamine e.g. as hydrobromide risperidone oxybutynin e.g. as chloride repaglinide venlafaxine e.g. as hydrochloride ramipril pravastatin e.g. as sodium aripiprazole efavirenz levofloxacin escitalopram e.g. as oxalate memantine e.g. as hydrochloride tenofovir disoproxil e.g. as fumarate simvastatin alendronate e.g. as sodium losartan e.g. as potassium montelukast e.g. as sodium finasteride ezetimibe rizatriptan e.g. as benzoate mycophenolate mofetil capecitabine granisetron e.g. as hydrochloride ritonavir fenofibrate bosentan modafinil clopidogrel e.g. as bisulfate irbesartan irbesartan hydrochlorothiazide drospirenone desloratadine lansoprazole levetiracetam quetiapine e.g. as fumarate anastrozole bicalutamide candesartan cilexetil zolmitriptan and sumatriptan e.g. as succinate or a or an alternative pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof e.g. the HCl salt.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising further specific APIs for example atorvastatin e.g. as calcium amlodipine e.g. as besylate raloxifene e.g. as hydrochloride tadalafil pioglitazone e.g. as hydrochloride duloxetine e.g. as hydrochloride atomoxetine e.g. as hydrochloride terbinafine e.g. as hydrochloride benazepril e.g. as hydrochloride letrozole cyclosporine rivastigmine e.g. as tartrate fluvastatin e.g. as sodium celecoxib cetirizine e.g. as hydrochloride tolterodine e.g. as tartrate voriconazole eletriptan e.g. as hydrobromide pregabalin sunitinib e.g. as malate and ziprasidone e.g. as hydrochloride or a or an alternative pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof e.g. the HCl salt.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising further specific APIs for example 4 quinolinecarboxamide 8 aminoquinoline acyclovir ALTU 135 apixaban armodafinil arzoxifene asenapine asimadoline asoprisnil bazedoxifene belatacept bendamustine e.g. as HCl bifeprunox binodenoson brecanavir brivaracetam buprenorphine canertinib casopitant e.g. as mesylate certolizumab pegol cladribine clazosentan clevudine clodronate conjugated estrogens synthetic B cyproterone cytofab dalbavancin dapoxetine darapladib dasatinib denagliptin dienogest doxepin dronedarone eculizumab eltrombopag elzasonan enalapril enzastaurin eplivanserin etaquine ethynylcytidine exenatide farglitazar gaboxadol garenoxacin gemcabene glimepiride combination of glimepiride and rosiglitazone hydrocodone e.g. as bitartrate combination of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen indiplon ixabepilone lapatinib lecozotan lonafarnib lorazepam lubiprostone lurasidone maraviroc merimepodib mesalamine mesopram minodronate motivizumab muraglitazar nalmefene naltrexone naveglitazar odiparcil ONO 2506 ONO 8025 orexin RA 1 oxycodone pazopanib pertuzumab pexelizumab pleconaril polyphenon E posaconazole prasugrel pruvanserin ribavirin rimonabant roflumilast roflumilast ruboxistaurin e.g. as mesylate saredutant satraplatin saxagliptin seletracetam silodosin sitafloxacin sitagliptin solabegron solifenacin e.g. as succinate soraprazan telbivudine teriflunomide tesaglitazar ticlimumab varenicline e.g. as tartrate vicriviroc vildagliptin vinflunine vorinostat xaliprodene sibutramine e.g. as hydrochloride miglustat tamsulosin e.g. as hydrochloride esomeprazole e.g. as magnesium stavudine amprenavir thalidomide lenalidomide emtricitabine dutasteride itraconazole indinavir e.g. as sulfate aprepitant orlistat ganciclovir oseltamivir e.g. as phosphate nifedipine temozolomide and dextroamphetamine e.g. as sulfate or a or an alternative pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof e.g. the HCl salt.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising solid APIs that may be poorly water soluble such as for example antipyretic analgesic agents such as benzoic acid quinine calcium gluconate dimercaprol sulfamine theobromine riboflavin mephenesin phenobarbital thioacetazone quercetin rutin salicylic acid pyrabital irgapyrin digitoxin griseofulvin phenacetin nervous system drug sedation narcotics muscle relaxant hypotensive agent antihistamines antibiotics such as acetylspiramycin erythromycin kitasamycin chloramphenicol nystatin colistin e.g. as sulfate steroid hormones such as methyltestosterone progesterone estradiol benzoate ethinylestradiol deoxycorticosterone acetate cortisone e.g. as acetate hydrocortisone prednisolone non steroid yolk hormones such as dienestrol diethylstilbestrol chlorotrianisene other lipid soluble vitamins and where appropriate other pharmaceutically acceptable acid or base addition salts thereof e.g. those salts which are in common usage and other such pharmaceutically active ingredients described in European Pharmacopoeia 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

In one embodiment of the invention the API is selected from acebutolol HCl fluoxetine HCl paracetamol sodium valproate ketoprofen and metformin HCl.

In one embodiment of the invention the API is not acebutolol HCl fluoxetine HCl paracetamol sodium valproate ketoprofen or metformin HCl.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising excipients or other ingredients usable in e.g. pharmaceutical industry such as for example L asparagic acid wheat gluten powder acacia powder alginic acid alginate alfa starch ethyl cellulose casein fructose dry yeast dried aluminum hydroxide gel agar xylitol citric acid glycerin sodium gluconate L glutamine clay croscarmellose sodium Nymcel sodium carboxymethyl cellulose crospovidone calcium silicate cinnamon powder crystalline cellulose carmellose sodium synthetic aluminum silicate wheat starch rice starch potassium acetate cellulose acetate phthalate dihydroxyaluminum aminoacetate 2 6 dibutyl 4 methylphenol dimethylpolysiloxane tartaric acid potassium hydrogen tartrate magnesium hydroxide calcium stearate magnesium stearate purified shellac purified sucrose D sorbitol skim milk powder talc low substitution degree hydroxypropylcellulose dextrin powdered tragacanth calcium lactate lactose sucrose potato starch hydroxypropylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate glucose partially pregelatinized starch pullulan powdered cellulose pectin polyvinylpyrrolidone maltitol maltose D mannitol anhydrous lactose anhydrous calcium hydrogenphosphate anhydrous calcium phosphate magnesium aluminometasilicate methyl cellulose aluminum monostearate glyceryl monostearate sorbitan monostearate medicinal carbon granular corn starch dl malic acid and possibly other such others classified as excipient in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising disintegrants such as for example carboxymethyl cellulose Nymcel sodium carboxymethyl cellulose croscarmellose sodium cellulose such as low substitution degree hydroxypropylcellulose non pregelatinized starch such as sodium carboxymethyl starch hydroxypropyl starch rice starch wheat starch potato starch maize starch partly pregelatinized starch and others classified as disintegrators in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Edition and one two or more of them in combination. Favoured disintegrants include starch eg maize starch and or carboxymethylcellulose.

The method of the present invention may be applicable to producing granules and tablets of the invention from material comprising binders such as for example synthetic polymers such as crospovidone saccharides such as sucrose glucose lactose and fructose sugar alcohols such as mannitol xylitol maltitol erythritol sorbitol water soluble polysaccharides such as celluloses such as crystalline cellulose microcrystalline cellulose powdered cellulose hydroxypropylcellulose and methyl cellulose starches synthetic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone inorganic compounds such as calcium carbonate and others classified as binders in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination. A favoured binder is microcrystalline cellulose.

Examples of fluidizing agents include silicon compounds such as silicon dioxide hydrate light silicic anhydride and others classified as fluidizing agents in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The method of the present invention may also be applicable to produce granules from any powder material other than an API or pharmaceutical excipient. The method may thus be applicable to e.g. any detergent nutritive substance sweetener artificial or natural flavor vitamin herb kampo medicine spice drink substance e.g. coffee cocoa tea . Improvements over prior art may be achieved e.g. in the properties of granules or tablets made of such granules. For example longer shelf life or quicker dissolution to water may be achieved.

Granulate mass produced according to the method of the invention may have one or more of the following desirable properties substantial absence of solid bridged between particles good homogeneity good flowability good compressibility good tabletability.

Granulate mass prepared according to the invention from a mixture of materials eg with different particle sizes surprisingly tends to be very homogeneous suggesting that the method of the invention is effective at countering any tendency for the materials to segregate by contrast with what would be expected if fractionation were performed using sieves or other classifying means whose operation is based on fractionating material on the basis of the particle size for example .

Tablets produced according to the method of the invention may have one or more of the following desirable properties good homogeneity high tensile strength fast disintegration time high drug loading need for only a low amount of lubricant.

Some embodiments of the invention are described herein and further applications and adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

When producing granular mass and tablets of material comprising only a small proportion of active pharmaceutical ingredient segregation of granular mass as well as content uniformity of resulting tablets may become serious issues. For example it may be difficult to mix a large proportion of excipient with a small proportion of API in powder form for granulation in a manner that guarantees sufficiently low degree of segregation. If segregation occurs before tableting the content uniformity of the tablets may not be at sufficient level.

The invention also provides an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation which is highly suitable for preparing tablets having a low amount of API. The method may be applicable to a wide variety of APIs.

Specifically we have found a method for making tablets having a drug load of less than 20 utilizing a dry granulation method that produces well flowing granules from various materials including APIs and excipients and their combinations. As the different granular masses produced by the granulation method have similar flow characteristics segregation issues of granular mass and content uniformity issues of tablets of prior art may be avoided.

According to various aspects of the invention at least two batches of powder material are granulated separately and the resulting granules are then mixed together and compressed into tablets. The first batch contains the API and optionally some excipients. Further excipients and APIs may be provided in the second and possible additional batch es . The ratio between excipients to API ratio in the first batch is kept low enough to prevent segregation of powders in the mass before granulation.

As an aspect of the invention we provide a method for producing a tablet comprising a first active ingredient in an amount of 0.01 19.99 w w e.g. at least 0.01 0.1 or 0.5 and less than 5 10 or 19.99 w w and one or more additional active ingredients and excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 80.01 99.99 w w e.g. at least 80.01 90 or 95 and less than 99.99 99.9 or 99.5 w w. The method comprises i preparing granules from a powder comprising active ingredient and optionally one or more accompanying excipients wherein the ratio of excipients to active ingredient is less than 5 1 4 1 or 3 1 by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii preparing granules from a powder comprising one or more excipients including at least a binder and optionally one or more second or further active ingredients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules iii blending the accepted granules of step i and step ii with each other and with any other components of the tablet in granular or fine powder form and iv compressing the blend to form a tablet.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for producing a tablet comprising a a first active ingredient in an amount of 0.01 19.99 w w e.g. at least 0.01 0.1 or 0.5 and less than 5 10 or 19.99 w w and b one or more excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 80.01 99.99 w w e.g. at least 80.01 90 or 95 and less than 99.99 99.9 or 99.5 w w. The method comprises i preparing granules from a powder comprising active ingredient and no excipients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii preparing granules from a powder comprising one or more excipients including at least a binder and optionally one or more second or further active ingredients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules iii blending the accepted granules of step i and step ii with each other and with any other components of the tablet in granular or fine powder form and iv compressing the blend to form a tablet.

The one or more excipients of step ii of the above aspects of the invention may include a disintegrant.

The granules in step ii of the above aspects of the invention may be prepared from a powder also comprising a disintegrant.

Suitably in step ii granules are prepared from a powder comprising all the components of the tablet formulation except said first active ingredient said optional accompanying excipients and lubricant and in step iii the accepted granules of steps i and ii are blended with lubricant.

In some embodiments the granules of step i step ii or step iii may comprise more than 1 2 or 5 percent and up to 30 20 or 10 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to control the disintegration and dissolution time of the tablet. The dissolution time of such tablet may be e.g. at least 0.5 1 4 or 8 hours in the gastric system.

A lubricant may for example be selected from magnesium stearate and hydrogenated plant or vegetable oil eg hydrogenated cottonseed oil or any other suitable lubricant known to a person skilled in the art.

In tablets of the invention a relatively low amount of lubricant eg 0.1 5 eg 0.1 0.5 w w may be employed.

The first second or further active ingredient may be sensitive to moisture e.g. ambient humidity heat or compression forces. Alternatively or additionally the active ingredient may be insoluble in water.

When manufacturing low drug load tablets from APIs that are especially sensitive to e.g. compression heat or moisture e.g. ambient humidity the API may be granulated together with one or more excipients that protect the API during the granulating and or tableting processes. For example nicorandil is known as an API that is sensitive to at least ambient humidity. Additionally nicorandil may also be sensitive to heat and or compression forces typically used in granulation and tableting processes of prior art.

An embodiment of the invention may thus be a tablet manufactured using the method of the first aspect of this aspect of the invention wherein the first active ingredient is nicorandil. A first batch of powder material comprising the API is prepared. In the first batch some moisture absorbing excipient e.g. maize starch and or hypromellose may be mixed with the API to protect the API from ambient humidity. Further to protect the API from effect of compression forces used in granulation some well compressible excipient e.g. microcrystalline cellulose may be mixed with the API and other excipients. Suitably the ratio of excipients to API is 5 1 or less in the first batch. Then first batch of powder material is granulated according to step i of the first aspect of the invention disclosed herein.

Separately a second batch of material comprising at least binder e.g. microcrystalline cellulose and optionally other excipients e.g. disintegrant e.g. maize starch or carboxymethylcellulose is mixed and granulated according to step ii of the first aspect of the invention. Finally the two batches of granulated material are mixed together along with some lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate or hydrogenated cottonseed oil and the resulting bulk is compressed into tablets.

There is also provided an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation which is highly suitable for preparing tablets having a high API content high tensile strength and a suitable disintegration profile. The method may be applicable to a wide variety of APIs.

Specifically we have found a method for making tablets having a drug load of at least 50 and less than 90 utilizing a dry granulation method that produces well flowing granules from various materials including APIs and excipients and their combinations.

A compaction force is used to produce granules from material that comprises binder excipient and optionally at least one active ingredient and one or more other excipients. Suitably the compaction force for compacting binder excipient is low to preserve a high level of binding capabilities of the binder for the tableting phase.

An aspect of the invention is a method for producing a tablet comprising a at least one active ingredient in a combined amount of 50 90 w w e.g. at least 50 51 60 or 70 and less than 80 89 or 90 w w such as 51 89 w w and b one or more excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 10 50 w w e.g. at least 10 11 or 20 and less than 30 40 49 or 50 w w such as 11 49 w w. The method comprises steps of i preparing granules from a powder comprising a binder and optionally one or more other excipients or active ingredients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii optionally blending the accepted granules with other components of the tablet in granular or fine powder form and iii compressing the granules or blend to form a tablet with the proviso that the tablet does not comprise a paracetamol maize starch and microcrystalline cellulose in a ratio of 60 20 20 w w b acebutolol HCl and starch in a ratio of 90 10 w w c sodium valproate hypromellose and maize starch in a ratio of 90 5 5 w w d ketoprofen and maize starch in a ratio of 50 50 w w or e metformin HCl microcrystalline cellulose and maize starch in a ratio of 80 14 6 w w.

In some embodiments granules may be prepared in step i from a powder comprising all the components of the tablet formulation except lubricant and in step ii the accepted granules are blended with lubricant.

In some embodiments at least one other component of the tablet formulation may be in granular form in step ii and is prepared from a powder comprising another component by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream. The other component of the tablet formulation may also comprise an active ingredient.

In some embodiments the active ingredient may be e.g. moisture sensitive heat sensitive or insoluble in water.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing granules from a powder comprising a active ingredient in an amount of 50 90 e.g. at least 50 51 60 or 70 and less than 80 89 or 90 w w such as 51 89 w w and b one or more excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 10 50 w w e.g. at least 10 11 or 20 and less than 30 40 49 or 50 w w such as 11 49 w w by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream wherein the powder does not comprise a paracetamol maize starch and microcrystalline cellulose in a ratio of 60 20 20 w w b acebutolol HCl and starch in a ratio of 90 10 w w c sodium valproate hypromellose and maize starch in a ratio of 90 5 5 w w or d ketoprofen and maize starch in a ratio of 50 50 w w.

In some embodiments the granules of step i or step ii may comprise more than 1 2 or 5 percent and up to 30 20 or 10 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to control the disintegration and dissolution time of the tablet. The dissolution time of such tablet may be e.g. at least 0.5 1 4 or 8 hours in the gastric system.

A lubricant may for example be selected from magnesium stearate and hydrogenated plant or vegetable oil eg hydrogenated cottonseed oil or any other suitable lubricant known to a person skilled in the art.

In tablets of the invention a relatively low amount of lubricant eg 0.1 5 eg 0.1 0.5 w w may be employed.

The active ingredient s may be sensitive to moisture e.g. ambient humidity heat or compression forces. Alternatively or additionally the active ingredient may be insoluble in water.

Very high drug load in combination with good tensile strength and suitable disintegration profile is often difficult to achieve in a tablet using traditional formulation techniques. It is especially challenging to achieve a combination of sufficient tensile strength with a disintegration profile suitable to the API.

The invention provides an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation which is suitable for preparing tablets having a very high API content sufficient tensile strength and a suitable disintegration profile. The method may be applicable to a wide variety of APIs.

Specifically we have found a method for making tablets having a drug load of at least 90 and less than 100 utilizing a dry granulation method that produces well flowing granules from various materials including APIs and excipients and their combinations.

A compaction force is used to produce granules from material that comprises at least one active pharmaceutical ingredient and optionally one or more excipients. Suitably the compaction force for compacting the active pharmaceutical ingredient is low to preserve a sufficient level of binding capabilities of the active ingredient for the tableting phase.

According to an aspect of the invention we provide a method for producing a tablet comprising a active ingredient in an amount 90.01 99.99 w w and b one or more excipients in an amount 0.01 9.99 w w which comprises i preparing granules from a powder comprising at least the active ingredient and optionally one or more excipients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii optionally blending the accepted granules with other components of the tablet in granular or fine powder form and iii compressing the granules or blend to form a tablet which tablet does not contain ibuprofen sodium dihydrate in an amount 95 w w as active ingredient.

The granules of step i may be prepared from a powder comprising all the components of the tablet formulation except lubricant and in step ii the accepted granules are blended with lubricant.

In some embodiments the granules of step i or step ii may comprise more than 1 2 or 5 percent and up to 30 20 or 10 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to control the disintegration and dissolution time of the tablet. The dissolution time of such tablet may be e.g. at least 0.5 1 4 or 8 hours in the gastric system.

In some embodiments the tablet may comprise a active ingredient in an amount 91 99 w w and b one or more excipients in an amount 1 9 w w.

In some embodiments the active ingredient may be moisture sensitive heat sensitive or insoluble in water.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing granules from a powder comprising a active ingredient in an amount 90.01 99.99 w w and b one or more excipients in an amount 0.01 9.99 w w by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream.

Some excipients e.g. binders are known to maintain their tablettability and other characteristics the better the less the material is compacted in the granulation process. However lightly compacted granules may be very fragile and the bulk may contain a large proportion of fine particles. Sieving techniques used in traditional dry granulation processes are not generally suitable for producing well flowing granular mass from such material as the sieves may clog and the fragile granules may be destroyed in the sieving process. Furthermore lightly compacted excipient granules of prior art typically have flowability issues that make their use in tablet manufacturing process difficult e.g. because of segregation in the manufacturing process.

The invention provides an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation which is highly suitable for preparing tablets using excipients that preserve their useful properties during the granulation and tableting phases. The method may be applicable to tablets containing API selected from a wide variety of APIs.

Specifically we have found a method for making tablets using dry granulated well flowing and easily tabletable excipients. The dry granulated excipient granules of the method have flow characteristics that are similar to the flow characteristics of granules made of e.g. active pharmaceutical ingredients. Prior to mixing with the granular excipients the active ingredients may be granulated separately using a suitable granulation method including the method used for granulating the excipients.

An aspect of the invention is a method for producing a tablet comprising a active ingredient and b one or more excipients including at least a binder which comprises i preparing granules from a powder comprising one or more excipients including at least a binder and not comprising any active ingredient by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii blending the accepted granules with other components of the tablet including the active ingredient in granular or fine powder form and iii compressing the blend to form a tablet. This aspect of the invention contains a proviso that the tablet does not comprise metformin HCl maize starch and microcrystalline cellulose in a ratio of 80 6 14 w w.

The one or more excipients in step ii may be in granular form and is prepared from a powder comprising another component by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream.

The powder of step i may comprise a binder and a disintegrant wherein the ratio of binder to disintegrant is between 10 1 and 1 1 w w.

In some embodiments the binder may be microcrystalline cellulose and the disintegrant may be starch e.g. maize starch.

In some embodiments the granules of step i or step ii may comprise more than 1 2 or 5 percent and up to 30 20 or 10 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to control the disintegration and dissolution time of the tablet. The dissolution time of such tablet may be e.g. at least 0.5 1 4 or 8 hours in the gastric system.

In some embodiments the tablet may comprise 50 90 w w active ingredient the balance being one or more excipients. In some other embodiments the tablet may comprise 0.01 19.99 w w active ingredient the balance being one or more excipients.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing granules from a powder comprising one or more excipients and not comprising any active ingredient by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream wherein the powder does not comprise maize starch and microcrystalline cellulose in a ratio of 3 7 w w.

In one embodiment the method for preparing granules disclosed herein is applied to granulating powder comprising pure excipient i.e. single excipient material having purity of at least 95 98 or 99 .

Metformin is a widely used API for treatment of diabetes. It has proven to be a quite challenging API to formulate especially if a high drug load together with suitable disintegration is needed. Further combining metformin with other APIs into a single high drug load tablet is also regarded as a difficult task.

The invention provides an improved method and apparatus for dry granulation which is highly suitable for preparing tablets comprising metformin and at least one second active ingredient. The tablets may have a high API content high tensile strength and a suitable disintegration profile.

Specifically we have found a method for making tablets having a drug load of at least 50 and less than 90 utilizing a dry granulation method that produces well flowing granules from various materials including APIs and excipients and their combinations.

A compaction force is used to produce granules from material that comprises binder excipient and optionally at least one active ingredient and one or more other excipients. The compaction force for compacting binder excipient is suitably adapted to be low to preserve a high level of binding capabilities of the binder for the tableting phase.

An aspect of the invention is a method for producing a tablet comprising a metformin and at least one second active ingredient in a combined amount of 50 90 w w e.g. at least 50 60 or 70 and less than 90 or 80 w w and b one or more excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 10 50 w w e.g. at least 10 or 20 and less than 50 40 or 30 w w. The method comprises steps of i preparing granules from a powder comprising a binder and optionally one or more other excipients or active ingredients by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream and collecting the accepted granules ii optionally blending the accepted granules with other components of the tablet in granular or fine powder form and iii compressing the granules or blend to form a tablet.

As used herein metformin includes metformin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Most suitably metformin is employed as its HCl salt.

The at least one second active pharmaceutical ingredient may be selected e.g. from any meglitinide e.g. repaglinide or nateglinide any intestinal alpha glucosidase inhibitor e.g. acarbose sibutramine any cannabinoid receptor antagonist and bupropion. Said active ingredients may be employed in the from of pharmaceutically acceotable salts.

The granules of step i may also be prepared from a powder also containing an active ingredient. For example said active ingredient may be metformin. Alternatively it may be the second active ingredient.

In some embodiments granules may be prepared in step i from a powder comprising all the components of the tablet formulation except lubricant and in step ii the accepted granules are blended with lubricant.

In some embodiments at least one other component of the tablet formulation may be in granular form in step ii and is prepared from a powder comprising another component by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream. The other component of the tablet formulation may also comprise an active ingredient.

In some embodiments the active ingredient may be e.g. moisture sensitive heat sensitive or insoluble in water.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method for preparing granules from a powder comprising a metformin and at least one second active ingredient in a combined amount of 50 90 w w e.g. at least 50 60 or 70 and less than 90 or 80 w w and b one or more excipients including at least a binder in an amount of 10 50 w w e.g. at least 10 or 20 and less than 50 40 or 30 w w by a process characterized in that a compaction force is applied to the powder to produce a compacted mass comprising a mixture of fine particles and granules and separating and removing fine particles and or small granules from the granules by entraining the fine particles and or small granules in a gas stream.

In some embodiments the granules of step i or step ii may comprise more than 1 2 or 5 percent and up to 30 20 or 10 percent weight of e.g. metholose or hypromellose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to control the disintegration and dissolution time of the tablet. The dissolution time of such tablet may be e.g. at least 0.5 1 4 or 8 hours in the gastric system.

A lubricant may for example be selected from magnesium stearate and hydrogenated plant or vegetable oil eg hydrogenated cottonseed oil or any other suitable lubricant known to a person skilled in the art.

In tablets of the invention a relatively low amount of lubricant eg 0.1 5 eg 0.1 0.5 w w may be employed.

The active ingredient s may be sensitive to moisture e.g. ambient humidity heat or compression forces. Alternatively or additionally the active ingredient may be insoluble in water.

The disintegrant may for example be selected from carboxymethyl cellulose Nymcel sodium carboxymethyl cellulose croscarmellose sodium cellulose such as low substitution degree hydroxypropylcellulose starch such as sodium carboxymethyl starch hydroxypropyl starch rice starch wheat starch potato starch maize starch partly pregelatinized starch and others classified as disintegrants in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

The binder may for example be selected from synthetic polymers such as crospovidone saccharides such as sucrose glucose lactose and fructose sugar alcohols such as mannitol xylitol maltitol erythritol sorbitol water soluble polysaccharides such as celluloses such as crystalline cellulose microcrystalline cellulose powdered cellulose hydroxypropylcellulose and methyl cellulose starches synthetic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone inorganic compounds such as calcium carbonate and others classified as binders in Arthur H. Kibbe Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3rd Edition and one two or more of them in combination.

A further aspect of the invention is a tablet obtainable according to the methods of specific embodiments A to E.

Still yet another aspect of the invention is a dry granulate mass obtainable according to the method of preparing granules according to the methods of specific embodiments A to E.

The apparatus and of an embodiment of the invention comprises a compacting device that compacts powder material into granules and a fractionating device that fractionates at least some fine particles and or small granules away from acceptable granules. Two different alternatives for a fractionating device are shown in and . The fractionating device in is shown in more detail in . The fractionating device in is shown in more detail in . The apparatus shown in and comprise a raw material feeding container into which material to be granulated is fed. The feeding container is connected to a pneumatic conveyor pipeline to which the material is passed through a feeder valve . The tubes of the pneumatic conveyor system have a diameter of about 47 mm and their material may be for example some suitable plastic material e.g. polyethene. The feeder valve may be a so called star shape flap valve. One such valve is manufactured by Italian pharmaceutical device manufacturer CO.RA Lucca Italy . In operation the closing element of the valve may be turned 180 alternately in either direction whereby buildup of the powder substance in the container can be avoided. Other equipment intended for continuous charging of powder substance such as compartment feeders may also be used.

The pressure of the air flowing within the conveyor may be adjusted to be lower than that of the surroundings. This may be achieved for example using an extractor suction fan . The suction fan is of make BUSCH Maulburg Germany and model Mink MM 1202 AV. The fan may be operated for example at 1860 RPM. Makeup carrier gas may be supplied through a connection . The material fed from the feeding container is transported through the conveyor into a separating device wherein fine rejected particles and new feed from container are separated from the carrier gas. The fan can be provided with filters shown in situated beside the separating device. The device may be capable of continuous operation. One such device is a cyclone. After the separating step the separated powder falls into an intermediate vessel .

The container can be mounted on load cells to measure the weight of the material. The intermediate vessel is provided with valves and which may be of the same type as the feeding container valve . From the intermediate vessel the powder is transferred to a compacting device e.g. roller compactor to produce a ribbon of compacted material which is then passed to a flake crushing screen where granules are created by crushing the ribbon. In the context of this invention compacting is considered as the step of the process that produces granules to be fractionated regardless of whether a separate screen or milling device is used or not. The compaction force of the compactor may be adjusted by e.g. altering the feed rate of the powder substance the rotating speed of the rolls of the roller compactor the pressure applied to the rolls of the compactor device and or the thickness of the resulting ribbon. The compaction force applied by the compactor may be adjusted to a low level to achieve the desired properties of the compacted mass e.g. the porosity of the resulting granules and or proportion of fine particles and or small granules. The compactor and the flake crushing screen are devices well known to a person skilled in the art. After passing the compacting and flake crushing devices the material is partially in the form of granules but part of the material will still be in the form of fine particles and or small granules. The maximum size of the granules as well as the mean size of the granules may be affected by for example the mesh size of the flake crushing screen. It should be noted however that size of a granule may increase as result of agglomeration in the fractionating and or conveying steps of the process.

In some embodiments not shown in figure the apparatus may comprise more than one compacting device e.g. roller compactor to improve e.g. capacity and or continuous processing capabilities of the apparatus. The compacting devices may require some periodic service breaks e.g. for cleaning up. The apparatus may continue operation even if one of the compacting devices is being serviced.

The product from the above steps that contains fine particles and porous granules and that may be statically charged e.g. by triboelectrification is conveyed to a fractionating chamber . There may be one or two e.g. star shaped flap valves between compacting device and fractionating device to control the flow of compacted material to the fractionating device. The fractionating device divides the granulate mass into an accepted fraction and a rejected fraction on the basis of how different particles of the mass are affected by the carrier gas stream that flows in the fractionating device. The rejected fraction passes with the fed carrier gas stream to the feed conveyor for re processing and the accepted fraction is led into a product container . By this means the product granules are treated gently and a relatively large volume of material comprising mostly fine particles and or small granules is removed from the mass.

The operation of the fractionating chamber is described in more detail with reference to . There are many possible alternative fractionating devices.

In the embodiments shown in and load cells are fitted to the container . Such sensors and other instrumentation can also be arranged in other containers and components of the system. Not all of the possible instrumentation is shown in the figures. For example the pneumatic conveyor if required may be provided with at least one pressure difference sensor the information from which can be used to control the operation of the apparatus.

The present invention may also be carried out as a batch process where the reject fraction is not immediately returned to the system using the conveyor but fed into a container of reject material. Such a system is not described in detail but its construction and use will be readily apparent to those of skilled in the art.

The apparatus can be automated by transferring information received from the various sensors e.g. the pressure difference sensors the load cells and the valves as well as information regarding the speed of rotation and the loads of the motors to a control unit and by applying appropriate control means . In some embodiments the control means may monitor and control the amount of material currently in circulation in various components of the apparatus. For example the control means may receive information from at least one of the load cells scales of the apparatus and control operation of any of the valves and according to the information received from the load cells. Further the operation of suction fan may be controlled e.g. according to information received from e.g. pressure difference sensor from an instrument measuring gas flow rate or from any instrument measuring the properties e.g. flowability and or amount of accepted granules.

In some embodiments where e.g. there is no control means the valves of the process e.g. and may be operated using timers that actuate a valve according e.g. to some suitable fixed or varying time interval.

Valves and may be operated so that flow of gas from the container through the valves to the compacting device is essentially prevented. For example the valves and may be operated in an alternating manner so that at least one of the valves is kept closed at any given point of time during the operation of the apparatus . This way the even gas flow in the fractionating and conveying parts of the process is not disturbed by any pressure shocks.

For enhancing flow of powder material in the process some vibrating or ultrasound emitting devices or other suitable means may be included e.g. in the components of the process where pneumatic conveying is not used. Such components may be e.g. the container various parts of the compacting device and flake crushing granulator device .

Control of the compaction force of the compacting device e.g. roller compactor is also useful as granule structure as well as the proportion of fine particles and or small granules is significantly affected by the compaction force used. The compaction force depends on a number of parameters such as the rotating speed of the rolls and the feed rate of the powder substance. For example the higher the feed rate of the powder substance for a given roller rotation rate the higher the compaction force will be.

The exemplary apparatuses of and also comprise a receiver filter and a safety filter . The receiver filter is the primary means of filtering any particles away from the gas that exits the system. However as the materials processed by the system may be e.g. toxic or otherwise hazardous a separate safety filter arrangement is required in many cases. There are multiple solutions known to a person skilled in the art that may be possible for the filtering arrangement and . One receiver filter arrangement suitable for e.g. an embodiment capable of continuous processing of powder material is described in .

The material of the conveyor may be e.g. PVC e.g. FDA PVC. Various components of the system may be connected together with electric wires for grounding purposes. Suitably the entire system is grounded.

In the roller compactor compacts the mass containing raw material and optionally particles recycled from the fractionating device into a ribbon using rolls that apply mechanical force to the mass to be compacted. Depending on the compaction force applied to the mass and the thickness of the ribbon the amount of mass that gets compacted into granules varies. The remaining mass may remain non compacted or weakly compacted fine particles and or weakly compacted small granules for example in the middle of the ribbon. The small granules and or fine particles may not be capable of forming acceptable granules alone. However the presence of such mass may have a positively contributing role in forming of acceptable granules in the fractionating and or conveying steps of the process e.g. through triboelectrification and electrostatic forces. Depending on the feed material and compacting parameters such as thickness of the ribbon the proportion of fine particles and or small granules may vary.

A convenient way to adjust operating parameters of the system is to set the compaction force of the roller compactor to the minimum that produces at least some well flowing granules and set the rotating speed see the description related to of the fractionating device to the maximum available e.g. about 100 RPM in the device of make ROTAB Donsmark Process Technology A S Denmark and model 400EC 200 and then adjust the carrier gas flow rate so that acceptable granules with desired flow characteristics start flowing out the system. Too little gas flow in the fractionating device causes the proportion of fine particles and or small granules to increase in the mass of accepted granules whereas use of too high a gas flow causes a large proportion of acceptable granules to be unnecessarily re processed. Setup of the optimal gas flow may be done manually or automatically for example using real time measurement of flow of accepted granules and characteristics of those granules. One such measurement arrangement is shown in .

An exemplary fractionating device that may be suitable for use in the present apparatus is shown in . The device made of stainless steel comprises an aperture of input material through which the powder comprising at least some granules e.g. larger than 150 m is lead to the device. In addition to the granules the input material typically comprises a substantial proportion of fine particles and or granules e.g. smaller than 150 m. The powder falls e.g. by effect of gravitation into the device that comprises an open ended cone and an optional cylindrical section . In other embodiments also other shapes different than a cone may be used as long as the shape enables creation of at least one advantageously downward narrowing vertical vortex. The input material travels in the device along a helical path of the vortex.

The passage of powder into the device may be controlled e.g. using a pair of valves not shown in figure e.g. a pair of star shaped flap valves. The same controlling means may also be used for blocking flow of replacement air through the aperture of input material . In one exemplary embodiment the height of the cone is 200 mm the height of the cylinder is 100 mm the diameter of the cylinder is 170 mm the diameter of the aperture of the accepted material is 50 mm and the inner diameter of the carrier gas outlet tube is 40 mm. In this embodiment an inner cylinder is partially e.g. 80 mm in the embodiment described here inside the cylindrical component . The diameter of the inner cylinder in this embodiment is 90 mm. Flow of any significant volume of replacement air through the inner cylinder is essentially blocked. In different embodiments also different measurements may be used.

The carrier gas outlet tube is suitably arranged so that it causes a vortex inside the device . Replacement carrier gas is led into the device through the aperture of the accepted material . For example the tube may be attached tangentially to the cylindrical section . The inventors have made a surprising observation that when a vortex is induced inside the vertically positioned device by sucking carrier gas through tube the device produces acceptable granules and fractionates unacceptable material quite efficiently. The acceptable granules fall downwards in the vortex by effect of gravitation whereas the fine particles and small granules are entrained by the gas stream sucked out of the device through aperture . Some proportion e.g. up to 20 40 60 or 80 of acceptable granules may also be sucked out of the device through the tube . During their residence in the device fine particles and or small granules may agglomerate with other granules thus making the granules grow further.

At least with some materials the resulting granules have been observed to have high charge of static electricity. When necessary a fractionating device may also comprise means e.g. a vibrating or an ultrasound emitting device for preventing buildup of material in various structures of the device.

In an alternative embodiment to that shown in the cylindrical upper section of the device could be omitted and the carrier gas out tube could be attached to the frustoconical section .

The device may also comprise conveyor belt cleaning means and . Advantageously to keep the material flows and gas stream inside a closed device the belt conveyor is enclosed in a closed chamber comprising an aperture for input material accepted granules and rejected granules.

This embodiment illustrates how the flowability of the material may contribute to the fractionation of the material. The fraction of the material that flows well flows downwards at an angle by gravitation on the conveyor belt whereas the fraction of the material that does not flow properly is entrained in gas stream and or is conveyed out of the device using a conveyor.

The powder leaving the compacting device falls through a charge connection into the feed end of the cylinder and is transported by the spiral towards an outlet tube . The carrier gas flowing through the outlet moves in the opposite direction to the accepted granules . Acceptable granules pass along in the cylinder and fall through the outlet to a product container not shown by effect of gravitation. Unacceptable fine particles and or small granules that may be accompanying the acceptable granules to the tube are generally conveyed back from the tube to the cylinder by the gas stream . In the present device the outlet is a downward pointing tube whose length is 70 mm and diameter is 40 mm. The rejected fraction of fine particles and or small granules together with the carrier gas stream flows to the feeding conveyor see in through connection for reprocessing. The granules may grow in size in the fractionating device or in . This agglomeration may be caused e.g. by triboelectrification and electrostatic forces. As in the embodiment shown e.g. in the movement of individual accepted granules in the rotating cylinder may have a spinning component caused by the flow of material against the wall of the rotating cylinder. This may contribute to the fractionation effect of the device.

It is also noteworthy to observe that the cylinder may act not only as a fractionating means but also as a buffer and conveyor of input material. Thus this embodiment may provide benefits over the other fractionating means described herein. One such benefit is for example the ability to absorb bursts of input material coming from the compacting device.

The embodiment shown in comprises also means for keeping the rotating cylinder clean. One such means blows pressurized gas e.g. air through a plurality of holes towards the cylinder . The pressure used may be e.g. 1 4 bar.

The fractionating means may also comprise means for monitoring the progress of material in the fractionating device. Such means may be e.g. a sensor measuring the rotating speed of the cylinder or any other suitable means known to a person skilled in the art.

The properties of the accepted fraction may be influenced e.g. by changing the rotation speed of the cylinder the angle of inclination of the cylinder the pitch of the spiral and the size number and location and the shape of the apertures in the cylinder as well as by varying the flow rate of the carrier gas.

In the shown embodiment the rotating device is a cylinder of diameter of 190 mm and length of 516 mm and comprises apertures each having a diameter of 1.5 mm and the apertures reside on average 6 mm from each other. The air stream that enters the fractionating device through aperture is further led out of the fractioning chamber for reprocessing through an aperture in of 50 mm in diameter. Inside the cylinder there is a screw shaped guiding structure that advances 80 mm per revolution towards the aperture of accepted material . The height of the guiding structure is 25 millimeters. shows a drawing of an exemplary perforated stainless steel sheet that may be used to build a suitable cylinder. The thickness of the sheet is about 0.8 mm. In this example sheet dimension is 51 cm dimensions and are 8 cm dimensions and are 1 cm and dimension is 48 cm. The ROTAB device described above has been modified by changing the cylinder to one assembled from the steel sheet of and the fractionating chamber has been changed to one having the shape similar to one shown in of .

Although the devices shown in and are open ended and cylinder shaped and the movement involved is a rotating movement conveyor devices of other shapes and utilizing other kinds of movements may also be used to convey the mass in the fractionating air stream.

The device may optionally be adapted to improve its continuous processing capabilities. One such adaptation is disclosed in where a dual filter assembly is illustrated. The majority of fine particles and or small granules is separated from carrier gas e.g. air in cyclone see also in or but some fine particles and or small granules may be sucked out of the cyclone with the carrier gas. Those particles may need to be filtered out before the carrier gas leaves the system. The filters collect the fine particles and or small granules until the filter is cleaned. One filter may be active while the other is being cleaned e.g. by vibrating it. The valves may be used for guiding the gas flow through the active filter and for isolating the filter being cleaned from the gas stream. The powder resulting from the filter cleaning falls below the filter and further to a tube when the valve respectively is opened. In the other end of the tube there may be a lower valve that is opened after the upper valve has been closed. Opening the lower valve causes the powder to fall back into the circulation for re processing. This arrangement makes it possible to clean one of the filters while the apparatus is operational and the cleaning operation doesn t result in undesirable pressure shocks of carrier gas in the apparatus.

The apparatus may also optionally be equipped for example with sensors that measure e.g. the output rate of accepted material and or size of accepted granules in real time. An example about such an arrangement is shown in . Accepted granules leave the fractionating device through tube . Light emitting devices as well as light sensitive sensors have been installed in the tube to observe the size of the passing accepted granules. Based on the information created by the sensors the control logic of the system may adjust the operating parameters of the apparatus. One such adjustable parameter may be for example the size of granules produced by the flake crushing screen . Another such adjustable parameter may be the gas flow rate of the system. Yet further adjustable parameter is operation of any of the valves of the arrangement.

It may also be possible to equip the arrangement with a bulk flowability analyzer device that collects samples of accepted granules and tests their flowability using e.g. a funnel illustrated in . Any operating parameter e.g. gas flow rate compaction force or rotating speed of the cylinder of the fractionating means may be adjusted if the accepted granules do not pass the flowability test.

Granulation systems each produce granules from different substances or from the same substance but with different granulation parameters such as compaction force or size of accepted granules . Each system has its own means of adjusting the granulation parameters. The accepted granules from each granulation system are led through a conveyor to a granule mixing device that has means to control the amount of each of the granules in the final mix. The mixing device may also have granule mixing means to mix the granules together before the granulate mass flows to the container of final product or directly to a tableting machine not shown . The conveyor in is a tube that leads to the mixing device but the conveyor may also lead the granules into an intermediary storage container from which the mass may conveyed to the mixing device.

The device for determining sufficient flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 45 millimeters and with cone angle of approximately 59 degrees and a round aperture whose diameter is 12 millimeters. The length of tube is 23 mm. In a flowability test procedure the cone is filled with powder or granulate mass while the round aperture is kept closed. The aperture is opened cone is knocked lightly to start the flow and the flow of the powder through the aperture by mere gravitation force is observed. Additional shaking or other kind of movement of the cone during the test is not allowed. The material passes the flowability test if the cone substantially empties. Substantial here means that at least 85 90 or 95 of the powder leaves the cone.

The device for determining good flowability using the test procedure explained above has a smooth glass surface cone with a height of 50 millimeters and with cone diameter of 70 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 7 millimeters. The length of tube is 70 mm.

The device for determining very good flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 35 millimeters and with cone diameter of 48 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 4 millimeters. The length of tube is 50 mm.

The device for determining excellent flowability has a smooth plastic surface cone with a height of 40 millimeters and with cone diameter of 55 mm and a round aperture whose diameter is 3 millimeters. The length of tube is 60 mm.

Using the above mentioned or other embodiments of the present invention it is possible to produce granules that have one or multiple of some desirable general characteristics e.g. good flowability good compressibility good tabletability quick disintegration time of a tablet and high drug load. We have observed that those characteristics are applicable to many APIs and excipients. Thus some potentially time consuming and expensive parts of the drug formulation design process of prior art may be avoided with many APIs. The embodiments shown are also relatively cost efficient to build and use. For example it is possible to build an arrangement that is capable of producing several kilograms or tens of kilograms of granules per hour. The process is also relatively simple and easy to control in comparison to e.g. wet granulation methods of prior art. In the shown embodiments there are few parameters that may need to be adjusted.

Mean values are geometric mean values unless otherwise stated. Mean values of particle size are based on weight.

The examples below describe characteristics of some typical granules and tablets achievable using the embodiments of the present invention.

To observe the characteristics of the granulate mass of various embodiments of the invention and their tabletability a series of tests has been conducted. In all tests method and apparatus described in this document e.g. and has been used. The gas flow rate of the apparatus was adjusted so that the fractionating effect of the gas flow resulted in a granulate mass that had good very good or excellent flowability. The gas flow rate in the tests was achieved operating the suction fan BUSCH Mink MM 1202 AV of the system at a default speed of approximately 1860 RPM. With some materials the speed was altered from the default to achieve desired quality of the granulate mass. The compaction force of the roller compactor was adjusted to produce granules with optimal tableting characteristics. The force used was recorded as kilonewtons as indicated by the roller compactor HOSOKAWA Bepex Pharmapaktor L200 50P used in the tests. The diameter of the rolls of the compactor is 200 mm and the working width of the rolls is 50 mm. The thickness of the ribbon produced by the compactor is about 4 mm. The rotating speed of the rolls is typically between 10 and 12 RPM. The exact rotating speed is adjusted by the roller compactor to achieve the desired compaction force. The default mesh size of the flake crushing screen is 1.00 mm. In some experiments the mesh size of the flake crushing screen was altered from the default.

Unless specified differently a rotating device as shown in operating at about 100 RPM was used as the fractionating means of the apparatus of the tests. The default size of apertures in the cylinder of the rotating means was 1.5 mm.

In all tableting tests 0.25 of magnesium stearate was added to the granulate mass prior to tableting as a lubricant.

The tensile strength of the tablets has been measured using a measuring device of make MECMESIN Mecmesin Limited West Sussex UK and model BFG200N.

The particle size distribution of granulate mass was measured using stack of sieves. In the measurements the stack of four sieves was shaken for 5 minutes using an Electromagnetic Sieve Shaker manufacturer C.I.S.A Cedaceria Industrial S.L model RP 08 with power setting 6. The opening sizes of the sieves used were 850 m 500 m 250 m and 106 m.

A powder mass of 5.0 kg having 90 of acebutolol HCl powder mean particle size 27 m and 10 of starch was mixed. Compaction force of 40 kN was used to compact mass into granules having mean size of 877 m and standard deviation of 1.421 after fractionation. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.68 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round tablets of 10 mm diameter and 500 mg of weight were created using tableting force of 6 8 kN. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 80N N 10 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 6.5 minutes in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass having 20 2.24 kg of Fluoxetine HCl Manufacturer SIFAVITOR SpA Casaletto Lodigiano. Italy. Batch no. 2700 01 06 64 7.168 kg of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3682 and 16 1.792 kg of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 35 kN was used to compact mass into granules having mean size of 461 m and standard deviation of 2.358 after fractionation. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.25 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.595 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round tablets of 6 mm diameter and 112 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 1.89 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 44 N N 10 standard deviation 11.17 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 10 seconds in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass of approximately 4.0 kg having 60 of paracetamol fine powder Manufacturer Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 7845906C563 59 of particles smaller than 20 m 96 of particles smaller than 75 m 20 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3689 50 of particles smaller than 71 m and 20 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 30 kN was used to compact the mass into granules having mean size of 645 m and standard deviation of 1.464 after fractionation. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.586 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round convex tablets of 10 mm diameter and 454 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 0.6 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. This was a very good result since hitherto it has been considered difficult if not impossible to produce high load tablets of paracetamol by compression of granulates prepared using dry granulation methods. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 49 N N 10 standard deviation 12.73 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be less than a minute in water of approximately body temperature.

A powder mass of approximately 8.0 kg having 50 of ketoprofen Manufacturer Ketoprofen S.I.M.S. Societ italiana medicinali Scandicci batch 121.087 79 or particles smaller than 60 m and 50 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch SB4944 was mixed. Compaction force of 40 kN was used to compact the mass into granules having mean size of 900 m and standard deviation of 1.418. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.625 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Round convex tablets of 6 mm diameter and 94 mg of average weight N 10 standard deviation 1.94 were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 39 N N 10 standard deviation 14.56 . Tablet disintegration time was observed to be about 10 seconds in water of approximately body temperature.

Approximately 4.0 kg of powder mass having 100 of metformin HCl Supplier SIMS trading Firenze Italy batch 21.039 was compacted using compaction force of 35 kN to produce granules having mean size of 668 m and standard deviation of 1.554. The mesh size of the flake crushing screen was set to 1.00 mm. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.694 g ml and the mass had good flowability. Separately excipient granules containing 70 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 batch 5S3689 and 30 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed and granulated using the same compaction force. Then 80 of metformin granules were mixed with 20 of excipient granules and compressed into tablets. Round convex tablets of 12 mm diameter and containing 500 mg of metformin were created using maximum tableting force that produced no capping. The average tensile strength of the tablet was 59 N N 3 . Tablet disintegration time was not measured.

In addition to tableting examples compressibility and flowability of granulate mass of embodiments of the invention was tested by measuring the Hausner ratio of the mass and observing the flowability of the mass. Methods usable for calculating Hausner ratio and observing flowability of the mass have been described earlier in this disclosure.

A powder mass of 4.0 kg having 100 paracetamol Manufacturer Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 60889060107 was compacted using compaction force of 12 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm into granules having mean size of 708 m and standard deviation of 1.349 after fractionation. 0.58 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 m. The bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.610 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.758 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was calculated to be 1.24. Despite the relatively high compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent.

A powder mass having 90 4.0 kg of Metformin METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE USP BATCH N. 17003742 USV LIMITED B.S.D. Marg. Govandi Mumbay 400 088 INDIA 8 356 g of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3682 and 2 88 g of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 30 kN flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm and suction fan speed of 2100 RPM was used to produce granules having mean size of 477 m and standard deviation of 2.030 after fractionation. 11.0 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 m. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.581 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.714 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.23. Despite the relatively high compressibility as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent. When experimenting with metformin the inventors have also made a surprising observation that although 100 metformin fine powder exhibits heavy agglomeration forming large hard agglomerates when stored in room temperature and ambient humidity 100 metformin granules made of such powder using a method of the invention show practically no such agglomeration during storage time.

A powder mass of approximately 3.0 kg containing 70 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 and 30 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed. Compaction force of 16 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm was used to produce granules having mean size of 318 m and standard deviation of 2.159 after fractionation. 19.6 of the granules of the mass had diameter of smaller than 106 m. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.379 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.510 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.35. Despite the high compressibility of the mass as indicated by the Hausner ratio the flowability was observed to be excellent.

A powder mass of approximately 4.0 kg containing 20 of ketoprofen S.I.M.S. Society italiana medicinali Scandicci batch 121.087 and 80 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 was mixed. Compaction force of 24 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 0.71 mm was used to produce granules. When the suction fan speed of the system was set at 1980 RPM the mean size of the accepted granules was 304 m and standard deviation was 2.275 after fractionation. 23.0 of the mass had particle size smaller than 106 m. The loose bulk density of the mass was 0.510 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.676 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.325. The flowability of the mass was observed to be sufficient. When the suction fan speed of the system was set at 2400 RPM the mean size of the accepted granules was 357 m and standard deviation was 2.121 after fractionation. 13.7 of the mass had particle size smaller than 106 m. The loose bulk density of the mass was 0.521 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.714 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.371. The flowability of the mass was observed to be excellent. This example shows that by varying the gas flow rate of the system granulate mass with different flow characteristics may be obtained. This example also indicates that contrary to what is taught in prior art e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 752 939 the Hausner ratio doesn t necessarily predict the flowability of the granulate mass. For example the granule size distribution of the granular mass may have greater effect on flowability than the compressibility of the granulate mass. Good compressibility and flowability may thus co exist in the same granulate mass.

The embodiments described in this disclosure are capable of producing significant amounts of granulate mass. In a capacity test of one embodiment comprising the fractionating device of 5.98 kg of Paracetamol 7845 Paracetamol Fine Powder Mallinckrodt Inc. Raleigh USA Batch 7845906C563 10.69 kg of Microcrystalline Cellulose CAS no. 9004 34 6 JRS PHARMA LP Patterson USA Batch 5S3689 37.10 kg of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. n. 03401 Batch 01015757 12.19 kg of lactose LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE DMV International Pharmatose 80M DP5500 Batch 10209285 906535704 34.04 kg of cellulose Technocel CFF GmbH Gehren Germany Batch G13060620 were mixed and granulated using compaction force of ca. 40 kN and suction fan speed of 2160 RPM. The apparatus was running for two hours and 38 minutes producing 94.66 kg of granules which had at least good flowability characteristics.

A powder mass of approximately 5.0 kg containing 50 of microcrystalline cellulose EMCOCEL CAS No. 9004 34 6 Batch 5S3689 and 50 of maize starch CERESTAR Mat. no. 03401 batch 01015757 was mixed and granulated. Reprocessing of the rejected fraction was prevented in the granulation process. To achieve this the mass to be processed was manually fed to the intermediate vessel in from where it was conveyed to the compactor in by opening the valve and in before starting the process. The process was then started and the mass of 5.0 kg was granulated and fractionated. During the processing the valves and in was kept shut to prevent re processing of the rejected fraction. Compaction force of 40 kN and flake crushing screen mesh size of 1.00 mm was used to produce granules having mean size of 523 m standard deviation 1.70 after fractionation. The test run produced 1630 g 32.6 of accepted granules. A SEM image of the surface of an accepted granule is shown in image of . The rest of the mass was rejected by the fractionating device. 4.0 of the granules particles of the accepted mass had diameter of smaller than 106 m. The loose bulk density of the resulting mass was 0.56 g ml and tapped bulk density was 0.641 g ml. The Hausner ratio of the mass was measured to be 1.15. The flowability of the accepted fraction was observed to be excellent. On the other hand the flowability of the rejected fraction was observed to be insufficient.

The rejected fraction contained 16.4 of granules larger than 250 m whereas the accepted fraction contained 92 of granules larger than 250 m.

To observe the tabletability of the accepted fraction of the granulate mass 0.5 of magnesium stearate was added to the mass and tablets of average weight of 588 mg were produced. The average tensile strength of the tablet N 6 was measured to be 23.56N and standard deviation was 1 308. The disintegration time of the tablet was observed to be about 12 seconds.

Unlike in the above examples a fractionating device according to the embodiments of and of this disclosure was used in the fractionating step of the granulating process. The mass to be processed comprised 80 of microcrystalline cellulose CAS no. 9004 34 6 JRS PHARMA LP Patterson USA EMCOCEL 50M Batch 5S3689 and 20 of maize starch CARGILL Mat. n. 03401 Er . 01119935 . Compaction force of 30 kN was used to form granules from the mass. As shown in diagram of the mass contains more than 60 of particles smaller than 106 m. After fractionation the mass contains approximately 11 of particles smaller than 106 m. The mass of diagram had poor flowability. Although there still are some fine particles and or small granules in the mass of diagram the fractionated mass has very good flowability. The mass also exhibits good tableting characteristics.

To a person skilled in the art the foregoing exemplary embodiments illustrate the model presented in this application whereby it is possible to design different methods systems granules and tablets which in obvious ways utilize the inventive idea presented in this application.

