---

title: System and method for providing laser shot patterns to the lens of an eye
abstract: There is provided a system, apparatus and methods for developing laser systems that can create precise predetermined shot patterns for providing areas of varying softness in the lens of an eye. These areas of varying softness may have shapes that correspond to instruments used to remove material from the lens of the eye. There is further provided a multiplicity of spheres pattern, which may provide for bubble formation which in turn lubricates the lens material for removal after sectioning.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09375349&OS=09375349&RS=09375349
owner: LENSAR, LLC
number: 09375349
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 of 1 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 228 560 titled System and Method for Providing Laser Shot Patterns to the Lens of an Eye filed Jul. 25 2009 and 2 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 228 529 titled System and Method for Providing Laser Shot Patterns to the Lens of an Eye filed Jul. 24 2009 and this application is a continuation in part application of both 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 217 285 titled System and Method for Improving the Accommodative Amplitude and Increasing the Refractive Power of the Human Lens with a Laser filed Jul. 2 2008 now pending which is a continuation in part of PCT US2007 001353 filed Jan. 19 2007 and 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 217 295 titled System and Apparatus for Delivering a Laser Beam to the Lens of an Eye filed Jul. 2 2008 now pending which is a continuation in part of PCT US2007 001486 filed Jan. 19 2007 wherein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 217 285 is a continuation in part application of both 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 414 838 titled System and Method for Providing the Shaped Structural Weakening of the Human Lens with a Laser flied May 1 2006 now pending which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 337 127 titled System and Method for Treating the Structure of the Human Lens filed Jan. 20 2006 now pending and 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 414 819 titled System and Apparatus for Treating the Lens of an Eye filed May 1 2006 now pending which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 337 127 titled System and Method for Treating the Structure of the Human Lens filed Jan. 20 2006 now pending and wherein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 217 295 is a continuation in part application of both 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 414 838 titled System and Method for Providing the Shaped Structural Weakening of the Human Lens with a Laser Filed May 1 2006 now pending which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 337 127 titled System and Method for Treating the Structure of the Human Lens filed Jan. 20 2006 now pending and 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 414 819 titled System and Apparatus for Treating the Lens of an Eye filed May 1 2006 now pending which is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 337 127 titled System and Method for Treating the Structure of the Human Lens filed Jan. 20 2006 now pending the entire contents of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for improving procedures that address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material use of lens replacement materials and combinations of these. The present invention additionally relates to systems and methods that provide predetermined precise and reproducible laser shot patterns for creating incisions in the natural human crystalline lens that are reproducible from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon.

In general presbyopia is the loss of accommodative amplitude. In general cataracts are areas of opacification within the crystalline lens which are sufficient to interfere with vision. Other conditions for which the present invention is directed include but are not limited to the opacification of the crystalline lens.

Presbyopia most often presents as a near vision deficiency the inability to read small print especially in dim lighting after about 40 45 years of age. Presbyopia or the loss of accommodative amplitude with age relates to the eyes inability to change the shape of the natural crystalline lens which allows a person to change focus between far and near and occurs in essentially 100 of the population over age 45. Accommodative amplitude has been shown to decline with age steadily through the fifth decade of life.

Cataracts or the condition when the natural crystalline lens becomes opaque and clouds vision occurs in millions of people per year and are treated effectively with surgical techniques such as ultrasonic phacoemulsification pioneered by Kelman about 40 years ago. Although the techniques have been refined over the years safety concerns from ocular trauma especially to the corneal endothelium from the ultrasonic energy required to break up a hardened cataract is undesirable especially for those with a compromised corneal endothelium such as those with Fuchs Dystrophy.

Several difficulties arise in the use of lasers in the treatment of cataracts. Cataracts scatter light including laser light and thus can prevent a laser treatment beam from having the desired effect on the tissue being treated. Moreover the light scattering effect of cataracts and other opacifications can make determining the position and shape of the lens by optical means difficult.

The established treatment for cataracts is the removal of the opacified human crystalline lens and its replacement with an intra ocular lens IOL . In general IOLs consist of a small plastic lens with plastic side struts called haptics to hold the lens in place within the capsular bag inside the eye. Exemplary types of IOLs include monofocal lenses multifocal IOLs which provide the patient with multiple focused vision at far and reading distances and accommodative IOLs which provide the patient with visual accommodation. The flexible nature of many IOLs enables them to be rolled and or folded up for insertion into the capsule. Examples of IOLs are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 188 949 6 849 091 5 699 142 and 5 607 472 the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercially available IOLs that by way of example may benefit from the present invention are CRYSTALENS and ACRYSOF RESTOR.

The CRYSTALENS IOL was developed by Eyeonics and is presently provided by Bausch Lomb. It is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 091. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by the Food and Drug Administration FDA PMA P030002 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved indicated use for CRYSTALENS was in part The Crystalens Model AT 45 Accommodating IOL is intended for primary implantation in the capsular bag of the eye for visual correction of aphakia in adult patients in whom a cataractous lens has been removed and is intended to provide near intermediate and distance vision without spectacles. The Crystalens IOL provides approximately one diopter of monocular accommodation. Nov. 14 2003 PMA P030002 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS FOR USE .

Thus the CRYSTALENS is an example of an FDA approved accommodating IOL. The term FDA approved accommodating IOL refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for accommodation regardless whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use.

The ACRYSOF RESTOR IOL is provided by Alcon and is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 669 142. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by FDA PMA P040020 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved use for RESTOR was in part AcrySOF ReSTOR IOLs are indicated for the visual correction of aphakia secondary to removal of a cataractous lens in adult patients with and without presbyopia who desire near intermediate and distance vision with increased spectacle independence. The lens is intended to be placed in the capsular bag. Apr. 24 2004 PMA PO40020 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS .

Thus the RESTOR is an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. The term FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for near intermediate and distance vision regardless of whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use. The CRYSTALENS would also be an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. Moreover the RESTOR and CRYSTALENS are examples of an FDA approved IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles.

A schematic representation of the shape and general structure of an example of an accommodating IOL along the lines of a CRYSTALENS is provided in . This IOL has a lens structure hinges located adjacent to the lens structure and haptics which contact the lens capsule . The overall shape of this IOL would be non geometric. As used herein the term non geometric shape refers to shapes other than circles ellipses squares and rectangles. As used herein the term geometric shape refers to circles ellipses squares and rectangles.

The removal of the natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material employ the use of a small initial incision or incisions in the limbal area of the eye which is the transition area between the cornea and sclera. This initial incision is typically made with a small triangular blade that is pushed through the outer clear cornea of the eye. It is through this initial incision that other instruments for use in the removal and replacement of natural lens material are inserted. It is also through this incision that the natural lens material is removed from the eye and replacement lens material is inserted into the eye.

Once the initial incision has been made the removal of the opacified natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material such as an FDA approved IOL presently employees a capsulorhexis and or a capsulotomy. A capsulorhexis generally consists of the removal of a part of the anterior lens capsule and the creation of a hole or opening in the lens capsule that results at least in part from a tearing action. A capsulotomy generally consists of a cutting of the lens capsule without or with minimum tearing of the capsule. Thus to remove the opacified natural lens material the lens capsule is opened. There are several known techniques for performing a capsulorhexis and a capsulotomy.

One of these capsulorhexis techniques is a can opener approach. This approach uses a small bent needle to make small incisions around the anterior lens capsule to create an opening in the lens through which the lens could be removed. This technique quite often results in the opening in the lens capsule having ragged edges. Another of these techniques is a Continuous Curvilinear Capsulorhexis CCC . CCC uses the same type of bent needle to begin the tear in the anterior lens capsule and then uses this needle and or special forceps which are guided under the edge of the cut to tear a circular hole in the lens capsule. CCC in comparison to the can opener approach reduces the ragged edge around the opening in the lens that occurred with using the can opener technique. However CCC does not eliminate the formation of irregularities in the shape of the edge and the presence of these irregularities is dependent upon surgical skill and technique.

The use of a Fugo plasma blade to create the hole in the anterior capsule may also be used. This technique is referred to as a capsulotomy. The Fugo plasma blade is a hand held device and was originally utilized in dentistry. It is an electromagnetic device that focuses its energy on a blunt cutting filament. Information regarding the Fugo plasma blade can be found in FDA PMA K063468 K001498 K041019 and K050933 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 413 574.

The novel and improved methods and systems for the performance of incisions in the natural crystalline human lens also at times referred to herein as the lens the natural lens the human lens and the crystalline lens which include aspects of the present inventions and which are set forth in detail in the present patent specification may provide for better implementation of other methods and systems for delivering laser beams to the lens of the eye such as those disclosed in published applications US 2007 173794A1 US 2007 173795A1 US 2007 185475A1 WO 2007 084694 A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 295 and WO 2007 084627A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 285 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Provided herein are embodiments of the present invention. There is provided a system for providing laser shot patterns to the natural human crystalline lens of an eye for softening the natural human lens having a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam a laser shot pattern for performing a capsulotomy a laser shot pattern having a first and a second area for sectioning a natural human lens of the eye where the first area of the laser shot pattern has a different shot and or cut density from the second area of the laser shot pattern and in this way upon delivery of the shot pattern to the lens of the eye the shots will cause the lens to have different softness and apparent densities which differences will correspond to the first and second areas.

Moreover in this system the number of shots for the first area may be denser than the number of shots for the second area the number of shots for the second area may be denser than the number of shots for first area and the shot pattern may further have patterns for creating a number of volumetric shapes. These volumetric shapes for the first area may be denser than the number of volumetric shapes for the second area and the number of volumetric shapes for the second area may be denser than the number of volumetric shapes for first area. The patterns may consist essentially of volumetric shapes such as cubes and spheres.

Moreover in this system the pattern of shots for the first area may be denser than the pattern of shots for the second area the pattern of shots for the second area may be denser than the pattern of shots for first area and the shot pattern may further have patterns for creating a number of volumetric shapes. These volumetric shapes for the first area may be more densely packed than the volumetric shapes for the second area and the volumetric shapes for the second area may be more densely packed than the volumetric shapes for the first area. The pattern of shots may consist essentially of a plurality of volumetric shapes such as cubes and spheres.

There is also provided a method of providing laser shot patterns to the natural human crystalline lens of an eye for softening the natural human lens having a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam a laser shot pattern for performing a capsulotomy a laser shot pattern having a first and a second area for sectioning a natural human lens of the eye where the first area of the laser shot pattern has a different shot and or cut density from the second area of the laser shot pattern and in this way upon delivery of the shot pattern to the lens of the eye the shots will cause the lens to have different softness and apparent densities which differences will correspond to the first and second areas.

Moreover in this method the pattern of shots for the first area may be denser than the pattern of shots for the second area the pattern of shots for the second area may be denser than the pattern of shots for the first area and the shot pattern may further have patterns for creating a number of volumetric shapes. These volumetric shapes for the first area may be more densely packed than the volumetric shapes for the second area and the volumetric shapes for the second area may be more densely packed than the volumetric shapes for first area. The pattern of shots may consist essentially of a series of volumetric shapes such as cubes and spheres.

Moreover in this method the number of shots for the first area may be denser than the number of shots for the second area the number of shots for the second area may be denser than the number of shots for first area and the shot pattern may further have patterns for creating a number of volumetric shapes. These volumetric shapes for the first area may be denser than the number of volumetric shapes for the second area and the number of volumetric shapes for the second area may be denser than the number of volumetric shapes for first area. The patterns may consist essentially of volumetric shapes such as cubes and spheres.

There is yet further provided a system and a method for providing laser shot patterns to the natural human crystalline lens of an eye for differentially softening the natural human crystalline lens the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam a laser shot pattern for sectioning the natural human crystalline lens of the eye including a first a second and a third area each area consisting essentially of a plurality of a volumetric shapes at least two of the areas having different densities of the volumetric shapes so that at least two of the areas when delivered to the natural human lens provide lens areas having different softnesses. In this system and method the shape of any one of the volumetric shapes may be in the shape of an aspiration tube or needle that is commonly used to remove lens material from the capsular bag. Further the shape of at least one of the areas may be based upon or follow in whole or in part the shape of such an aspiration tube or needle.

There is further provided a system and method for providing a laser beam shot pattern to a natural human crystalline lens of an eye the system including a laser for providing a laser beam a controller having associated with it a shot pattern. This shot pattern including a pattern for proving a multiplicity of independent spheres in the lens of the eye. Thus pursuant to this system and method the shot pattern may include a pattern for providing at least five independent spheres along an axis of the lens of the eye it may have a pattern for populating substantially the entire lens with spheres and it may comprise a pattern and sequence of delivery of the shots in the pattern that provide for the formation of a layer of bubbles at least partially surrounding a sphere. Additionally this shot pattern may have associated therewith further patterns for performing capsulotomies.

Additionally there is provided a method and a system for providing lubrication to lubricate natural human crystalline lens material for removal from an eye the system and method have the following processes and components which include a laser for providing a laser beam a controller having associated with it a shot pattern the shot pattern having a pattern for providing a multiplicity of spheres in the lens of the eye and the placement of the shots in the shot pattern in the lens of the eye such that bubble formation occurring during the delivery of the laser beam associates itself with the spheres and provides lubrication for the removal of the spheres.

Moreover there is provided a system and method for providing laser shot patterns to section the natural human crystalline lens of an eye and for softening and lubricating sections of the natural human lens the system and method including a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam a laser shot pattern for performing a capsulotomy a laser shot pattern for sectioning a natural human lens of the eye the laser shot pattern consisting essentially of a plurality of spheres the laser shot pattern including a first area and a second area and the first area of the laser shot pattern having a different shot and or cut density from the second area of the laser shot pattern so that when the area shot pattern is delivered to the natural human crystalline lens provides a lens that is softened and lubricated for more easy removal.

There is also provided a system for providing laser shot patterns to the natural human crystalline lens of an eye for differentially softening the natural human crystalline lens the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam laser shot pattern for sectioning the natural human crystalline lens of the eye including a first and a second pattern the first pattern consisting of a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of radial cuts in the lens the second pattern consisting of a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of cylindrical cuts. Wherein the cylindrical cuts are concentrically positioned in the area of the radial cuts. Still further the first pattern may have a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of radial cuts in the lens the radial cuts sharing a common center point the second pattern may have a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of cylindrical cuts and the cylindrical cuts may be substantially concentric and substantially sharing an common center point. Wherein the cylindrical cuts may be concentrically positioned in the area of the radial cuts and the radial common center and cylindrical common center points are substantially coincident. An improvement to the above pattern of cuts is one in which radial cuts are absent in the central cylinder of the concentric series of cylindrical cuts. Such a pattern of cuts has the advantage that it eliminates the high density of laser shots from the plurality of radial cuts which otherwise would intersect at or near the center of the pattern. The elimination of the central section of radial cuts in turn prevents a buildup of bubbles in the center of the pattern and improves the safety profile of the pattern by avoiding generation of a high level of radiant exposure of laser light in the central region of the cornea or retina.

Additionally there is provided a system for providing laser shot patterns to the natural human crystalline lens of an eye for differentially softening the natural human crystalline lens the system including a therapeutic laser for producing a laser beam a laser shot pattern for sectioning the natural human crystalline lens of the eye including a first and a second pattern the first pattern having a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of radial cuts in the lens the second pattern having a plurality of laser shots to create a plurality of cylindrical cuts and wherein the cylindrical cuts are positioned in the area of the radial cuts.

Moreover there are provided systems and method for providing a laser beam shot pattern to a natural human crystalline lens of an eye the system including having or providing a laser for providing a therapeutic laser beam the laser having a controller associated with it the controller having a shot pattern associated with it the shot pattern including a pattern for proving a multiplicity of substantially rods of a square or rectangular cross section in the lens of the eye and delivering or being capable of delivering the shot pattern to the lens of the eye. Further these provided embodiments may have shot pattern includes a pattern for providing at least 2 at least 3 at least 4 and at least 5 substantially independent rods that may further be are substantially rectangular or tubular or combinations of both. Alternatively the square or rectangular cross section tubes may be contiguous such that they form a space filling volume which occupies the central volume within the crystalline lens.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize based on the teachings set forth in these specifications and drawings that there are various embodiments and implementations of these teachings to practice the present invention. Accordingly the embodiments in this summary are not meant to limit these teachings in any way.

In general the present inventions relate to methods and systems for providing a laser to the lens of the eye to address and improve procedures relating to the removal of the natural crystalline lens and replacement of that lens with lens replacement material and more specifically to improvements in systems and methods related to cataract surgery. In particular the present inventions relate to methods and systems for providing predetermined laser shot patterns to the natural crystalline lens of the eye which shots patterns have different densities of shots and cuts. These shot patterns when delivered to the lens effecting a softening of the lens material making it easier to remove from the lens capsule. Thus the present invention provides the ability to customize and predetermine the relative amounts of force that are needed to remove specific sections of the lens material during cataract surgery.

The present methods and systems can be used with the novel and innovative laser system techniques that are the subject of the co pending patent applications that are cited herein and which have been incorporated herein by reference and the present methods and systems may possibly be used with other laser delivery systems for the removal of lens material to the extent such systems may be developed in the future. Preferably the present methods and systems can be incorporated into and used in conjunction with the systems of the co pending applications that have been incorporated herein by reference. In this way a single system with a single therapeutic laser can function as a start to finish device for performing the cuts necessary to remove and replace the natural lens.

Novel and pioneering laser systems and methods for the removal and replace of lens material are disclosed in U.S. provisional and regular patent applications Ser. No. 61 228 506 System and Method for Performing a Jigsaw Capsulotomy Ser. No. 61 228 484 System and Method for Performing and Sealing Limbal Area Incisions in the Eye Ser. No. 61 228 514 System and Method for Performing Corrective Arcuate Incisions in the Eye Ser. No. 12 509 412 Method and System for Removal and Replacement of Lens Material from the Lens of an Eye and Ser. No. 12 509 211 Method and System for Creating a Bubble Shield for Laser Lens Procedures which were filed on Jul. 24 2009 and the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Thus there is provided a system and method for the structural modification of the lens to make it easier to remove while potentially increasing the safety of the procedure by reducing and or eliminating the need to use high frequency ultrasonic energy used in phaco emulsification. In general the use of photodisruption cutting in specific volumetric shape patterns is utilized to create a sectioned lens i.e. to carve up the lens into sectioned volumetric shapes. Moreover the size shape and distribution of these volumetric shapes can be placed in the lens of the eye in such a way as to create areas of varying density apparent density or softness which areas may have different and predetermined shapes.

As used herein when the lens is referred to as becoming softer or softening when lens material is becoming easier to remove from the lens capsule and thus will require less force and effort to be removed. Thus as disclosed herein the lens becomes softer after it has interacted with a laser using a given shot density and or a given cut density. Thus as used herein softness increases for the region of treatment as the cut density increases. Similarly as softness increases the amount of force and effort to remove the lens decreases. In general if the similar shape cuts and patterns are being used patterns with a greater density of shots and patterns with a greater number of cuts will result in lens that has greater increases in softness and requires less force and effort to be removed.

The shapes of these areas can be varied to coincide with the shape of the tip of the aspiration needles that are used to remove the lens material from the capsule either with or without phaco emulsification. Typically these needles have tips which have a 47 30 or a 0 edge. These tips are illustrated in as tip 30 and 0 respectively.

A shot pattern for providing areas of varying density is provided in . Thus there is shown a plan view schematic of a natural human lens and thereon is provided a lens having a lens capsule and an area of hydrodissection . There is further provided by way of example three areas of varying shot density a first area a second area and a third area .

There is provided a first area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in this first area is low.

There is provided a second area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The volumetric shapes of this second area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the second area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the first area .

There is provided a third area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The volumetric shapes of this third area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area or the volumetric shapes of the second area. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the third area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the second area .

Thus in there is provided three shot patterns having varying shot and cut density when applied to the lens of an eye these shot patterns will result in three areas of lens having corresponding shapes and having varying softness as described above.

A shot pattern for providing areas of varying shot and or cut density is provided in . Thus there is shown a plan view schematic of a natural human lens and thereon is provided a lens having a lens capsule and an area of hydrodissection . There is further provided by way of example three areas of varying shot density a first area a second area and a third area .

There is provided a first area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in this first area is low.

There is provided a second area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The volumetric shapes of this second area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area . The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the second area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the first area .

There is provided a third area of varying density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The volumetric shapes of this third area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area or the volumetric shapes of the second area. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the third area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the second area . Thus the apparent density of the lens in this third area will be lower than the apparent density of lens in the second area and in turn the apparent density of the lens in the second area will be lower than the apparent density of lens in the first area which in turn is lower than the apparent density in the lens before sectioning.

As used herein when referring to the apparent density of sectioned lens in an area varying density lower apparent density lens areas correspond to softer and more easily aspirated material while higher apparent density lens areas correspond to firmer and more difficult to aspirate material. As used herein when referring to areas of varying density the use of the term first second and third are relative terms with respect to density of a particular pattern and do not refer to the sequence of order in which those patterns are placed on the lens. Moreover as used herein the term area refers to and includes 3 dimensional i.e. volumetric shapes.

A shot pattern for providing areas of varying shot and or cut density is provided in . Thus there is shown a plan view schematic of a natural human lens and thereon is provided a lens having a lens capsule and an area of hydrodissection . There is further provided by way of example two areas of varying shot density a first area and a second area .

There is provided a first area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in this first area is low.

There is provided a second area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying shot and or cut density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The volumetric shapes of this second area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the second area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the first area .

There is provided in a shot pattern for providing areas of varying shot and or cut density in which the shape of the area of highest shot and or cut density is in the shape of and thus corresponds to the shape of a 47 aspiration tube. Thus there is shown a plan view schematic of a natural human lens and thereon is provided a lens having a lens capsule and an area of hydrodissection . There is further provided by way of example two areas of varying shot density a first area and a second area .

There is provided a first area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in this first area is low.

There is provided a second area of varying shot and or cut density . This area of varying density is formed by cutting the lens into volumetric shapes such as cubes spheres as provided in greater detail in this specification cones rods etc. The shape of this area of varying density corresponds to the shape of a 47 aspiration tube or needle i.e. tube shape . The volumetric shapes of this second area may be the same as or they may be different from the volumetric shapes of the first area. The density of these volumetric shapes as well as the laser shots and cuts used to form them in the second area is greater than the density of volumetric shapes in the first area . Thus the lens where the second shot pattern is applied will be softer than the lens in the first area. In this way there is created by the application of these two patterns an area of softened lens that provides for the easier safer and less traumatic initial insertion of the aspiration tube or needle. Accordingly by first aspirating the material from area a surgeon can then insert the aspiration tip into area to hold and or gain better access to area and further help propagate the manipulation of the lens for removal.

While the second area is illustrated in as corresponds to the shape of a 47 aspiration tube of it should be understood that this shape could also correspond to the other shapes of aspiration tubes currently used for example the current shape of aspiration tubes are shown in in which shape illustrates the shape of a 47 aspiration tube shape illustrates the shape of a 30 aspiration tube shape 0 illustrates the shape of a 0 aspiration tube or shapes developed in the future.

A shot pattern is provided in . is a plan view of the lens of an eye having a multiplicity of spheres shot pattern thereon and is a cross sectional view of the same lens having the same multiplicity of spheres pattern thereon. by way of example and without limitation illustrate a pattern where when applied to the lens will cut the lens so that substantially all of the lens has been populated with independent spheres. Although not shown a hydrodissection may be used with this shot pattern. There is provided a lens capsule and a multiplicity of spherical laser shot patterns which has a plurality of individual sphere patterns only a few of the spheres are numbered i.e. and to avoid making the figure confusing which sphere patterns do not touch and are separated by lens material.

In this particular embodiment the spheres are of a size that provides for the placement of six spheres along the y axis of the lens. The size of the spheres may vary provided that space is left between them and that a sufficient number of spheres are cut into the lens to soften the lens for extraction.

The creation of these spheres in the lens of the eye will cause the formation of bubbles. These bubbles will be associated with the spheres and it is theorized that they may be present around the sphere i.e. on the surface of the sphere. These bubbles will serve as lubrication for the movement of the spheres into the aspiration needle for removal. The bubble layer is provided by way of illustration in . Thus there are shown spheres and from the plurality of spheres in . These spheres each have bubble layers and associated respective with them. These bubble layers can be made up of individual bubbles that have not coalesced bubbles that have coalesced into a film and combinations thereof.

The sequence of laser shots in the patterns herein may be executed from posterior to anterior as in most of the patterns disclosed herein to obtain more predictable results by reducing the variation caused by shooting through gas bubbles. However it may be desirable to shoot cataracts from the anterior to the posterior for the purpose of choosing the lesser of two undesirable effects. Thus it may be advantageous to shoot through the gas bubbles or let them dissipate rather than shooting through cataractous tissue which much more severely scatters the light and more quickly prevents photodisruption compared to gas bubble interference. Accordingly it is proposed to photodisrupt the most anterior sections of the cataract first then move posteriorally shooting through gas bubble remnants of cataractous tissue to the next layer of cataract tissue below. In addition to shooting the laser in anterior z planes then moving posterior it is further provided to essentially drill down anterior to posterior which is called herein the z axis and then move in x y and drill down again. These shot patterns may also be applied to a clear lens and that lens is subsequently removed. It is desirable when dealing with a clear lens that shooting from posterior to anterior is utilized.

In general a preferred laser system i.e. a laser device for treating patients is provided as shown by way of example in . In this system there is provided a treatment laser optics for delivering the laser beam a control system for delivering the laser beam to the lens in a particular pattern which control system is associated with and or interfaces with the other components of the system as shown for example by dashed lines in and or other control systems not shown in .

In general a laser system for providing the softening of the natural crystalline lens by generating laser incisions in the lens has by way of example and referring to a treatment laser which should provide a beam that is of a wavelength that transmits through the cornea aqueous and lens. The beam should be of a short pulse width together with the energy and beam size to produce photodisruption. Thus as used herein the term laser shot or shot refers to a laser beam pulse delivered to a location that results in photodisruption. As used herein the term photodisruption essentially refers to the creation of a microscopic shock wave at laser beam focus and conversion of matter to a gas by the laser. The term photodisruption has also been generally associated with Laser Induced Optical Breakdown LIOB . In particular wavelengths of about 300 nm to 2500 nm may be employed. Pulse widths from about 1 femtosecond to 100 picoseconds may be employed. Energies from about a 1 nanojoule to 1 millijoule may be employed. The pulse rate also referred to as pulse repetition frequency PRF and pulses per second measured in Hertz may be from about 1 KHz to several GHz. Generally lower pulse rates correspond to higher pulse energy in commercial laser devices. A wide variety of laser types may be used to cause photodisruption of ocular tissues dependent upon pulse width and energy density. Thus examples of such lasers are disclosed in 2007 084694 A2 and WO 2007 084627A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 285 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. These and other similar lasers may be used a therapeutic lasers.

In general the optics for delivering the laser beam to the structures of the eye including the natural lens of the eye should be capable of providing a series of shots to the natural lens in a precise and predetermined pattern in the x y and z dimensions. The z dimension as used herein refers to that dimension which has an axis that corresponds to or is essentially parallel with the optical AP axis of the eye. The optics should also provide a predetermined beam spot size to cause photodisruption with the laser energy reaching the natural lens or other structure of the eye intended to be cut.

In general the control system for delivering the laser beam may be any computer controller and or software hardware combination that is capable of selecting and controlling x y z scanning parameters and laser firing. These components may typically be associated at least in part with circuit boards that interface to the x y scanner the z focusing device and or the laser. The control system may also but does not necessarily have the further capabilities of controlling the other components of the system as well as maintaining data obtaining data and performing calculations. Thus the control system may contain the programs that direct the laser through one or more laser shot patterns. Similarly the control system may be capable of processing data from the biometric slit scanned laser and or from a separate controller for the slit scanned laser system. The slit scanned laser system is a system used to measure the position of optical surfaces within the eye such as the anterior and posterior lens and corneal surfaces or other eye features such as crystalline lens cataracts. Such measurements are used by the control system to generate patterns of laser shots to perform the desired crystalline lens incisions.

The laser optics for delivering the laser beam comprise a beam expander telescope a z focus mechanism a beam combiner an x y scanner and focusing optics . There is further provided relay optics camera optics which include a zoom and a first ccd camera .

Optical images of the eye and in particular optical images of the natural lens of the eye are conveyed along a path . This path follows the same path as the laser beam from the natural lens through the laser patient interface the focusing optics the x y scanner and the beam combiner . There is further provided a laser patient interface and a structured light source and a structured light camera including a lens. Examples of patient interface and related apparatus that are useful with the present system are provided in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 509 021 Liquid Filled Index Matching Device for Ophthalmic Laser Procedures Ser. No. 61 228 457 Liquid Holding Interface Device for Ophthalmic Laser Procedures filed Jul. 24 2009 Ser. No. 12 840 818 Liquid Holding Interface Device for Ophthalmic Laser Procedures filed Jul. 21 2010 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A structured light source may be a slit illumination having focusing and structured light projection optics such as a Schafter Kirchhoff Laser Macro Line Generator Model 13LTM 90CM Type 13LTM 250S 41 90CM M60 780 5 Y03 C 6 or a StockerYale Model SNF 501L 660 20 5 which is also referred to as a slit scanned laser. In this embodiment the structured illumination source also includes slit scanning means .

When using a scanned slit illumination the operation includes positioning the slit on one side of the lens taking an image then moving the slit approximately one slit width then taking another image and then repeating this sequence until the entire lens is observed. For example a 100 m slit width can scan a nominal 9 mm dilated pupil diameter in 90 images which takes approximately 3 seconds using a 30 Hz frame rate camera. To obtain images of the anterior surface in a single image without overlap the slit should be at an angle to the axis of the structured light camera i.e. it should not be parallel to that axis. The nominal slit angle can be approximately 30 60 degrees from the structured light camera axis. Any visible or near IR wavelength source within the sensitivity of the camera may be used. Low coherence length sources are preferable to reduce speckle noise in the structured camera image.

The structured light illumination source and the structured light camera are arranged in an angled relationship. The angled relationship which may include angling the detector of the structure light camera with respect to the axis of the camera optics may be but is not required to be in the so called Scheimpflug configuration which is well known. The structured light source in conjunction with the slit scanning means projects a line and or a plurality of lines onto the cornea and crystalline lens at an angle or plurality of angles. The light scattered from these objects is focused by the lens onto the camera system . Since the slit illuminated image of the cornea and lens is at a large angle with respect to the camera this presents a large depth of field to the camera and the entire slit image may not be in sharp focus at the camera. By tilting the camera at an angle or plurality of angles the image along the illuminated plane can be in sharper focus. To the extent that a sharper focus is not obtained arithmetic data evaluation means are further provided herein to determine a more precise location of the illuminated structures with respect to the laser device.

Alternatively the structured light illumination source may be a focused beam whose point of focus is scanned throughout the regions of interest within the eye. The scanned path of the beam might simulate the area illuminated by the scanned slit illumination described above by executing a raster scan of a plane of the eye analogous to that illuminated by the slit laser. In this context raster scan refers to a process in which the beam focus is scanned row by row to illuminate a section of the eye. In this case the camera s detector would be exposed to the scattered light from the scanned beam for the whole duration of the raster scan.

The images from the camera may be conveyed to the controller for processing and further use in the operation of the system. They may also be sent to a separate processor and or controller which in turn communicates with the controller . The structured light source the camera and the slit scanning means includes a means for determining the position crystalline lens and corneal surfaces in relation to the laser system and thus includes a means for determining the position and apex of the lens in relation to the laser system.

The delivery of laser shot patterns for the removal of lens is provided. Thus there are provided methods and systems for producing cuts i.e. incisions in the anterior lens capsule. These cuts are created by the therapeutic laser beam being delivered to the anterior lens capsule in precise predetermined and highly reproducible patterns delivery results in precise predetermined and highly reproducible shaped cuts in patterns as described and taught herein or as may be called for by the use of a particular IOL or other device or material to be inserted within the lens capsule. As used herein geometric shaped patterns or cuts referrer to circular and elliptical shaped patterns or cuts. As used herein non geometric shaped patterns or cuts refers to all other shapes that are not circular or elliptical.

The methods and systems to create these cuts in the anterior capsule provide superior results to the handheld methods and apparatus previously known for performing capsulorhexus and capsulotomy and thus the methods and systems disclosed herein are considered to be a substantial advancement in these techniques. In addition the delivery of the laser beam shots in a manner that greatly reduces the risk of a missed cut which depending upon the particular application may be very significant is provided. Moreover anterior capsule cuts are envisioned and provided that may be a continuous cuts cuts and lands uncut capsule portions between cuts and perforations. Thus as used herein the terms missed cut or missed cuts refer to a cut that was intended to be carried out by the delivery of a particular laser shot pattern but which did not occur because the laser beam missed the lens capsule or targeted lens material or the targeted material was hit but not cut. Thus in a cut and land pattern the lands would not be considered missed cuts if they were intended to be left uncut by the laser pattern.

The cuts in the lens anterior surface are for the purpose of creating an opening in the lens capsule for the remove of the interior structures of the lens. To facilitate this removal there are provided various laser shot patterns that cut the interior structure of the lens into small volumes which volumes can then be removed from the lens capsule. These small volumes can range from about 0.1 mmto about 30 mmand more preferably from about 0.4 mmto about 1 mm. Thus a grid laser shot pattern within the interior structures of the lens which creates cube shaped volumes of interior lens material can be employed. These cubes can range in size from a side having a length of about 100 m to about 3 mm to about 4 mm with about 500 m to 2 mm being a preferred size. An ideal size for the volumetric shapes is one in which the dimensions of the volumetric shape roughly match the size of the opening at the distal end of the aspiration tube. This enables the individual volumetric shape pieces to be easily aspirated into the aspiration tube without or with minimal use of ultrasound energy. Volumetric shape pieces that are substantially smaller than the opening in the aspiration tube require more laser shots without added significant benefit. Additionally this invention is not limited to the formation of cubes and other volumetric shapes of similar general size may be employed. For example in addition to the spheres that are provided herein and illustrated in arrangement of other shapes such as triangles and pie sliced volumes may be employed.

The laser cut in the anterior capsule is used to create a small opening in the lens anterior surface of the lens capsule for removal of the sectioned volumes of interior material. Thus this procedure may be used to treat cataracts. This procedure may also be used to remove a lens having opacification that has not progressed to the point of being cataractous. This procedure may further be used to remove a natural lens that is clear but which has lost its ability to accommodate. In all of the above scenarios it being understood that upon removal of the lens the lens capsule would subsequently house a suitable replacement such as an IOL accommodative IOL or synthetic lens refilling materials. Moreover the size and the shape of the opening is variable and precisely controlled and preferably for presently known lens refilling materials and IOLs is 2 mm or less diameter for lens refilling applications and about 5 mm for IOLs.

The creation of capsulotomy for the surgeon to access the lens to remove the lens is illustrated in A D. In these figures there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. There is further provided a ring shaped band cut and shot pattern. This shot pattern is provided by placing the laser beam in a series of tightly placed shots around the ring at the deepest depth most posterior ring and then continuing that sequence as the depth of the ring is decreased. Thus in general the shot will be distributed entirely around the ring at a particular depth before moving to a shallower depth. Thus the figure shows the cross section view of this cylindrical incision and accordingly provides for two sides of the ring. The ring shaped capsulotomy cuts of 100 m deep approximately centered on the apex as determined by the above referenced method of the anterior lens capsule surface and precisely 5 mm in diameter. The diameter of the capsulotomy can be varied between about 0.1 mm to about 9 mm diameter.

Since the lens capsule is approximately 5 to 15 m thick it is desirable for the depth of the cut to be typically between 5 and several hundred um although there is not much penalty for cutting several millimeters. With greater precision regarding the location and shape of the lens and lens apex the thickness of the band and in particular the amount of the band that is above the lens capsule and in the aqueous can be reduced. The shape of the capsulotomy can be elliptical with the x axis different then the y axis or other shapes. Thus the shape of the capsulotomy can be any shape that provides a benefit for a particular IOL for example the shape of the capsulotomy can be circular elliptical square rectangular or a non geometric shape. The shape will be based at least in part upon and be determined at least in part by the aspects of IOLs and in particular accommodating IOLs and IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles. A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

The order in which these activities are performed may depend upon the particular characteristics of the internal lens structure the density of the cataract the position of the cataract the type of device used to remove the internal lens material once it has been sectioned into small volumes the type and power of the laser used the amount and size of gas bubbles that are produced by the laser and other factors. Thus although the examples herein provide for an order of performing the activity of cutting the anterior surface of the lens and sectioning the interior structures of the lens it should be recognized that this order can be changed as well as performed essentially simultaneously or simultaneously.

The preferred laser system for treating patients is capable of making precise and predetermined cuts in the capsule of the lens thus giving rise to capsulotomies that are of precise and predetermined shapes. Thus there is provided the method of obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an IOL and in particular obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an accommodating IOL an IOL that reduces and or eliminates the need for spectacles and or an IOL for near intermediate and distance vision including but limited to FDA approved versions of said IOLs. Based upon this analysis an optimized shape and position for the capsulotomy for use with a particular IOL or grouping of similarly shaped IOLs is determined. A predetermined shot pattern for making this optimized shaped capsulotomy is then provided to the laser system preferably by providing the shot pattern to the control system . The laser system can then be used for an one or all of the following procedures determining the shape and position of the anterior surface of the lens and in particular the anterior surface of the lens capsule determining the apex of the lens capsule in relation to the laser system performing a laser capsulotomy having the precise and predetermined shape selected for a particular type of IOL and removal of the natural lens material.

Thus there is provided techniques systems and apparatus to deliver a laser beam in a shot pattern to the lens of the eye and in particular to the capsule of the lens of the eye in a precise and predetermined manner to provided for a precise predetermined capsulotomy. The shape of these patterns may be delivered using either the jigsaw or ring delivery sequences.

When performing laser assisted cataract surgery the process of cutting the nucleus with a photodisruption laser can cause a buildup of gas bubbles sufficiently near the soft cortex to allow the gas bubbles to propagate toward the capsule. In those situations where bubbles collect in close proximity to the anterior capsule when the laser attempts to cut the capsulotomy the sudden release of bubbles my change the position of the anterior capsule during the delivery of the laser shot pattern causing the laser to miss the capsule resulting in missed cuts at least partially around the circumference of the capsulotomy. To solve this problem there is provided herein a special cutting pattern that is less dependent of capsule position versus time and provides cutting of the capsule despite position changes of the capsule during the laser capsulotomy procedure. Thus resulting in substantially reduced or no missed cuts.

There is further provided herein the use of laser shot patterns having a large range of Z swept at a high rate of speed while the X Y position is moved in a circular or elliptical or other pattern or desired shape more slowly so that the laser cutting action occurs multiple times over essentially the same X Y position. Thus it could be envisioned that the laser beam is operating like the tip of a jigsaw blade moving up and down rapidly compared to the X Y positioning to create the cut shape. In this way if the anterior capsule shifts during the cut due to gas bubble propagation or any other reason the cut will still be made to the capsule albeit perhaps outside the center region of the z direction up down distribution of shots and more to the anterior or posterior ends of that distribution. For laser cutting of the nucleus where a great deal of bubble buildup is created a Z range or up down range of the cut should be approximately 1 mm in extent nominally centered on the anterior capsule which would allow approximately 475 m of capsule movement and still provide cutting of a 25 m thick capsule.

In addition to enabling cutting of a capsule that moves during the procedure this procedure can be used to compensate for static errors in capsule position due to for example measurement errors. In this way the extent of the Z range may be increased by the known error of the system.

In addition to the large Z range sweeps disclosed herein there is also contemplated the use of a smaller Z range of cut motion for the case where the uncertainty in capsule position from both static measurement error and anticipated change in position might be smaller perhaps in the range of hundreds of m or in the case of highly precise measurement data and near zero movement of the capsule during surgery. In such a case the Z range could be tens of m enough range to cut through the capsule thickness.

The Z range sweep in the capsulotomy shot pattern provides for the ability to optimize laser surgery efficiency in cataract removal procedures. Thus the nucleus of the lens can be sectioned into small volumes before the capsulotomy is performed. In this way any gas bubbles that are formed by the sectioning of the nucleus will be trapped within the capsule. By keeping the gas bubbles inside of the capsule their effect on laser delivery is reduced when compared to their effect if they escape from the capsule and migrate into the aqueous or collect and build up next to the posterior of the cornea. The detrimental effect of shooting the laser beam through a bubble increases as the distance that the beam has to travel after passing through the bubble before reaching its intended point increases. Thus by trapping the bubble in the capsule this distance is keep to an absolute minimum and thus the detrimental effect of shooting through the bubbles is similarly minimized.

The accumulation of bubbles within the capsule however increases the likelihood that the lens and or capsule will shift during the capsulotomy as the bubbles escape through the cuts in the lens capsule. As noted above this shifting could result in missed cuts and an incomplete capsulotomy. Thus the Z range sweep avoids any missed cuts from lens or capsule movement and accordingly provides the synergistic advantages of increased laser efficiency reduced detrimental effect of gas bubbles and reduced missed cuts in the capsulotomy.

Thus there is provided a system and method to optimize laser surgery efficiency in an embodiment of the invention by allowing the nucleus to be cut first and the gas bubbles formed from such cutting contained within the capsule until the capsulotomy is performed. The containing of the gas bubbles within the capsule avoids having to shoot through bubbles in the anterior chamber caused but creating the capsulotomy first. This solution however can lead to the accumulation of bubbles inside the fibrous mass of the lens which may cause the capsule to move during capsulotomy. To address this potential movement the invention further provides for the varying z direction movement of the laser beam. However it is also understood that one case where the uncertainty of capsule movement is small is the case where the capsulotomy is laser cut prior to the cutting of the nucleus material and no bubbles have been placed in the lens. In this case if the uncertainty in position is sufficiently small that the extent of the z range is sufficiently small so that only a superficial amount of bubbles may be present in the anterior chamber which may not interfere with laser cutting of the nucleus. It should further be understood that when referring to a sequence of cutting structures such as described in this paragraph that the sequence is meet when a substantial majority of the cuts are performed in the one structure before another structure i.e. the placement of a few laser shots in an other structures during delivery of the shot pattern to the first structure will not prevent the first structure from being considered the first structure in the sequence.

Further methods and systems to define a high accuracy position measurement of structures of the eye and in particular the anterior capsule so as to provide in general greater accuracy precisions and reproducibility from patient to patient for procedures on the eye and in particular capsulotomies is provided in application Ser. No. 12 509 412 Method and System for Removal and Replacement of Lens Material from the Lens of an Eye filed on Jul. 24 2009 and the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A further optimization of the method and system to enhance flexibility regarding the aspiration of lens material from the lens capsule is provided. In sectioning the lens material it is possible that some of the cut fragments of the fibrous mass may escape the capsular bag either by floating or because of gas bubbles or just naturally unless means of preventing such escape are provided. Therefore another aspect of the present method and system is to provide a means to restrain these fragments until they are ready to be aspirated out. Such a means is provided by performing only a partial cut of the capsule leaving the capsule flap attached to serve as a restraint preventing and or reducing the escape of sectioned lens material. Once aspiration is called for the partial cut to the capsule can be completed i.e. the capsulotomy is completed and the sectioned lens material aspirated out of the lens capsule.

In the laser shot patterns provided herein it is preferred that the laser shot patterns generally follow the shape of the lens and placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern are sufficiently close enough to each other such that when the pattern is complete a sufficiently continuous layer and or line and or volume of lens material has been removed. Shot spacing of lesser or greater distances are contemplated herein and including overlap as necessary to obtain the desired results. Shot spacing considerations include gas bubble dissipation volume removal efficiency sequencing efficiency scanner performance and cleaving efficiency among others. For example by way of illustration for a 5 m size spot with an energy sufficient to cause photodisruption a spacing of 20 m or greater results in individual gas bubbles which are not coalesced and dissipate more quickly than with close shot spaces with the same energy which result in gas bubble coalescence. As the shot spacing gets closer together volume efficiency increases. As shot spacing gets closer together bubble coalescence also increases. Further there comes a point where the shot spacing becomes so close that volume efficiency dramatically decreases. For example by way of illustration for a 450 femtosecond pulse width and 2 microjoules energy and about a 5 m spot size with a 10 m separation results in cleaving of transparent ocular tissue. As used herein the term cleaving means to substantially separate the tissue. Moreover the forgoing shot spacing considerations are interrelated to a lesser or greater extent and one of skill in the art will know how to evaluate these conditions based upon the teachings of the present disclosure to accomplish the objectives herein. Finally it is contemplated that the placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern may in general be such that they are as close as possible typically limited by the size and time frame of photodisruption physics which would include among other things gas bubble expansion of the previous shot. As used herein the time frame of photodisruptive physics referrers to the effects that take place surrounding photodisruption such as plasma formation and expansion shock wave propagation and gas bubble expansion and contraction. Thus the timing of sequential pulses such that they are timed faster than some of elements of or all of those effects can increase volumetric removal and or cleaving efficiency. Accordingly we propose using pulse repetition frequencies from 50 MHz to 5 GHz which could be accomplished by a laser with the following parameters a mode lock laser of cavity length from 3 meters to 3 cm. Such high PRF lasers can more easily produce multiple pulses overlapping a location allowing for a lower energy per pulse to achieve photodisruption.

The terms first second third etc. as used herein are relative terms and must be viewed in the context in which they are used. They do not relate to timing unless specifically referred to as such. Thus a first cut may be made after a second cut. In general it is preferred to fire laser shots in general from posterior points in the laser pattern to anterior points to avoid and or minimize the effect of the gas bubbles resulting from prior laser shots. However because of the varied laser shot patterns that are provided herein it is not a requirement that a strict posterior to anterior shot sequence be followed. Moreover in the case of cataracts it may be advantageous to shoot from anterior to posterior because of the inability of the laser to penetrate substantially beyond the cataract.

In there is shown the lens as seen as if looking through the pupil edge of the iris . In this figure there is provided two regions of shots and or cuts. There is provided a central region having a high cut density pattern for example of small spheres e.g. of 0.25 to 0.75 mm in diameter. This figure also has an outer region with radial cuts . These cuts act as a pre cut to the lens material in the vicinity of the iris . In this way the pre cut radials may tend to propagate out to the equator with some external applied force. This external force may be a mechanical manipulator or hand held instrument or it may be through the insertion of BSS or other safe liquid to cause the pre cuts to propagate out to the equator.

In there is shown the lens as seen as if looking through the pupil edge of the iris . In this figure there is shown a similar pattern to except the radial cuts extend through the center of the lens and are done first by the laser to assure the cutting attributes are not interfered with by any high density cuts for example spheres e.g. . It is presently preferred and believed to be advantageous to assure that the radial cuts are complete and then to make the smaller cuts like spheres in between the radial cuts. The net effect of either the patterns of 11 or 12 is to have a control region where aspiration can more easily be accomplished as a peripheral region where radial cuts may have the opportunity to be extended to the equator by the application of external force.

In there are shown a side cross section and a top cross section of a lens respectively having the same laser shot pattern. FIG. C provides a prospective relief view of the same lens and shot pattern. Thus there is shown the lens capsule . There is shown a series of elliptical radial cuts to a series of other differently shaped radial cuts only one of these cuts has been numbered for clarity . These radial cuts to a certain extent can be envisioned as is cuts made in slicing a pie. There is further shown a series of cylindrical cuts to . There is shown a capsulotomy cut .

In there are shown a side cross section and a top cross section of a lens respectively having the same laser shot pattern. provides a prospective relief view of the same lens and shot pattern. Thus there is shown the lens capsule . There is shown a series of elliptical radial cuts to a series of spherical cuts only one of these cuts has been numbered for clarity . There is shown a capsulotomy cut .

In there are shown a top cross section and a side cross section of a lens respectively having the same laser shot pattern . There is shown the lens capsule . There is shown a laser shot pattern or cut pattern having a grid pattern of vertical and horizontal cuts as viewed in the drawing of the figure . This shot pattern results in the lens being sectioned into a series of elongated rectangular rods. The shape of these rods can be sized to match or be slightly smaller than the size of the opening of the aspiration tube used to remove the sectioned lens material. Thus the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern is based upon the opening size of the aspiration tube which presently ranges from about 0.4 mm to 1 mm. The ability to match the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern and thus the size of the rectangular sections of lens material created by delivery of the shot pattern to the lens to the size of the opening in the aspiration tube enhances the ability to safely and efficiently extract the lens material during lens replacement procedures.

In there are shown a top cross section and a side cross section of a lens respectively having the same laser shot pattern . There is shown the lens capsule . There is shown a laser shot pattern or cut pattern having a grid pattern of vertical and horizontal cuts as viewed in the drawing of the figure . This shot pattern results in the lens being sectioned into a series of elongated rectangular rods. The shape of these rods can be sized to match or be slightly smaller than the size of the opening of the aspiration tube used to remove the sectioned lens material. Thus the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern is based upon the opening size of the aspiration tube which presently ranges from about 0.4 mm to 1 mm. The ability to match the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern and thus the size of the rectangular sections of lens material created by delivery of the shot pattern to the lens to the size of the opening in the aspiration tube enhances the ability to safely and efficiently extract the lens material during lens replacement procedures. In this figure there is further shown that the shape of the sectioned materials follow the shape of the anterior capsule of the lens.

In there are shown a top cross section and a side cross section of a lens respectively having the same laser shot pattern . There is shown the lens capsule . There is shown a laser shot pattern or cut pattern having a grid like pattern of circular cuts that form a series of tube like shapes . This shot pattern results in the lens being sectioned into a series of elongated tubular rods. The shape of these rods can be sized to match or be slightly smaller than the size of the opening of the aspiration tube used to remove the sectioned lens material. Thus the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern is based upon the opening size of the aspiration tube which presently ranges from about 0.4 mm to 1 mm. The ability to match the size of the rectangles in the grid pattern and thus the size of the rectangular sections of lens material created by delivery of the shot pattern to the lens to the size of the opening in the aspiration tube enhances the ability to safely and efficiently extract the lens material during lens replacement procedures. In this figure there is further shown that the shape of the sectioned materials follow the shape of the anterior capsule of the lens.

From the foregoing description one skilled in the art can readily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and or modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions.

Accordingly the invention may be embodied in other forms than those specifically disclosed herein without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive and the scope of the invention is commensurate with the appended claims rather than the foregoing description.

