---

title: Integrated sign on
abstract: A method of integrated signon is provided comprising receiving a login request to begin a desktop session, the login request comprising a first user identification and a first user password. The method comprises authenticating the first user identification and the first user password using data stored in a first authentication domain. The method comprises starting the desktop session and receiving a request from the desktop session to access an application associated with a second authentication domain. The method comprises retrieving authorization data associated with the second authentication domain from the first authentication domain based on the first user identification and the user password. The method comprises sending the request to access the application associated with the second authentication domain with the authorization data to the application associated with the second authentication domain. The method comprises the application associated with the second authentication domain authorizing the requested access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08443429&OS=08443429&RS=08443429
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08443429
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100524
---
When two or more organizations combine operations in a business merger acquisition or other transaction each organization may have a unique and specialized information technology infrastructure. Their infrastructures may comprise directory services messaging systems security policies data structures and hardware configurations that are specific to the organizations businesses and organizational structures. Their infrastructures may have taken years to develop and refine and may have cost many millions of dollars to build. Merging the information infrastructures of at least two organizations may be costly time consuming and subject to political forces within each organization. The differing organizational and business structures of merging entities internal political pressures and the significant costs involved may result in lengthy delays and complications in merging the information infrastructures of the constituent organizations. Mergers or other combinations of organizations that involve complex integrations of information technology infrastructures are not restricted to private for profit business enterprises. Hospitals governmental bodies non profit organizations universities and school districts are examples of other types of entities that merge or combine wherein resolution of information technology issues may take an extended period.

In an embodiment a method of integrated signon is provided. The method comprises receiving a login request to begin a desktop session the login request comprising a first user identification and a first user password. The method also comprises authenticating the first user identification and the first user password using data stored in a first authentication domain. The method also comprises starting the desktop session and receiving a request from the desktop session to access an application associated with a second authentication domain. The method also comprises retrieving authorization data associated with the second authentication domain from the first authentication domain based on the first user identification and the user password. The method also comprises sending the request to access the application associated with the second authentication domain with the authorization data to the application associated with the second authentication domain. The method also comprises the application associated with the second authentication domain authorizing the requested access.

In an embodiment a method of authenticating a hypertext transport protocol HTTP request for a web application is provided. The method comprises receiving a login request to begin a desktop session the login request comprising a first user identification and a first user password. The method also comprises authenticating the first user identification and the first user password using data stored in a first authentication domain. The method also comprises starting the desktop session and receiving a hypertext transport protocol request from a web browser running in the desktop session to access a web application associated with a second authentication domain. The method also comprises retrieving authorization data associated with the second authentication domain from the first authentication domain based on the first user identification and the user password. The method also comprises inserting a hypertext transport protocol header variable containing at least some of the authorization data associated with the second authentication domain into the hypertext transport protocol request. The method also comprises sending the hypertext transport protocol request to access the web application associated with the second authentication domain. The method also comprises the web application associated with the second authentication domain authorizing the requested access.

In an embodiment a method is provided. The method comprises an identity management server identifying a first application associated with a first authentication domain. The method also comprises the identity management server identifying a second application associated with the second authentication domain. The method also comprises the identity management server building a table defining authorized access to applications across the first and the second authentication domains wherein access to the first application is authorized for the second user device authenticating in the second authentication domain and wherein access to the second application is authorized for the first user device authenticating in the first authentication domain. The method also comprises the identity management server creating a first authorization data associated with the first application and associating the first authorization data with the user device entry for the second user device authenticating in the second authentication domain. The method also comprises the identity management server creating a second authorization data associated with the second application and associating the second authorization data with the user device entry for the first user device authenticating in the first authentication domain. The method also comprises the first user device authenticating in the first authentication domain and the first user device executing an instruction to start the second application. The method also comprises the identity management application determining from at least one entry in the table that the first user device is authorized to access the second application. The method also comprises the identity management application accessing the second authorization data associated with the second application and associated with the first user device and sending the second authorization data to the second application. The method also comprises the second application receiving the second authorization data and granting access to the first user device. These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure describes a system and methods of integrated signon promoting single signon to a plurality of independent domains effectively integrating the domains without placing an authorization burden on applications. The system promotes a database associated with a first authentication domain to store authorization data permitting access to software applications associated with a second authentication domain. System components enable a single integrated signon to provide access to applications associated with both domains without merging the domains. A user authenticating in the first domain with credentials linked to the stored authorization data for applications accessible via the second domain will automatically receive access to those applications without the need to authenticate with the second domain or authenticate with the individual applications. Although the user authenticates with a domain different from the domain with which the accessed application is associated the user takes no additional actions to access the application. The selected application in the second domain provides access without the need for the user to provide credentials beyond those already provided to authenticate in the first domain. Authorization data providing access to applications in the second domain is associated with authorized users that authenticate in the first domain. When the user starts one of the applications the authorization data is passed from the first domain to the application in the second domain and the user receives access.

When organizations merge users in each merging organization often need access to software applications brought to the merger by the other organizations. The users may need access sooner than the merging organizations are able to merge their directory and application infrastructures. In some cases certain applications of one of the participants in the merger are chosen as the applications that will be used by both merging organizations going forward. Examples of such applications may be employee data management applications and document management applications. A single organization created by a merger of two companies for example would not normally continue on a permanent basis to use each of the employee data management applications previously used by each of the companies. One of the two would be chosen as the application to be permanently used going forward. Users in the merging companies may need access to the critical applications fairly soon after the merger finalizes. Human resources professionals for example of the merging organizations may need to begin working closely together even before the merger is fully consummated. The professionals may not be able to wait for the two organizations to fully merge directory structures and authentication processes critical to human resources operations.

The present disclosure allows a user in a first organization to be provided access to applications available in a second organization based on authentication of the user in the domain associated with the first organization. The user in the first organization is relieved of the task of authenticating in the domain of the second organization or authenticating with individual applications associated with the second domain. Minimal or no additional processing burden is placed on the applications in the second domain. The applications associated with the second domain receive authorization data for users from the first domain. The authorization data is stored in a database associated with the first domain and provides authorization for users in the first domain to access applications associated with the second domain. When a user that has been authenticated in the first domain selects an application associated with the second domain the authorization data is sent from the database to the selected application. The selected application receives the authorization data and may then authorize the user from the first domain in a manner no different than it may authorize users that authenticate in the second domain.

Turning now to a system of integrated signon is described. The system comprises an identity management server an identity management application an authentication database authentication domains user identification records an application server applications user devices a base transceiver system and a network .

The authentication domains may be referred to as the first authentication domain and the second authentication domain respectively or may be referred to as the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain respectively. The terms authentication domain first authentication domain and primary authentication domain refer to the same component and may be used interchangeably herein. The terms authentication domain second authentication domain and secondary authentication domain refer to the same component and may be used interchangeably herein.

Domain as used herein refers to a group of computers sharing a common network resource database with a common security policy. A domain may contain one or more domain controllers that act as the resource and user manager for the entire domain. The remaining computers in the domain may be user computers and other devices or servers that provide resources to users authenticating in the domain. In an organization users may authenticate in one domain and require access to resources associated with another domain. The present disclosure teaches a system and methods for such users who may for example authenticate in the first authentication domain and require access to resources for example applications associated with the second authentication domain wherein those applications may otherwise require authorization in addition to the authentication initially provided by the user to authenticate in the first authentication domain . After the user authenticates in the first authentication domain and invokes the application associated with the second authentication domain authorization data is sent to the application that the application reads and uses to grant access to the user coming from the first authentication domain . Conversely system and methods taught herein may promote users who may authenticate in the second authentication domain and need access to resources for example applications associated with the first authentication domain wherein those resources may otherwise require authorization in addition to the authentication provided by the user to initially authenticate in the second authentication domain . After the user authenticates in the second authentication domain and invokes the application associated with the first authentication domain authorization data is sent to the application that the application reads and uses to grant access to the user coming from the second authentication domain . The present disclosure teaches the crossing of domain boundaries to access resources in another domain wherein the other domain may use a different directory structure and authentication method. The user crossing domain boundaries is alleviated of the task of securing authorization to access the application in the other domain and the application remains unaware that the user authenticated in a different domain.

The application server hosts applications . In an embodiment and in examples used herein applications are associated with the first authentication domain and applications are associated with the second authentication domain . While the applications are depicted in as executing on one application server the applications may in embodiments execute on a plurality of application servers situated at a plurality of locations.

The identity management server may be implemented by a computer system. Computer systems are described in detail hereinafter. The identity management application executes on the identity management server and promotes a user authenticating in the primary authentication domain to be provided access to applications associated with the primary authentication domain as well as access to applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . The access across domains to the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain is provided without requiring additional authentication actions by the user or special authorization steps by the applications . The identity management application may access a file or table that maps authentication information entered by the user to access the primary authentication domain to authorization data associated with access to the secondary authentication domain . The user that authenticates in the primary authentication domain is provided access to one or more applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . The authorization data permitting the cross domain access is passed from the authentication database to the applications . The authorization data links the user authenticating in the primary authentication domain with the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . The present disclosure effectively integrates at least two authentication domains for purposes of providing cross domain access to applications without requiring further action by authorized users and without placing additional authorization burden on the applications .

The mapping or linkage of the authorization data to access applications associated with the secondary authentication domain to the credentials used to authenticate in the primary authentication domain alleviates the user from having to authenticate a second time to access the applications . The authorization data used to access the desired applications in the secondary authentication domain may be stored in an area of the authentication database associated with the primary authentication domain and be associated with the directory services account of the user in the primary authentication domain . When a user that has been authenticated in the primary authentication domain attempts to execute at least one of the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain components of the identity management application may examine the user identification record for that user. The components determine if the user is authorized to access the at least one application the user has attempted to execute. This authorization may have been prearranged for the user and other users in a department for example. If this authorization is in place or can be determined the authorization data is associated with the user identification record . The identity management application may then pass the authorization data to the at least one desired application associated with the secondary authentication domain .

The authorization data may be inserted by the identity management application into a request to the application sent by the user device . The selected application will receive the authorization data and provide access to the user. These actions providing the user access across authorization authentication domains may not be apparent to the user. The selected application may require no modification to accept the authorization data and provide access to the user device . The application may not be aware that the user authenticated in an authentication domain different from the authentication domain with which the application is associated. The application may not regard users that authenticate in the primary authentication domain in a manner different than the application regards users that authenticate in the secondary authentication domain .

In an example illustrating the interactions of the components of the system a large company may acquire a small company in a merger transaction. Each company may have its own legacy employee data management application. While the merger is being consummated it may be decided that the employee data management application of the larger company will be used going forward by the resulting merged organization and that the employee data management application of the smaller company will be phased out and taken offline. Fully consolidating the information infrastructures of the two companies including authentication processes may be an extended and costly process. The two companies may use different directory structures and user authentication methodologies. Some employees in the smaller company for example human resources employees may need access to the employee data management application in the larger company upon the announcement of the merger.

In this example the employees of the smaller company log into and authenticate in the primary authentication domain . The employee data management application may be the application that is associated with the secondary authentication domain that is part of the larger company. As an alternative to waiting for the primary authentication domain associated with the smaller company to be merged with the secondary authentication domain associated with the larger company and for the applications to be reconfigured accordingly the system promotes the employees of the smaller company to authenticate in their primary authentication domain execute the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain and receive access without entering additional credentials. An employee of the smaller company may have a user identification record stored in the primary authentication domain . Because the employee needs access to the application that is associated with the secondary authentication domain the system provides for the creation of authorization data that enables the employee to access the application across domains. The authorization data promotes automatic cross domain access of the application associated with the secondary authentication domain to the employee with the user identification record associated with the primary authentication domain .

The authorization data is stored in the primary authentication domain and may link match or otherwise be specific to the user identification record and the application . The authorization data provides a cross reference between the two authentication domains . The authorization data may include credentials or other information that the application accepts to allow access to the user from the different authentication domain . In while the authorization data is depicted as inside the user identification record the authorization data is instead associated with the user identification record as is the authorization data that may for example provide the user access to the application also associated with the secondary authentication domain .

Continuing with the example and providing a converse to the described scenario it is plausible that when the larger company and the smaller company merge the applications associated with the smaller company and therefore the primary authentication domain may be chosen to survive the merger. The application may for example be a document management application. Employees of the larger company that authenticate in the secondary authentication domain may seek access to the application that is associated with the primary authentication domain . An employee of the larger company may be associated with the user identification record in the secondary authentication domain . Similar to the previous discussion authorization data permitting cross domain access to the application associated with the primary authentication domain may be stored in the secondary authentication domain and may be associated with the user identification record as depicted in . Once the employee of the larger company authenticates in his or her home domain the secondary authentication domain the employee may then access the application . The identity management application detects this attempt to access the application across authentication domains and may send the authorization data to the application . Upon receiving the authorization data the application provides access to the employee with the user identification record .

The applications associated with the secondary authentication domain provide cross domain access to the users with the user identification records associated with the primary authentication domain . Conversely the applications associated with the primary authentication domain provide cross domain access to the users with user identification records associated with the secondary authentication domain . This cross domain access in each direction is provided without the applications performing additional authorization steps. The applications are unaware of their providing access to users that authenticate in domains other than the domain with which each individual application is associated. This alleviation of authorization burden for the applications may limit additional processing load on the applications that may during the initial stages of an organization merger be already receiving unusually high usage and perhaps abnormal processing burden because of additional users some of whom may be new to the application . The authorization data providing cross domain access to applications is associated with the user identification records and stands ready to be sent to the applications when the applications are selected. The authorization data makes the cross domain access possible without the applications being made aware that the access is by a user from a different domain.

The authentication database is depicted in as containing both the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain . In an embodiment involving a scenario similar to the example described above involving the merger of two separate organizations the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain may be stored in separate databases. The applications are depicted in as stored and executing on a single component the application server . In an embodiment when two separate organizations merge the applications previously described as associated with the primary authentication domain and the applications previously described as associated with the secondary authentication domain may execute on different computers.

While the example described above used the merger of a larger company and a smaller company to illustrate the actions of the components of the system in other embodiments two or more hospitals universities government bodies non profit organizations or other types of organizations may merge. In an embodiment two or more dissimilar entities may merge or departments divisions or other units within a single organization may combine and use cross domain single signon as taught herein. The present disclosure also teaches the use of the components of the system to provide cross domain access or the effective integration of two or more domains without the requirement of two or more units or other entities effecting a merger or other organizational combination.

The use of the term primary and first in primary authentication domain and first authentication domain respectively and the use of the terms secondary and second in secondary authentication domain and second authentication domain are not meant to indicate or suggest levels of priority or importance between the two authentication domains . The use of these terms is also not to indicate or suggest the size or dominance of one merger participant versus another merger participant when an embodiment of the present disclosure involves two or more entities effecting a merger or other combination. The terms primary and first and secondary and second as used herein are solely for discussion purposes to illuminate the teachings of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure describes the first authentication domain and the second authentication domain as being similar in terms of users and their user devices authenticating and where authorized gaining access to applications associated with domains other than the domain with which the users authenticate. As noted in the preceding paragraph the use of the terms primary and first and the use of the terms secondary and second in are not meant to indicate or suggest levels of priority or importance between the two authentication domains or their associated applications . The two authentication domains are effectively treated as equals in the embodiments described herein. In an alternative embodiment one of the two authentication domains may be chosen as a primary domain and users may authenticate in this domain. A user that desires access to resources associated with both domains may first authenticate in the primary domain. The cross domain enabling data or authorization data that permits access to applications and other resources associated with the non primary domain may reside in the primary domain. The authorization data may be associated with user accounts in the primary domain that have been authorized to access the resources associated with the non primary domain. When the authorized user attempts to access the resource associated with the non primary domain the authorization data is found in the primary domain and is passed to the resource associated with the non primary domain. The desired resource associated with the non primary domain receives the authorization data and provides access to the requesting user. In this alternative embodiment the relationship may be characterized as one way in contrast to the two way relationship as described in detail in the primary embodiment taught herein.

The identity management application comprises the authentication component that receives credentials from user devices in their own authentication domains and authenticates the user devices in that authentication domain . For discussion purposes herein the user device authenticates in the primary authentication domain and the user device authenticates in the secondary authentication domain . The primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain may use the same or different directory services methodologies directory structures and authentication methods. In an embodiment either or both the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain may not use a directory services methodology to store information about users and other resources in an organization and may use other methodologies to manage these tasks. In an example the primary authentication domain may use the Active Directory implementation of directory services created by Microsoft Corporation and the secondary authentication domain may use the Open Directory implementation created by Apple Inc.

When the user of the user device logs in and provides his or her user identification and password the authentication component processes these credentials and provides access to applications associated with the primary authentication domain . The user device may not normally have automatic access to applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . Organizations operating the primary authentication domain and or the secondary authentication domain may use a commercial off the shelf software product such as SiteMinder sold by CA Inc. to manage authentication of users. The authentication component comprises elements of the commercial off the shelf software and other software components specific to the system . Components of the commercial off the shelf software may also interact with other components of the system besides the authentication component . Components of the system may make direct modifications to components of the commercial off the shelf software. Components of the system may additionally and or alternatively be written to interact with some application programming interfaces API made available by the commercial off the shelf software.

The commercial off the shelf software may assist in providing authentication services for users authenticating in the primary authentication domain or the secondary authentication domain . Authentication activities for both the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain may be unified and consolidated by the commercial off the shelf software. This may be valuable when the primary authentication domain and the secondary authentication domain use different directory services methodologies and authentication practices. The commercial off the shelf software may provide a bridging between the authentication domains when they store and organize directory objects and authenticate users in different ways as may be the case with merging organizations. The commercial off the shelf software may assist in determining the proper format for user identification and other information that may be contained in authorization data . The commercial off the shelf software may also assist in injecting or inserting the authorization data into requests generated by the user device for accessing applications across domains.

The identity management application also comprises the authorization component that provides the means to a user authenticated in the primary authentication domain to access applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . This access is provided without the user needing to provide credentials to the applications and without the applications being aware that the user has authenticated in a different authentication domain . Authorization data is stored in an area of the authentication database associated with the primary authentication domain . Authorization data permits the user authenticated in the primary authentication domain to receive access to the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . Authorization data may have been created for a plurality of users that authenticate in the primary authentication domain that need to be provided access to applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . Individual instances of authorization data may be created and stored for each individual user that is provided cross domain access to at least one application in the other authentication domain . An instance of authorization data may for example list the user identification record associated with the user of the user device and may list the application to which the user is to be provided access.

The database may contain a plurality of instances of authorization data containing combinations of user identification records and applications involving cross domain access for users authenticating in the first authentication domain accessing applications associated with the second authentication domain . The database may likewise and conversely contain a combination of authorization data and instances of user identification records allowing cross domain access for a user authenticating in the second authentication domain to access applications associated with the first authentication domain .

The plurality of instances of authorization data stored in the primary authentication domain in the database permitting cross domain access to applications may comprise a plurality of attributes associated with the secondary authentication domain . When the user of the user device has been authenticated into the primary authentication domain by the authentication component and then invokes the application associated with the secondary authentication domain the authorization component may examine a table or file. The table or file may contain a policy linking the user identification record with the application . The policy may have been previously created with many other policies like it linking other user identification records with applications . When the authorization component locates a policy permitting the requested cross domain access it may access the authorization data associated with the requesting user identification record and the requested application or it may dynamically create the authorization data . When the user of the user device attempts to access the application and it is determined that the user is authorized to be provided cross domain access to the application the authorization data may be drawn from storage in the database . The authorization data may alternatively be dynamically created based on information contained in the user identification record and in the database about the application . The authorization data may then be encapsulated in the request to access the application in an electronic cookie token or similar file that instructs the application to provide access to the user associated with the user identification record .

The identity management application also comprises the insertion component that inserts the authorization data into the request made by the user device for access to the application . In an embodiment the applications may be web based applications that are accessed by user devices using browser applications executing on the user devices respectively. The user may start the browser application on the user device and attempt to access a web based application associated with the secondary authentication domain . Once the authorization component has determined that the user is authorized for cross domain access of the application the authorization component may extract the authorization data from its storage in the database or dynamically create the authorization data . The insertion component may then insert a hypertext transport protocol header variable containing at least some of the authorization data into the instance of the browser application started by the user device . The present disclosure teaches the creation of a field in the hypertext transport protocol header of the browser application transmission the field created for the hypertext transport protocol header variable to contain the authorization data .

The insertion component that may comprise software components that interact with components of the commercial off the shelf software may recognize that the hypertext transport protocol request generated by the user device is intended for an application associated with the different authentication domain . The insertion component may effectively intercept the hypertext transport protocol transmission and examine the user agent associated with the hypertext transport protocol request. The insertion component working with components of the commercial off the shelf software inserts the hypertext transport protocol header variable into the specially created field of the hypertext transport protocol header. The insertion component designates the appropriate data from the authorization data as the variable in the field. The insertion of this data and recognition by the application permits the cross domain access to the application .

When the cross domain request is received by the application in the form of an incoming hypertext transport protocol transmission the application may examine the hypertext transport protocol header recognize the field created in the header as containing a special variable or item of data and extract the data from the field. The data extracted is the authorization data inserted into the field by the insertion component . The application reads the authorization data that instructs the application to permit the user access to the application . Because the application reads all fields contained in the hypertext transport protocol header variable of the browser transmission extracting and reading the authorization data from the hypertext transport protocol header places minimal or no additional processing burden on the application . The authorization data may be stored in a field of the hypertext transport protocol header with the name SMUSERNAME PSUSERNAME or other name. The applications accessed in the cross domain manner taught by the present disclosure may be web applications and may comprise an employee data management application a document management application and other types of applications.

The applications as described in the present disclosure are not limited to web based applications or other applications that use the hypertext transport protocol or other components of the internet protocol IP suite of protocols. In an embodiment applications may be client server based applications that do not use the hypertext transport protocol to transmit communications. In an embodiment the user device may have client software installed not shown that the user devices invoke for access to such client server based applications .

The identity management application also comprises the mapping component that may create and manage a plurality of associations between user identification records in one authentication domain and applications associated with another authentication domain wherein cross domain access as taught herein is provided. In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure two organizations may merge and a plurality of users that authenticate with the primary authentication domain may seek access to the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain . The users may seek access with minimal delay and the access may preferably be virtually seamless in appearance to the users wherein they are not requested for authentication by the applications . The mapping component may provide a listing of the user identification records in the primary authentication domain and the applications associated with the secondary authentication domain to be associated with each other and cross domain access provided. The mapping component may create a table or file in the authentication database that describe each of the associations permitted. The table or file may contain instantiations of the permitted associations and authorization data or may describe policies wherein associations are permitted. The components of the identity management application may draw upon the policies to construct authorization data when this is done so dynamically.

The mapping component may manage the files or tables containing a plurality of authorized associations of user identification records with applications . The mapping component may make adjustments or changes to the files when personnel assignments change and a user with the user identification record that previously was authorized to receive access to the application is no longer authorized to receive such access for example. In the early stages of a merger of two or more organizations such changes may be frequent. The mapping component manages the authorized associations of user identification records with applications and makes additions deletions and other changes to the authorized associations as directed.

The user devices may be desktop computers laptop computers or tablet computers. The user devices may also be portable electronic devices such as mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDA and media players.

The base transceiver station may be any of a cellular wireless base station for example a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM a Universal Mobile Communications System UMTS and or Long term Evolution LTE cellular wireless base station a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX base station a WiFi access point a femtocell or other wireless access devices. While depicts only one base transceiver station in an embodiment a plurality of base transceiver stations may be existent and in operation.

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination.

The discussion herein has described resources for example applications associated with one domain that are accessed by users and user devices that may authenticate in a different domain. The applications have variously been described as web applications accessed using web browsers wherein the hypertext transport protocol is used and user agents of the hypertext transport protocol transmissions may be modified. These disclosures do not preclude the use of other types of applications and other models of interaction between user devices and the identity management server the authentication database and the application server . Such other applications and models of interaction may for example use a socket approach to inter process communication and may not use the hypertext transport protocol for transmissions between the components of the system .

Turning now to a method is provided. Beginning at block an identity management server receives a login request to begin a desktop session the login request comprising a first user identification and a first user password.

At block the identity management server authenticates the first user identification and the first user password using data stored in a first authentication domain. At block the identity management server starts the desktop session.

At block the identity management server receives a request from the desktop session to access an application associated with a second authentication domain. At block the identity management server retrieves authorization data associated with the second authentication domain from the first authentication domain based on the first user identification and the user password.

At block the identity management server sends the request to access the application associated with the second authentication domain with the authorization data to the application associated with the second authentication domain. At block the application associated with the second authentication domain authorizes the requested access.

Turning now to a method of authenticating a hypertext transport protocol HTTP request for a web application is provided. Beginning at block an identity management server receives a login request to begin a desktop session the login request comprising a first user identification and a first user password.

At block the identity management server authenticates the first user identification and the first user password using data stored in a first authentication domain. At block the identity management server starts the desktop session.

At block the identity management server receives a hypertext transport protocol request from a web browser running in the desktop session to access a web application associated with a second authentication domain. At block the identity management server retrieves authorization data associated with the second authentication domain from the first authentication domain based on the first user identification and the user password.

At block the identity management server inserts a hypertext transport protocol header variable containing at least some of the authorization data associated with the second authentication domain into the hypertext transport protocol request. At block the identity management server sends the hypertext transport protocol request to access the web application associated with the second authentication domain.

At block the web application associated with the second authentication domain authorizes the requested access.

Turning now to and a method is provided. Beginning at block an identity management server identifies a first application associated with a first authentication domain. At block the identity management server identifies a second application associated with the second authentication domain.

At block the identity management server builds a table defining authorized access to applications across the first and the second authentication domains wherein access to the first application is authorized for the second user device authenticating in the second authentication domain and wherein access to the second application is authorized for the first user device authenticating in the first authentication domain. At block the identity management server creates a first authorization data associated with the first application and associating the first authorization data with the user device entry for the second user device authenticating in the second authentication domain.

At block the identity management server creates a second authorization data associated with the second application and associating the second authorization data with the user device entry for the first user device authenticating in the first authentication domain. At block the first user device authenticates in the first authentication domain.

At block the first user device executes an instruction to start the second application. At block the identity management application determines from at least one entry in the table that the first user device is authorized to access the second application.

At block the identity management application accesses the second authorization data associated with the second application and associated with the first user device and sends the second authorization data to the second application. At block the second application receives the second authorization data and grants access to the first user device.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory storage and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

