---

title: Systems and methods for the payment of customer bills utilizing payment platform of biller
abstract: The present invention is directed to systems and methods providing payment into a pre-existing customer account with a provider of goods or services, the method facilitated between a customer, a provider of goods or services, and a processor. The method including steps such as receiving from the customer value, identifying information of the customer, and information sufficient to identify the provider and pre-existing account of the customer; accessing a payment platform of the provider; determining information required by the provider in order to provide payment into the customer account; communicating information required by the provider in order to provide payment into the customer account; and providing a value into the customer account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566240&OS=08566240&RS=08566240
owner: e2interactive, Inc.
number: 08566240
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100826
---
This application is continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 564 474 filed on Sep. 22 2009 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 672 082 filed on Feb. 7 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which in turn is based upon U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 885 044 filed on Jan. 16 2007 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

The present invention is generally directed to systems and methods utilized to pay customer bills with third party billers or directed payees. Specifically the present invention is directed to systems and methods that avoid the typical payment channels and instead utilize the payees own payment platform.

There are numerous bill payment programs and plans ranging from recurring payment plans linked to a financial account of a customer to online bill pay offered by most major banking institutions. Such bill pay systems are often focused at the unbanked segment of the population and may provide a more efficient and inexpensive method of paying bills than prior art methods such as money orders or Western Union.

Many bill pay systems maintained and operated by payment processors require a customer to enter information regarding the account to be paid and to provide funding to the payment processor. The payment processor generally pays the bills identified by the customer through traditional methods typically a value transfer. Such value transfer is typically accomplished through the use of a billing aggregator. Billing aggregators generally gather billing records from one company and posts the records to another billing system. Typically if a customer uses bill payment processor A to pay bills to its electric company the transaction is typically as follows i customer pays money currency to payment processor A ii payment processor A pays a billing aggregator e.g. RPS Checkfree iii billing aggregator pays the electric company.

While this process is often useful for the clearinghouse capabilities offered by the billing aggregator it involves an extra value transfer and all of its accompanying fees costs charges and risks.

Accordingly a system that obviates billing aggregators is desirable. However in order to avoid the connections provided by most billing aggregators some link to the payment platform of the payee or provider of goods or services that is to be paid must be maintained and or accessed. More and more providers are moving towards maintaining their own payment platform typically accessed by customers via the interne as an additional means of accepting payment. Accordingly a system that can avoid using a billing aggregator by instead directly accessing a provider or payee s payment platform is desirable.

In addition to the drawbacks of billing aggregators most bill pay systems require a customer to fund the bill pay account in a particular manner typically with cash at the time of account set up or payment. Given the ubiquitous nature of stored value cards a bill pay system that utilizes stored value cards as payment options is desirable. However it is understood that many providers or payees may not accept stored value particularly stored value that is related to a closed loop system. Accordingly it is desirable to maintain systems and methods of accepting typically closed loop stored value from a customer but providing open loop stored value e.g. a prepaid Visa debit card number to the provider or payee.

Aspects of the invention may comprise a method of providing payment into a pre existing customer account with a provider of goods or services the method facilitated between a customer a provider of goods or services and a processor the method comprising receiving from the customer value identifying information of the customer and information sufficient to identify the provider and pre existing account of the customer accessing a payment platform of the provider determining information required by the provider in order to provide payment into the customer account communicating information required by the provider in order to provide payment into the customer account and providing a value into the customer account.

Other aspects of the invention may comprise a method of providing payment into a pre existing customer account with a provider of goods or services the method facilitated between a customer a provider of goods or services and a processor the method comprising receiving from the customer value identifying information of the customer comprising the customer s name and address and information sufficient to identify the provider and pre existing account of the customer comprising the account number of the pre existing customer account identification of an amount of payment to make to the pre existing customer account with the provider accessing by the processor and via the interne a payment website of the provider scraping the payment website in order to determine the information required by the provider to make a payment the provider acting in lieu of the customer and entering identifying information received from the customer into the payment website determining if the provider accepts payment in the form of value received from the customer upon a determination that the provider accepts payment in the form of value received from the customer conveying value received from the customer to the provider upon a determination that the provider does not accept payment in the form of value received from the customer generating a virtual prepaid debit card number and conveying the virtual prepaid debit card number to the provider and providing a confirmation of payment to the customer.

Other aspects of the invention may comprise a processor for providing payment into a pre existing customer account of a customer with a provider of goods or services the processor in selective communication with the customer and the provider the processor comprising a customer interface that provides selectable communication between the processor and the customer the customer interface configured to receive from the customer value identifying information of the customer comprising the customer s name and address information sufficient to identify the provider and pre existing account of the customer comprising the account number of the pre existing customer account and identification of an amount of payment to make to the pre existing customer account with the provider a provider interface that provides selectable communication between the processor and the provider the provider interface configured to access a payment platform or website of the provider and provide information into the payment platform or website of the provider a web data extraction module in communication with the provider interface the web data extraction module being configured to determine the information required by the provider to make a payment a processing module in communication with the customer interface provider interface and web data extraction module the processing module configured to entering identifying information received from the customer into the payment platform or website provide value to the payment platform or website.

These and other aspects will become apparent from the following description of the invention taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the invention.

Before any embodiment of the invention is explained in detail it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangements of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings.

The present invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

The matters exemplified in this description are provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various exemplary embodiments disclosed with reference to the accompanying figures. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the exemplary embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness. Moreover as used herein the singular may be interpreted in the plural and alternately any term in the plural may be interpreted to be in the singular. Reference figures preceded with S e.g. S indicates a step.

In general the present invention is directed to systems and methods of conducting a bill payment program. Specifically the present invention is directed to a bill payment program wherein a customer provides various personal and account identification information to a processor and the processor acting as the customer utilizes the payment platform e.g. payment web page of the biller to provide direct payment. The systems and methods discussed herein also provide for the processor to accept stored value as payment including closed loop stored value such as for example a Wal Mart Gift Card while providing a virtual prepaid debit card e.g. a Visa branded debit card number to the biller as payment.

With reference to a method of paying bills in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. The method depicted in is generally facilitated between a customer a processor and a biller.

The customer may be any party that is utilizing the bill payment systems and methods to make a payment. While the discussion below may be presented that the party making the payment is the same party that incurred the debt or will benefit from the payment this is not necessarily the case. In other words the bill payment systems and methods presented herein provide a means for providing payment to pre existing customer accounts with providers of goods or services. However it is contemplated that the customer providing payment to the pre existing account may not be the same party who owns or otherwise benefits from the pre existing account. An example of this may be a parent making a payment to an account held in the parent s child or dependent s name.

The processor is the party receiving communications from the customer and interacting with the biller or more specifically the payment platform or web site of the biller. While the discussion below may present the processor as a separate intermediate system it is contemplated that the processor may be associated with one or more billers or may be associated with or part of a retailer or merchant.

The biller is the party who holds the pre existing customer account. Generally speaking billers may be providers of goods or services however there may be instances where the billing and collections side of a provider may be outsourced to a separate unrelated party. The present invention is intended to cover this scenario as well and accordingly the term biller and provider of goods or services are intended to be related. A biller may be a provider of goods or services but a provider of goods or services need not be a biller. 

Communications between the customer processor and biller may be discussed below as if such communications are direct. However it is contemplated that such communications may require additional parties or devices. For example a customer may interact with the processor via the Internet telephone e.g. interactive voice recognition IVR system messaging systems e.g. short messaging systems SMS or media messaging systems MMS applications or applets running on various electronic devices point of sale terminals or devices or via merchant communications. In circumstances where intermediate devices or parties are utilized e.g. the use of a point of sale device at a merchant or merchant location settlement may occur on the normal cycle established between the intermediate party and the processor. In such circumstances there may be a period of time when the processor has made a payment but has not yet collected from customer.

An example of a customer communicating with the processor may comprise numerous channels of communication as well. For example a customer may register with the processor and provide some initial information via a first channel for example the Internet but may then request payment of the bill via a second channel for example via a merchant point of sale device and merchant to processor communication links during an in lane transaction at the merchant.

Personal identifying information may comprise information required by billers to make payments to customer accounts. For example personal identifying information may comprise the customer s name address date of birth log in information and password information.

Biller account information may comprise information sufficient for the processor to identify the particular biller and the particular account with the biller. For example biller account information may comprise an identification of a biller and the account number of the pre existing customer account. In some circumstances and in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the biller account information may be information associated with a specific device that in turn is associated with an account. For example the biller account information may comprise a telephone number of an electronic device. Such a telephone number may be sufficient to determine the provider and the customer s account number with the provider.

Funding account information may comprise information or value itself that is used to fund the bill payment transaction. Funding account information may comprise financial account information e.g. checking account information stored value account information e.g. a stored value account number or any other type of account information from which value may be withdrawn for payment.

Note that stored value typically refers to an indicia that has an associated account with value held therein. Accordingly the provision of stored value account numbers such as the account number on a prepaid Visa debit card or Wal Mart gift card may be deemed to convey value. Stored value may be defined as open loop or closed loop as one of ordinary skill in the art would understand. For example closed loop stored value may generally be redeemed by a limited number of parties often limited by the party or its representative issuing or providing the stored value in the first instance. For instance a Wal Mart gift card is a closed loop stored value card since it can only be redeemed at Wal Mart and cannot be used elsewhere. Prepaid Visa MasterCard Discover or American Express stored value cards are to be considered open loop. Although such value may only be redeemed at locations that accepts Visa MasterCard Discover or American Express the redemption location is not tied to the party issuing or providing the stored value.

At S the processor may access the payment platform of the biller directly and may provide the information required of the biller to make a payment. For example the processor may be required to provide the customer s name address and or account number.

At S the processor may provide payment to the payment platform of the biller. For example in some embodiments the processor may facilitate a direct transfer of value from the funding account identified by the customer to the biller minus any applicable fees or taxes . In some embodiments of the present invention the processor may receive value from the customer in one format and may exchange such received value for value in a format accepted by the biller. For example the customer may provide the processor with closed loop stored value and the processor may pay the biller using open loop stored value.

As can be seen from the method depicted in the processor stands in the shoes of the customer and conducts the bill payment transaction directly with the biller. The methods and systems in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention may be beneficial and advantageous to the customer because the bill payment system may conduct numerous transactions with a plurality of billers. For example the personal identifying information may be saved by the processor. Numerous biller account information with a plurality of billers may be saved by the processor. Accordingly future bill payment transactions to a plurality of billers may be conducted by a single transaction between the customer and the processor. Additionally because the processor works directly with the biller payments to customer accounts may post quicker than they would if traditional payment techniques were followed e.g. sending a check or utilizing a billing aggregator .

At S the processor may receive from the customer i personal identifying information and ii biller account information. As noted above this information may be received from the customer in any manner and via any channel.

At S the processor may receive funds from the customer. This step S may comprise the receipt of actual funds or the receipt of account information in which actual funds or value may be found. Note that a significant period of time may elapse between S and S and that the channels of communication between the customer and the processor need not be the same in S and S.

At S the processor may access the payment platform of the biller. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the payment platform may be an Internet web site through which a customer may make payments into his or her account with the biller.

At S the processor may determine information required by the biller to make a payment into the customer account. This information may be determined and collected in any manner of ways. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention this information may be collected through the use of a web scraping web harvesting or web data extraction program or module. Web scraping web harvesting or web data extraction is the process of automatically collecting and extracting information from a particular web site generally using computer software. Usually such software programs simulate human exploration of a website. A web scraping module generally collects unstructured web content and converts it into structured data that can be stored and analyzed. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention this information may be collected via an application programming interface API directly with the payment platform of the biller.

At S the processor may provide the required information to the payment platform of the biller. In some embodiments this may comprise inserting the appropriate information into requested fields on a web page such as inserting the customer s name into the field NAME or customer s account number into the field ACCOUNT NUMBER. In some embodiments the payment platform may initially require a plurality of information but for future transactions may only require a log in and password from the customer. In such circumstances either the processor establishes the log in and password or the processor receives a pre existing log in and password from the customer in S. In some embodiments the information required by the payment processor may be arranged in a requested manner and transmitted directly to the payment platform for example via an API.

At S the processor may provide value or an indicia of value to the payment platform. For example if the customer has provided the processor with bank account information the processor may facilitate a transfer from the customer s bank account to the payment platform. If the customer has provided value to the processor in a format that is not accepted by the payment platform for example in the form of a closed loop gift card the processor may exchange this received value for value that the payment platform accepts. For example in some embodiments the processor may receive value in a one format but may provide payment to the payment platform in the form of a generated open loop virtual prepaid debit card number. As a non limiting example a customer may provide payment to the processor via Wal Mart gift card the processor may then create a virtual prepaid Visa debit card fund the virtual prepaid Visa debit card with the exact amount of the payment to the biller and provide the biller with the virtual prepaid Visa debit card account number.

As a side note the generation and provision of open loop virtual prepaid debit card numbers may have additional or incidental advantages. For example in the case of a Visa branded stored value card when such stored value card is redeemed the party that issued the stored value card may be entitled to an interchange fee. An interchange fee is a fee that the recipient s bank or acquiring bank pays the issuing bank when the recipient accepts payments using card networks such as Visa and MasterCard. Often the issuing bank deducts the interchange fee from the amount it pays the acquiring bank. The interchange fee can vary but is often around 1.5 2.0 of the transaction value. Because the processor is the issuing bank the cost of the transaction is reduced by the amount of the interchange fee. This interchange fee may be used as payment to the processor for conducting the payment transaction or may be leveraged to increase relationships with various billers by reducing the interchange fee or providing off setting payments.

At S the processor may send confirmation of payment to the customer. This confirmation may be in via any communication channel and may be though not necessarily be in the same format as payment instructions were received from the customer. In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention the confirmation may be send via SMS MMS electronic mail application notification messaging on a social networking page telephone call page fax or any other communication.

In accordance with a method of facilitating the payment of customer bills utilizing the payment platform of the biller in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. At S a customer may provide information to the processor such as i personal identifying information ii biller account information and iii funding account information.

At S the processor may receive the information from the customer sent in S and may verify that the information is valid and the funding account is properly funded i.e. has value associated therewith .

At S the processor may identify the biller based on the information received from the customer and may access the biller s payment platform e.g. the biller s web site that allows payments to be received and applied to customer accounts .

At S the processor may determine the information needed to provide payment to the biller for example through the use of a web scraping web harvesting or web data extraction program.

At S the processor may provide the appropriate information to the payment platform in the appropriate format. For example the processor may fill in a web based form with blank fields or may assemble a transmission based upon a known API of the payment platform.

At S the processor may determine an amount due from the customer to the biller. This determination may be based upon information received from the payment platform such as via a communication or through the amount due being posted on a web page and the processor again utilizing the services of a web scraping web harvesting or web data extraction program.

At S the processor may determine if the amount of funding provided by the customer or associated with an account identified by the customer is greater than or equal to the amount due to the biller. Upon a determination that the amount of funding is insufficient the transaction may terminate or the processor may inform the customer of the deficiency and request either additional funding sources or a reduction in the amount of payment to make to the biller.

Upon a determination that the amount of funding is sufficient the processor may deduct the amount due to the biller or any other amount indicated by the customer from the funding account as well as any applicable fees charges or taxes. At S the processor may provide payment to the payment platform of the biller. At S the processor may confirm to the customer that a payment was made and may inform the customer of the final amount of the payment.

The form of value provided by the processor to the payment platform at S may not be the same form of value received from the customer at S. With reference to a process of determining funding options accepted by a biller as a part of a method of facilitating the payment of customer bills utilizing the payment platform of the biller in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed.

At S the processor may determine the types of funding options accepted by the biller and or the biller s payment platform. For example some billers may accept direct account transfers while other billers may only accept payment in the format of Visa or MasterCard. Some billers may accept some forms of closed loop stored value for example payment of a Best Buy line of credit may be made with a Best Buy closed loop gift card while other billers may not accept any closed loop stored value.

At S if permitted the processor may facilitate a direct value transfer from an account of the customer e.g. a financial account such as a checking account to the payment platform.

If the payment platform does not accept direct transfer of value or does not accept value in the format provided by the customer the processor may need to exchange the submitted value. At S the processor may deduct the appropriate amount of value from the customer s identified funding source. This amount may include the amount of payment plus any applicable fees or taxes.

Applicable fees or taxes may be based on several factors. There may be originating or set up fees there may be service fees associated with each account each biller and or each payment transaction. There may be fees that are applicable when a value exchange is required. Applicable taxes may be based on a plurality of factors including but not limited to the location associated with the customer account the location of the origin of the payment request e.g. an originating computer location determined by the ISP an originating point of sale device or location a location of the switch a telephone initiated payment transaction was received at etc. the location of the processor and the location of the provider.

At S the processor may generate a virtual open loop prepaid stored value card or debit card such as a Visa branded prepaid debit card. The processor may fund the virtual open loop prepaid stored value card or debit card with the exact amount of the payment transaction.

At S the processor may provide the account number e.g. virtual card number of the virtual open loop prepaid stored value card or debit card to the payment platform. At S the processor may receive confirmation of the receipt of funds by the payment platform.

With reference to a method of facilitating the payment of customer bills utilizing the payment platform of the biller in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. At S a customer may provide information to a processor. Such information may comprise personal identifying information e.g. name address etc. biller account information e.g. the name of the biller the customer s account number . Optionally at S the customer may provide to the processor financial account information to be used for future payments. For example a customer may provide information sufficient to identify and access a checking account of the customer at S.

At S the processor may receive the information and verify that the information is valid and sufficient to access payment platforms of the identified biller s and conduct payment transactions. For example as S based upon the identification of the biller the processor may consult a database or other records to determine what information is required by the biller. Alternatively at S the processor may access the payment platform of the biller and determine at S the information needed by the biller to conduct a payment transaction. This determination may be conducted via a web scraping web harvesting or web data extraction program or module.

At S the processor may compare the information received from the customer with the information required to conduct payment transactions with the payment platform. If at S the information received is sufficient the process may continue. If the information received is deficient then at S more information may be requested from the customer and the process may return to S.

Additional optional steps may be included in the process. For example at S the processor may create a customer payment account at the payment platform. S may comprise the creation or assignment of a log in and or password. A customer payment account may prevent the need to continually re enter various information for future transactions. At S the processor may inform the customer of the customer payment account and may provide the customer with the log in and or password needed for access.

At S the processor may receive a request from a customer to pay a bill. The request may comprise an identification of the particular biller that the customer wishes to pay. At optional step S the processor may access the payment platform of the biller and determine the amount owed and or due to the biller from the customer. At optional step S the processor may inform the customer of this amount.

At S the processor may receive from the customer an indication of the amount of value to pay the biller. If the customer did not provide information regarding a financial account in S or if the customer chooses not to use such financial account as a funding source at S the processor may receive value or an indicia of value from the customer.

At S the processor may determine if the value received from the customer or the funding source or financial account identified by the customer has value greater than or equal to the indicated amount of payment received from the customer in S. If the value received is not sufficient or the funding source or financial account is not funded with a sufficient amount of value at S the customer may be informed of the deficiency and the process may return to S where the customer provides a new indication of the amount of value to pay the biller.

At S if the amount value received is sufficient or the funding source or financial account is funded with a sufficient amount of value the processor may determine if the payment platform accepts value in the format provided by the customer to the processor. If the payment platform does not accept value in the format provided by the customer to the processor then the processor may generate a virtual open loop prepaid stored value or debit card number funded with or associated with the amount of payment to be made to the biller.

At S value is transferred from the processor to the payment platform of the biller. This value may be in the format provided by the customer to the provider or may be in the format of a virtual open loop prepaid stored value or debit card number.

At S the processor may provide to the customer a confirmation that a payment transaction was conducted. This confirmation may be send via any communication channel and may be in any format.

With reference to a system for a facilitating the payment of customer bills utilizing the payment platform of the biller in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. In general the system comprises one or more customers a processor and one or more payment platforms of billers . The one or more customers may communicate with the processor through any variety of communication channels such as but not limited to the Internet interactive voice recognition IVR systems messaging e.g. SMS or MMS applications or applets running on electronic devices communications from a kiosk point of sale device terminal or location etc.

The processor may comprise a customer interface a biller interface a processing module a web data extraction module a value exchange module and a database . The customer interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more customers . Because each customer may utilize a different communication channel the customer communication interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with different communication channels of different customers.

The customer interface may provide selectable communication between the processor and the customer and may be configured to receive from the customer value identifying information of the customer information sufficient to identify the provider and pre existing account of the customer and identification of an amount of payment to make to the pre existing customer account with the provider.

The biller interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more billers and payment platforms . Because each biller may require different communication attributes e.g. some billers may accept communications and payment transactions via an API others may require communications and payment transactions via a particular web site or web based payment form the biller interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with a plurality of billers.

The biller interface may provide selectable communication between the processor and the provider configured to access a payment platform or website of the provider and provide information into the payment platform or website of the provider.

The processing module may be communication with each component of the processor including the customer interface the biller interface the web data extraction module the value exchange module and the database . The processing module may be configured to perform all required determinations and calculations. For example the processing module may be configured to at least enter identifying information received from the customer into the payment platform or website and provide value to the payment platform or website.

The web data extraction module may be configured to determine the information required by the biller to make a payment. This may be performed by scraping a web page of the payment platform and determining what information is required and where to appropriately insert such information.

The value exchange module may provide a means for accepting value in a first format as provided by the customer and exchanging it for value of a second format minus any applicable fees or taxes that is accepted by the biller or payment platform. For example the value exchange module may accept closed loop stored value and exchange it for a virtual open loop stored value or debit card.

The database may be coupled to the processing module and may store the information received from the customer and may also store information pertaining to the pre existing customer account with the biller. For example if a customer payment account with specific log in and password information is established or utilized the database may store the required log in and password information in a record associated with the specific biller and the specific customer. The database may also store past transaction information which may be utilized for record keeping purposes or for recurring or periodic payments.

With reference to a system for a facilitating the payment of customer bills utilizing the payment platform of the biller in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. In general system comprises one or more customer a processor one or more billers and one or more financial institutions . The one or more customers may communicate with the processor through any variety of communication channels such as but not limited to the Internet interactive voice recognition IVR systems messaging e.g. SMS or MMS applications or applets running on electronic devices communications from a kiosk point of sale device terminal or location etc.

The one or more billers may comprise providers that sell goods or services to the one or more customers or may comprise entities separate from the providers of goods or services that perform billing functions for or on behalf of the providers. The one or more financial institutions may comprise financial institutions where one or more of the customers have financial accounts that may be used to make payments to the one or more billers .

The processor comprises a customer interface a biller interface a funding source interface a processing module a web data extraction module a web application module a value exchange module a virtual prepaid debit card generator and a database .

The customer interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more customers . Because each customer may utilize a different communication channel the customer communication interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with different communication channels of different customers.

The customer interface may provide selectable communication between the processor and the customer and may be configured to receive from the customer value identifying information of the customer information sufficient to identify the provider and pre existing account of the customer and identification of an amount of payment to make to the pre existing customer account with the provider.

The biller interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more billers and payment platforms . Because each biller may require different communication attributes e.g. some billers may accept communications and payment transactions via an API others may require communications and payment transactions via a particular web site or web based payment form the biller interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with a plurality of billers.

The biller interface may provide selectable communication between the processor and the provider or biller configured to access a payment platform or website of the biller or provider and provide information into the payment platform or website of the biller or provider.

The funding source interface may handle all incoming and outbound communications with the one or more funding sources. Because each funding source may require different communication attributes e.g. some funding sources such as financial institutions may require increased security or authorization the funding source interface may collectively identify a plurality of interfaces with a plurality of funding sources.

The processing module may be in communication with all other components of the processor . The processing module may perform all determinations necessary to conduct payment transactions as set forth in and their accompanying discussion.

The web data extraction module may be configured to determine the information required by the biller to make a payment. This may be performed by scraping a web page of the payment platform and determining what information is required and where to appropriately insert such information.

The web application module may interact with payment platform web sites of billers and may be utilized to insert the proper information into the appropriate field box or entry area in or on various billers payment platform systems. In other words the web application module may identify each piece of information requested by the provider payment platform determine the appropriate information from the identifying information received from the customer and provide in response to each piece of information requested by the provider payment platform the appropriate information. This may comprise automatically filling in an online form.

The value exchange module may provide a means for accepting value in a first format as provided by the customer and exchanging it for value of a second format minus any applicable fees or taxes that is accepted by the biller or payment platform. When the value received from the customer is to be exchanged for a virtual open loop stored value or debit card the value exchange module may interact with the virtual prepaid debit card generator . The virtual prepaid debit card generator may generate virtual debit cards that may be accepted by the billers e.g. Visa or MasterCard branded prepaid debit cards funded in an amount equal to the payment to be made to the biller.

The database may be coupled to the processing module and may store the information received from the customer and may also store information pertaining to the pre existing customer account with the biller. For example if a customer payment account with specific log in and password information is established or utilized the database may store the required log in and password information in a record associated with the specific biller and the specific customer. The database may also store past transaction information which may be utilized for record keeping purposes or for recurring or periodic payments.

It will be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention shown and described herein are exemplary only. Numerous variations changes substitutions and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance processor may be maintained or managed by a financial institution funding source merchant or biller. Accordingly it is intended that all subject matter described herein and shown in the accompanying drawings be regarded as illustrative only and not in a limiting sense and that the scope of the invention will be solely determined by the appended claims.

