---

title: Modulated microwave microscopy and probes used therewith
abstract: A microwave microscope including a probe tip electrode vertically positionable over a sample and projecting downwardly from the end of a cantilever. A transmission line connecting the tip electrode to the electronic control system extends along the cantilever and is separated from a ground plane at the bottom of the cantilever by a dielectric layer. The probe tip may be vertically tapped near or at the sample surface at a low frequency and the microwave signal reflected from the tip/sample interaction is demodulated at the low frequency. Alternatively, a low-frequency electrical signal is also a non-linear electrical element associated with the probe tip to non-linearly interact with the applied microwave signal and the reflected non-linear microwave signal is detected at the low frequency. The non-linear element may be semiconductor junction formed near the apex of the probe tip or be an FET formed at the base of a semiconducting tip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266718&OS=08266718&RS=08266718
owner: The Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 08266718
owner_city: Stanford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100216
---
This application claims benefit of provisional application 61 208 135 filed Feb. 20 2009 incorporated herein by reference.

The invention is supported in part by the Center for Probing the Nanoscale CPN of Stanford University under National Science Foundation grant no. PHY 0425897 and is also supported by Department of Energy contracts DE FG033 01ER45929 A001 and DE FG36 08GOU7994.

The invention relates generally to microwave microscopy including modulating the interaction of the microwave radiation with the sample. In particular the invention relates to microwave probes particularly useful for imaging with atomic force microscopy.

Two important technologies for imaging microscopic features particularly on a generally planar substrate such as an integrated circuit include atomic force microscopy AFM and microwave impedance microscopy. In AFM a nanometer scale probe tip is dragged or tapped along a surface and its deflection is measured to thereby determine the topography of the surface that is to image its physical contour. In microwave impedance microscopy for example as explained by Kelly et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175 incorporated herein by reference a microwave probe is scanned over the surface of a sample and the microwave electrical impedance of the sample is measured to thereby image the impedance of the sample for example the pattern of conductive interconnects on a dielectric layer for which the physical contour is not of primary importance. In some implementations the microwave probe is imbedded in a dielectric pad to protect it from damage during scanning contact but the geometry decreased the resolution of the microwave measure. On the other hand exposed microwave probes dragged along a surface are subject to erosion and the wear decreases their lifetimes. Conventional microwave probes also suffer from low signal to noise.

One aspect of the invention includes a cantilevered microwave probe tip positionable over the sample with a pointed probe electrode at its distal end and connected via one or more transmission lines to the cantilever mount and system electronics in which a ground plane is established at the bottom of the cantilever overlying the sample. Another ground plane can be established over the top of the cantilever or the transmission line may be laterally surrounded by two grounded lines.

Another aspect of the invention includes a microwave microscope in which the microwave interaction between the probe electrode and the sample is modulated at or near the probe electrode.

In one embodiment the microwave microscope operates in spatial modulation mode in which the probe electrode is oscillated over the sample and the interaction of the probing microwave signal with the sample is detected as a reflected microwave signal and a differential of the detected signal is determine at two vertical separations of the probe from the sample. This mode is similar to the tapping mode in atomic force microscopy AFM except that the tip sample spacing need not be so small that the cantilever mechanically deflects whereby sample damage is significantly reduced.

The spatial modulation may be driven at a modulation frequency near the resonant frequency of the cantilever to be approximately sinusoidal and the derivative of the reflected microwave signal with respect to the modulation frequency is electronically derived.

In a slow spatial modulation at a modulation frequency substantially below the resonant frequency the probe tip is vertically controlled to two separation distances from the sample and the reflected microwave signal is differenced between the two separations.

The modulated microwave microscope may be combined with an atomic force microscope to provide supplemental positioning or to allow different types of imaging of a sample.

In another embodiment a non linear electrical element is associated with the probe tip no farther than 10 of the cantilever length from the probe tip. Probing signals at a microwave frequency and a different frequency perhaps another microwave frequency or a much lower frequency are applied to the interaction area to generate non linear components including sidebands at the sum and difference of the two frequencies. Thereby the non linear component modulates the primary microwave signal according to the second signal. The sidebands are electronically detected by use of frequency sensitive electronics such as mixers and lock in amplifiers referenced to the two probing frequencies.

The non linear element may be the interaction of a metal probe tip and a semiconductor sample or vice versa or other structure forming a semiconductor barrier Alternatively the probe tip may include a Schottky barrier or a semiconductor coating on a metal probe tip or a p n junction formed by semiconductor layers of opposite conductivity types at the probe tip. A semiconductor probe tip of one conductivity type may have its base formed in a semiconductor well of the opposite conductivity type to produce a gate conduction channel and forming a field effect transistor with gain.

Another aspect of the invention includes probe having a conically shaped metallic probe tip conformally coated with a dielectric layer of a conically shaped shell and having a grounding sheath surrounding the dielectric shell.

One aspect of the invention overcomes a difficulty experienced with the cantilever probe of the sort described by Kelly et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175 arising from the structure that the two electrical leads extend along the length of the cantilever and are relatively long. In their co planar strip line configuration the two leads of the strip line are subject to significant noise and parasitic capacitance particularly to the underlying sample. In an embodiment incorporating this aspect of the invention a microwave probe illustrated in plan view in which is approximately to scale includes a cantilever about 100 micron wide and 500 micron long and attached on its proximal end to a mount and including on its distal end a probe end with a probe tip projecting generally perpendicularly from the cantilever. The cantilever and mount may be formed from a silicon chip by techniques generally used in the integrated circuit industry as explained in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175 and by Lai et al. in Atomic force microscope compatible near field scanning microwave microscope with separate excitation and sensing probes vol. 78 no. 63702 5 pp. 2007 incorporated herein by reference. The mount is fairly rigid and is attached to support equipment while the cantilever from which the underlying chip is removed is relatively thin preferably less than 20 microns and more preferably less than 10 microns so that it readily flexes and easily bends for example over 10 or 15 .

The cantilever as illustrated in the cross sectional view of taken along the section line of includes a lower dielectric layer on which are formed two conductive traces extending along the cantilever . An upper dielectric layer is conformally coated over and between the traces such that the dielectric layers sandwich the traces . A front conductive layer is generally conformally coated on the upper dielectric layer on the front side of the cantilever which is typically oriented downwardly towards the sample. An optional back conductive layer may coat the back side of the cantilever which is typically oriented upwardly away from the sample. The conductive layers act as grounding planes to the traces . The conductive layers and traces may be formed of aluminum by sputtering. The structure may be formed by first coating the optional unpatterned back conductive layer on an unpatterned silicon chip depositing the bottom dielectric layer of SiNto a thickness of about 2 microns by low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD depositing a metal layer with about 1 micron of aluminum and patterning it to 10 micron lines with 60 micron spacing to form the traces depositing the top dielectric layer of SiNto a thickness of 2 microns by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD and finally depositing 0.5 micron of aluminum to form the front conductive layer .

Near the probe end as illustrated in the cross sectional view of taken along section line of a 2 micron dielectric pedestal of SiOis deposited by PECVD. A 2 micron via is etched through the pedestal and the upper dielectric layer to reach a trace contact connected to one trace . Platinum may be deposited by focused ion beam FIB to form a pointed electrode with a length of about 3 microns and having a base with a diameter of about 1 micron and a conical section with a full width angle of about 15 tapering inwardly to an apex with a radius of less than 100 nm which determines the lateral resolution of the microscope. The FIB fabrication relies upon a focused beam of energetic ions incident upon the sample surface which is simultaneously exposed to a usually organic precursor to provide the reaction energy necessary to drive the chemical vapor deposition process. Alternatively the conical section of the pointed electrode can be formed as a pyramidal section that is anisotropically etched from monocrystalline silicon or other semiconductor to produce a more durable tip.

After fabrication of the layered structure the cantilever and mount are masked off and the exposed portions etched away. The silicon underlying the cantilever is then selectively etched away from its backside for example with KOH to form the cantilever projecting from the mount . Further details of the fabrication of the probe are found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175.

The two grounded conductive layers and signal carrying traces may form two transmission lines since the separation between the traces is much greater than their separation from the conductive layers . Also the double grounding reduces the amount of noise coupled into the long metal signal traces or strips extending along the cantilever especially the strip carrying the small microwave signal reflected from the sample. The noise in large part arises from stray capacitance to the sample underlying the cantilever and the resistance of the metal traces. Although separate metal strips and electrodes may be used for the excitation and reflected signals a single metal strip connected to the single probe tip in conjunction with a directional coupler at the receiver is advantageously shielded by the dual grounding planes. An optional grounded guard ring around the probe tip may provide added isolation or such as a ring may serve as one of separate probe and sensing electrodes as described by Lai et al. in the aforecited article and in Modeling and characterization of a cantilever based near field scanning microwave impedance microscope vol. 79 no. 063703 6 pp. 25 Jun. 2008 incorporated herein by reference.

In an alternative structure illustrated in the cross sectional view of taken along section line of the backside metal is patterned into a signal trace and two parallel ground planes separated from the signal trace by gaps . Because the gaps are much smaller than the thickness of the dielectric layer the two ground planes in conjunction with the intermediate metal trace provide a flattened version of a coaxial cable. A backside dielectric layer may encapsulate the patterned metal .

Both structures interpose a ground plane between the one or more signal traces and the sample. The bottom ground plane extends axially with the traces over at least 90 of their length along the cantilever exposed over the sample and extends laterally if not over the entire width of the cantilever then over a width at least ten times the sum of the width of the trace and the thickness of the intervening dielectric thereby effectively grounding the trace and restricting the interaction of the probe with the sample. As a result the probe is much less susceptible to noise and capacitive coupling to the sample and is sampling only a small area of the sample adjacent the probe tip rather than interacting with over a much large area of the sample underlying the major portion of the cantilever. Therefore the probe of the invention is capable of more accurately measuring more localized effects.

Other probe tip configurations may be used. For example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175 the sharp tip electrode determining the microscope s resolution may be surrounded by a nearly co planar annular electrode and separate transmission lines connect the two electrodes to the electronic control circuitry. The probe microwave signal may be applied to either of the electrodes and the microwave signal picked up by the other electrode is returned as the reflected signal to the control circuitry.

An improved probe tip illustrated in the cross sectional view of includes a dielectric sheathing at least 100 nm thick over much of the conical portion of the pointed electrode and a thinner conductive layer at least 50 nm thick over the sheathing which is connected to the front side metal . Assuming that the front side is grounded the conductive layer also acts as a grounding shield for most of the pointed electrode . Further the dielectric sheathing acts to strengthen the very fragile apex . It is possible for the dielectric sheathing to even cover the apex with a very thin portion without significantly degrading the resolution of the probe tip.

The dielectric layers are preferably made of a strong low stress material such as LPCVD silicon nitride or boron nitride preferably at least 1 micron thick to minimize the capacitance between the conductive layers. The upper dielectric layer may be a less strong material such as PECVD silicon nitride allowing a lower fabrication temperature. The tip is preferably made of monocrystalline silicon which may be anisotropically etched to form a sharp tip with a diameter of 50 nm or less. Such an etched tip may have a trigonal or rectangular shape with three or four pyramidal sides depending upon the crystalline orientation. Alternatively the tip may be made of a hard metal such as titanium tungsten or chromium and formed by anisotropically etching a hole in a silicon layer and filling it with metal. In the latter configuration the fabrication process first forms the tip in a silicon layer then sequentially deposits the first metal the dielectric and the second metal and finally moves the initial silicon layer.

Although the description and claims refers to microwave signals reflected from the sample this is an operational description indicating the direction of information flow from the sample back to the system electronics. The sample is in the very near field of the microwave probe tip. Changes in the reflected signal are caused by changes in the impedance mismatch at the end of the microwave transmission line introduced by resistive and dielectric characteristics of the sample adjacent to the probe tip and do not necessarily imply a reflection at the surface of the sample.

Previously known microwave microscopes effectively measured one or more characteristics such as resistivity and dielectric constant by resolving the real and imaginary in phase and out of phase components of the microwave signal reflected from the sample. That is they measured the magnitude of the two microwave vector components. However such measurements are plagued by noise stray capacitance between the probe and the sample temperature changes equipment drift and common mode signals with the microwave probing signal.

According to another aspect of the invention the microwave microscopy system modulates the interaction of the microwave probing signal with the sample and accordingly demodulates the reflected signal to detect the modulated interaction that is the AC component of the reflected signal or sample characteristic rather than the DC component. The modulation may be a spatial modulation or an electrical modulation. The spatial modulation may be an analog modulation of the separation between the probe tip and the sample so as to continuously varying the interaction between the probe and sample or a digital variation such as sampling the reflected signal at two different interaction regimes. The differentiation resulting from analog spatial modulation or differencing resulting from digital spatial modulation removes a large portion of the effect of stray capacitance low frequency noise and common mode signal. However the differential signals are low so that high efficiency probes such as those described above are advantageously used. The modulation should produce more than just a linear response to a variation of the signal level applied to the sample but should result in either change in the type of interaction or a non linear response of the probe signal.

One method of modulating the microwave interaction with the sample is to operate the microwave probe in space modulation mode. That is during sampling during the scan the tip of the probe is oscillated in the vertical direction to typically repetitively tap the sample surface in a continuous or analog pattern. The microwave signal detected from the sample is demodulated and preferably phase detected according to the frequency of the spatial modulation frequency. In a time demodulation embodiment to be described later the position of the probe tip is varied between a sensing position very close to the sample and a reference position widely separated from the sample. As will be shown later the capacitance between the probe tip and sample varies with the separation between them so that the spatial modulation varies the impedance experienced by the microwave probe signal in interacting with the sample.

Space modulation mode in microwave microscopy is similar to tapping mode widely practice in atomic force microscopy AFM in which the tapped mechanical tip or stylus oscillates very close to the sample surface perhaps even touching it as the tip is scanned over the sample in order to measure the typography of the surface. In AFM tapping mode the AFM tip needs to be close enough to the surface that the tip is deflected by the sample tip interaction typically less than 5 nm. However in spatially modulated microwave microscopy the vertically oscillating probe tip preferably does not physically contact the sample because the surface is being characterized according to the slope of the spatial capacitance curve as the tip vertically oscillates above the sample surface rather than a physical deflection as the tip encounters the sample.

A spatially modulated microwave microscope system illustrated in the block diagram of includes a microwave probe for example the previously described probe having a probe electrode interacting with a sample . An XY positioner supporting the probe determines the x and y positions and possibly the coarse z position of the probe electrode relative to the sample . However a piezo electric transducer is interposed between the XY positioner and the probe to provide fine control of the z position of the probe tip . In this embodiment of tapping mode operation a low frequency source provides an oscillatory signal which may be sinusoidal or square wave at a low frequency fto a driver that applies a drive signal to the piezo electric transducer and hence the vertical position of the probe electrode . It is typical for the low frequency fto be at or near the mechanical resonant frequency of the cantilever of the probe tip for example about 140 kHz to thereby minimize the drive power delivered to the piezoelectric transducer . However the probe can be engineered for different resonant frequencies for example between 30 and 300 kHz. It is possible for the x y positioning and the coarse z positioning to be performed by a stage upon which the sample is supported so that the piezo electric transducer may be rigidly supported within the system as it controls the fine z positioning of the probe . A system controller controls the XY positioner and possible coarse z positioning and further controls through the driver the amplitude of the piezo electric drive signal and hence the amplitude of the probe oscillations. It is also possible for the system controller to provide an analog DC or very low frequency signal to the input of the driver which sums the two input signals to thereby provide both an oscillatory and fine z positioning of the probe .

A microwave source outputs a signal at a microwave frequency f for example 1 GHz to a microwave circuitry which outputs a microwave probe signal to the probe and receives a reflected microwave signal. A microwave signal may be considered any electrical signal at a frequency of greater than 100 MHz typically between 500 MHz and 10 GHz. By the use of directional couplers and mixers in the microwave circuitry a single microwave transmission line may be used between the microwave circuitry and the probe and only one of the probe traces is used for the microwave signals although grounds and other shielding lines are advantageously included as has been described for the above described probes. In the usual configuration the transmission line is a 50 ohm coaxial cable having a center conductor carrying the microwave signal and a cylindrical outer conductor that is grounded and connected to the principal signal ground of the probe.

For optimum sensitivity an impedance matching network is needed in close proximity to the probe to match the high tip sample impedance to the standard 50 ohm impedance of the one or more coaxial transmission lines . A example of a matching network illustrated in the electrical schematic of includes a quarter wavelength coaxial cable having a length of one quarter of a wavelength of the microwave radiation for example about 5 cm. Its outer sheath is grounded and its inner conductor is connected on the probe end through a lead to a contact of a sensor chip supporting the cantilevered probe tip . Parasitic capacitance of about 1 pF is associated with the lead . The end of the inner conductor of the quarter wavelength coaxial cable away from the probe is microwave grounded through a capacitor of about 12 pF and connected to the inner conductor of the coaxial transmission line thereby maximizing the microwave signals at the tip . The sheaths of the two coaxial transmission lines are connected together.

Returning to the microwave circuitry may include a microwave mixer mixing the reflected microwave signal from the probe with the unmodulated microwave signal from the microwave source to produce a signal representing the microwave amplitudes of the in phase and quadrature microwave signals having amplitudes I and Q and their variations at frequencies much lower than the microwave frequency f. The I and Q amplitude signals are delivered to two frequency sensitive detectors such as lock in amplifiers referenced to the low frequency space modulation frequency signal at ffrom the low frequency source to produce the respective differentials of the in phase signal I and the quadrature signal Q relative to the tapping frequency f. Although it is possible to obtain both in phase and out of phase signals relative to the space modulation frequency in a simpler approach the phases of the lock in amplifiers are set to the maximum amplitude which corresponds typically to the closest approach and variations in the phase signal are ignored. The lock in amplifiers may be replaced with detector systems sensitive to a very narrow bandwidth around the space modulation frequency.

The theory of operation of the spatially modulated microwave microscope will be described with reference to the diagram of in which a static capacitance curve represents the capacitance Cat microwave frequencies between the probe tip and the sample in arbitrary units along the vertical axis as a function of the separation d between the tip and sample in arbitrary units along the horizontal axis. The general scale is that capacitance Cis measured in attoFarads and the separation d in tens of nanometers. An oscillating position curve shows the low frequency time oscillation of the tip sample separation d caused by the vertical tapping of the probe induced by the piezo electric transducer . An oscillating microwave capacitance curve shows the low frequency time variation of the microwave tip sample capacitance Cdetected by the microwave circuitry . The oscillating position curve is generally sinusoidal with an amplitude A about an operating point of the static capacitance curve . The oscillating microwave capacitance curve is a distorted sinusoidal about a value determined by the operating point . The in phase lock in amplifier measures the amplitude of the oscillating microwave capacitance curve referenced to the spatial modulation frequency which can be considered to be the derivative dC dd of the static capacitance curve at the operating point . If the static capacitance curve were nearly linear the lock in amplifier would measure the slope of the static capacitance curve at the operating point . The second derivative can be measured by demodulating at twice the spatial modulation frequency 2f or more precisely the lock in amplifier would measure the difference between the area of the oscillating capacitance curve above the operating point and the area below the operating point .

Similar curves can be constructed for the imaginary portion of the capacitance that is the conductivity as detected as the out of phase component Q and measured by the out of phase lock in amplifier . It is understood that depending upon the phase introduced in the microwave mixing the in phase and out of phase components can be switched between capacitance and conductivity. The amplitude of the oscillating separation curve depends on the gain of the piezo electric driver and the operating point is determined by the fine vertical input to the piezo electric driver both controlled by the system controller .

The spatially modulated microwave microscope system of is an analog system based in part upon the resonant oscillations of the probe cantilever. A more digital detection system is possible. For example the low frequency source can be replaced by a square wave pulser outputting a drive signal at a drive frequency f which controls the oscillation of the piezo electric transducer and the lock in amplifiers can be replaced by time domain demodulators locked to the pulser to detect the value of the microwave amplitudes output by the mixer at predetermined phases of the oscillation. Assuming that the drive frequency fis near the resonance of the cantilever the oscillating position curve of remains close to sinusoidal. One type of time domain demodulators integrates with respect to the same zero value the positive portions and the negative portions of the oscillating capacitance curve of oscillating about the operating point and differences the positive and negative portions. Operation is simplified if only selected portions the capacitance curve are integrated in each half cycle for example over a phase window for example of 30 to 120 nearest the positive and negative peaks relative to the 180 of a half cycle but the sampling phase window needs to be the same for the positive and negative portion. If the drive frequency fis 140 kHz the full cycle is about 8 microseconds well within the capabilities of simple electronics.

An example of a digital time domain demodulator for either the I or Q quadrature signal is illustrated in the electrical schematic of . The system controller receives the modulation drive signal at fand accordingly controls the circuitry over the cycle. An inverter receives either the I or Q signal which remain non inverted on a bypass line . The controller controls analog gates receiving respectively the inverted and non inverted quadrature signals. The inverted gate is opened during the sampling phase window for the negative portion of the quadrature signal and the non inverted gate is opened during the sampling phase window for the positive portion. During other time periods the gates are closed to isolate the remainder of the circuitry from the quadrature signal.

The outputs of the gates are combined on the input to an integrating amplifier including an integrating capacitor and parallel zeroing gate in a feedback path around the integrating amplifier . The controller closes the zeroing gate for a short period at the beginning of a full cycle to enable operation of the integrating amplifier . During one half cycle the integrating amplifier integrates onto the capacitor the non inverted quadrature signal passing the opened analog gate during the other half cycle it integrates onto the capacitor the inverted quadrature signal passing the opened analog gate . Because of the time multiplexed inversion of the quadrature signal the integrating amplifier also differences the signals received in the two half cycles. At the end of a full cycle and between the two sampling phase windows the controller opens a transfer gate to transfer the signal on the integrating capacitor to a storage capacitor coupled to the output by a sample hold circuit . After the charge transfer the controller closes the transfer gate and opens the zeroing gate to zero the charge on the integrating capacitor and then closes it to begin the next measurement cycle. The output of the sample and hold circuit which is refreshed every cycle outputs every sample period the difference signal for the I or Q quadrature signal. If desired these outputs can be averaged over several cycles if the probe tip is probing the same area of the sample over several tapping cycles. Other circuitry may be used to align phases of the mechanical spatial modulation and the time domain demodulation.

Spatially modulated microwave microscopy may be implemented on commercially available AFM equipment enabled for tapping mode AFM such as from PacificNanotech by substituting a microwave probe tip with associated electronics for the conventional AFM sylus tip. In spatially modulated microwave microscopy the vertically oscillating microwave tip preferably lightly touches the surface as it laterally scans over the surface but alternatively may vertically oscillate slightly above the surface. The operating point for the vertical motion may be determined by use of the laser sensor associated with the AFM probe to detect its vertical deflection as it mechanically interacts with the sample via electrostatic van der Waals and mechanical forces or by an initial calibration relating the derivative observed from the lock in amplifier to the tip sample separation. Successful operation of the spatial modulation mode microwave microscope and some details of its fabrication have been reported by Lai et al. in Tapping mode microwave impedance microscopy vol. 80 no. 43707 3 pp. 27 Apr. 2009 incorporated herein by reference. The spatial modulation microwave microscope showed much less instrumental drift than contact microwave microscope and readily detected 1 micron silica lines buried under 50 nm of alumina.

Further experiments have demonstrated the operation of the microwave microscope for imaging features under water using a shield probe but no spatial modulation. Further improved resolution is expected with spatial modulation. As a result the microwave microscope may be applied to in vitro and in vivo biological and histological samples. Its high sensitivity should allow the study of dynamic biological behavior such as depolarization association with axon members and metabolic processes. Further because the probe tip is not dragged across the sample the inventive microwave microscope can be applied to soft tissue.

In the resonant sinusoidal space modulation mode the microwave signals sharply increases as the probe s closest trajectory approaches the sample and then at closer trajectory or touching the signal no longer increases but saturates. Monitoring of the second harmonic 2f is particularly effective whether measuring impedance or measuring topography as will be described later.

On the other hand at sufficiently low spatial modulation frequencies less than the resonant frequency called slow space modulation mode the vertical position of the probe tip can be established by the system controller and microwave measurements are taken at that position. An exemplary frequency for the slow space modulation mode under automated control is 400 Hz but other frequencies for example 10 kHz and lower may be used with conventionally engineered probe tips. In this type of slow space modulation mode the probe tip is positioned at two different heights one close to or contacting the sample and the other significantly above and the two measurements are differenced so as to significantly reduce noise and common mode effects. The digital measurement circuitry of can be adapted to the slow space modulation mode in which digital control signals replace the square wave pulsed reference signal at 140 kHz. In slow space modulation mode the AFM laser sensor can monitor the probe cantilever as it approaches the sample. During the approach there is initially an attractive force then a repulsive one. The laser sensor monitors the deflecting force and accordingly controls the tip position to be close to the sample.

As explained with reference to either the time demodulation or the slow spatial modulation effectively measures the static capacitance Cat two points on the static capacitance curve and then differences the two values. In view of the sharp increase in the static capacitance as the probe approaches the sample and assuming one measurement is taken close to the sample and the other relatively far away the differential value effectively represents the capacitance Cnear the sample with the noise drift and common mode signal averaged out in the differencing.

Since the operating point mean vertical position can be controlled separately from the sensing it is possible to operate the microwave microscope in two distinctive regimes. In a rough scanning mode the probe tip is oscillated at a significant distance from a sample and a fast lateral scan provides a rapid scan of large areas with reduced spatial resolution. In a fine scanning mode perhaps performed after the rough scanning mode has identified features of interest the probe is lowered closer to the sample and a slower more methodical scan provides a more highly resolved but slow scan of the tiny features.

It is understood that the microwave microscope is most useful in a scanning or imaging mode in which the probe is scanned over the sample to image the electrical characteristics of the sample at microwave frequencies in a simple example imaging a metal line in a dielectric substrate. However the differencing requires that the two or more measured values be performed at substantially the same location of the sample. More particularly the spatial modulation frequency or rate or sampling rate is much greater for example by a factor of ten than the lateral speed divided by the spatial resolution to be achieved by the microscope.

The above described space modulation modulates the microwave coupling based on the instantaneous spacing between the probe tip and sample and the signal modulation is generally non linear with the spacing. Absent the variable spacing the conventional microwave microscope with a typical electrically linear probe has difficulty separating the desired reflected signal from the sample probe interaction and the much larger excitation signal or spurious interactions between the microwave transmission lines and their environment.

The above described spatially modulated microwave microscopes rely upon the modulation of the interaction between the microwave signal and the sample by mechanically moving the probe tip vertically above the sample. Similar modulation can be achieved electrically by relying upon a non linear microwave circuit element and passing both the microwave sampling signal at f for example 1 GHz and another signal at a different frequency fthrough the non linear element which produces sidebands at f f and then measuring the sidebands at the detector. Both signals may be microwave signals and the lower frequency sideband is then detected. While a microwave signal at fmay increase the sensitivity the circuitry is simplified if fis much lower than the microwave frequency f for example less than 10 of the microwave frequency fbut preferably an RF frequency more than 1 MHz to increase the non linear signal. Advantageously the non linear circuit element is positioned near the probe tip for example no farther from it than 10 of the cantilever. Thereby the parasitic capacitance along the cantilever has relatively little effect on already established sidebands rather than on the larger microwave signals traversing the cantilever. Whatever signals are capacitively coupled into the reflected signal on the transmission line in the cantilever do not pass through the non linear element and hence are canceled out in the frequency locked detection circuitry. Mechanical vertical oscillation tapping is not required and the more conventional microwave microscope systems of U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 175 may be used with suitable inclusion of a non linear element and additional electrical circuitry.

An example of a non linearly modulated microwave microscope system illustrated in the electrical circuit of modulates the non linear circuit element associated with the probe tip and measures a signal produced by the non linear interaction to determine electrical characteristics of the sample. The output of the high frequency microwave source at frequency fis split by a divider and then combined in a combiner with the output from an RF source at frequency f. Exemplary frequencies are 1 GHz for fand 10 MHz for f. However as mentioned before the second frequency fmay also be a microwave frequency but different from the first by a sideband frequency which is detected. The combined signals pass through a directional coupler to the coaxial transmission line and thence to the matching circuit adjacent the probe which supplies the combined signal to the probe tip including its non linear element. The reflected signal including its non linearly generated sideband passes back through the matching circuit and the transmission line and the directional coupler directs it through a 25 dB microwave amplifier to an IQ mixer also receiving the unmodulated microwave source signal at ffrom the microwave source . The IQ mixer produces through a heterodyne circuit two quadrature mixed signals that are 90 out of phase and which include DC components RF components and higher harmonics of f. To compensate for drifting in the phase of the signals due to temperature or other changes in the cables and electronic components a feedback loop on one of the mixer outputs controls a phase shifter for the reference signal at fto the IQ mixer so that the DC and RF components appear in the in phase signal at 0 . The two quadrature signals I and Q pass through respective high pass filters and RF amplifiers and are demodulated in two RF mixers also receiving the unmodulated RF signal at ffrom the RF source . Their outputs represent the real and imaginary parts of sample electrode interaction.

The non linear element usable with the non linearly modulated microwave microscope system of may be a semiconductor barrier formed at the interface between a metal and doped semiconductor such as silicon which operates as a Schottky diode and may be highly non linear.

In the case where a doped silicon feature is being probed a Schottky diode is formed between a metal probe tip and the doped silicon feature. Although the circuitry of may be used in this case the low frequency RF signal may be applied directly to the silicon feature and the microwave signal is applied to a metallic microwave probe tip such as the previously described platinum tip. The microwave signal reflected back from the probe especially the Pt probe tip will contain the non linear sideband produced in conjunction with the RF signal impressed on the sample.

Alternatively if a metallic structure in a sample is being probed the low frequency signal may be applied to the metallic structure and the microwave probe signal is applied to a probe tip composed of doped silicon. Even if a non conductive dielectric feature is being probed the capacitance across the sample is much larger than that between the probe tip and the sample so that the sample surface will follow the modulating voltage. Again the signal reflected back from the probe will contain the non linear sideband.

Yet further the Schottky structure can be formed on the probe tip. As illustrated in the cross sectional view of a pointed non linear electrode includes a doped monocrystalline silicon body with a pyramidal portion and apex . A metal layer for example of tungsten is conformally deposited around the apex . Alternatively a non linear effect is also obtained if a paraelectric layer is substituted for the metal layer . The paraelectric layer may also be applied to a metal pointed electrode. The paraelectric such as a ferroelectric material such as LiNbO exhibits a non linear dielectric constant and hence capacitance varying with applied voltage and hence non linearly couples the metal probe body to the sample. The paraelectric layer is preferably not doped.

A complementary Schottky structure of a pointed non linear metal electrode and a doped monocrystalline silicon coating is difficult to achieve.

A pointed bipolar electrode illustrated in the cross sectional view of includes the doped silicon body of one conductivity type and tip region of the opposite conductivity type separated by a p n junction underlying the apex and preferably in the pyramidal region . The structure is readily formed utilizing the fact that the pyramidal region is formed by anisotropic etching of monocrystalline silicon. To obtain the illustrated structure the unetched monocrystalline silicon is formed of two epitaxial silicon layers of opposite conductivity types with the p n junction between them formed at a depth corresponding to the p n junction in the pyramidal region of the etched pointed electrode .

A pointed transistor probe illustrated in the cross sectional view of provides gain as well as non linearity. A pointed silicon electrode terminating in an apex is epitaxially formed over a silicon substrate of a first conductivity type n for example or which is substantially insulating. The silicon electrode is formed of the first conductivity type n for example and the same conductivity type extends to a gate region underlying the pointed electrode . The pointed silicon electrode terminates in an apex and may be formed by anisotropic etching of monocrystalline silicon. A well region of an opposite second conductivity type p for example is formed around and under the gate region to create a thin channel region which is thin enough that its lateral conductivity can be modulated by the voltage of the gate region . Gate and source contacts S and D are connected to portions of the well region to form a field effect transistor FET whose gate is interacting with the sample according to the measured the non linear transconductance across the principal electrodes S and D. The transistor probe needs at least two signals lines on the cantilever one for a properly DC biased microwave probe signal applied to the pointed electrode and another for the microwave signal monitored on the drain D assuming a grounded or DC biased source S.

The described embodiments for modulating the coupling of the microwave radiation can alternatively be described as modulating the coupling of the exciting signal according to a modulation signal e.g. the 400 Hz or 140 kHz tapping signal or the 10 MHz heterodyne signal with a non linear element and demodulating the reflected signal according to the same modulation signal.

The microwave probe of the invention can advantageously be used for tapping mode atomic force microscopy AFM primarily directed to plotting the topography of a sample. In conventional AFM the probe tip experiences little interaction with the sample over most of the oscillation cycle for example only when the tip is within about 5 nm of the sample. Conventionally the probe position is monitored with a laser directed at the cantilever and typically measure the effective contact of the tip with the sample. Although tapping mode AFM can profile a soft sample it still deleteriously contacts the sample. If the microwave probe tip of the invention is applied to AFM profiling there may be a substantial microwave interaction of the tip with the sample over the entire tapping cycle as the long range electrical fields are being monitored. As a result the microwave signal can be used to monitor the probe height and vertically position the tip over the feature to be profiled. Once the static capacitance curve of has been established for a type of sample the AC differential quadrature signal can determine the tip height even if the tip is relatively far from the sample so that the microwave signal can be used to position the tip above the sample without any laser feedback system. However the laser deflection can be used to more accurately define the topography in some situations since the AFM may more precisely determine the surface profile by the laser measured deflections of the cantilever. Alternatively a fast microwave scan can determine not only the regions of interest but also the approximate height before a slower AFM focuses on the regions of interest for a more accurate measurement of local topography.

The combination of microwave microscopy and AFM also allows more rugged probes than those typically used in AFM since they are made extremely compliant in order to sense very small cantilever deflections thus making them very fragile. Using the microwave signal for coarse positioning

An example of such an enhanced AFM system includes a laser source irradiating the flexible cantilever supporting the probe tip from the mount . An optical detector detects light reflected from the cantilever and provides a signal to the system controller indicative of the deflection of the cantilever as it encounters the sample surface. The piezo electric transducer vertically oscillates the cantilever near its resonance. The system controller also provides a DC signal to the piezo electric transducer to control the mean height of the probe tip over the sample. These functions are available on commercially available AFM systems. Additionally according to this aspect of the invention the microwave source provides a signal to the microwave circuitry to send a microwave probe signal to the probe tip . The microwave circuitry extracts at least one sideband of the reflected microwave signal and outputs it to the lock in amplifier or alternatively a time domain demodulator . The demodulated signal is supplied to the system controller as part of the control of the AFM circuitry. Of course the system can be further enhanced to provide full microwave imaging as provided in as well as full AFM functionality.

The non linear microwave tips can also be advantageously used with AFM to solve problems arising from stray capacitance that affect measuring either topography or impedance from the strength of the microwave signal. When the tip is more than a tip diameter away from the sample surface approximately 50 nm most of the microwave signal arises from the sample topography. The tip needs to be quite close to the sample for a least part of a tapping cycle to be able to distinguish the sample topography from the electrical properties of the sample.

The shielded probe and the signal differencing of the microwave microscope both significantly reduce noise and other instrumental effects thus increasing the sensitivity and resolution of the microwave microscope. Particularly in combination they enable microwave microscopy of new types of samples in the medical biological and real time industrial inspection. Further the probe need not significantly touch the sample so soft samples and production products may be inspected without damage.

