---

title: Determining advertising effectiveness outside of a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system or other user registration site builds a log of exposures by users to advertisements outside of the user registration site to determine their effectiveness. For each user exposed to an advertisement, a log entry is created indicating that the user has been exposed to the advertisement. Tracking pixels are embedded into advertisements that, when accessed, enable the social networking system or user registration site to log access to the advertisement by the user. From the log files, the user registration site identifies exposed users and selects unexposed users with similar demographics and/or behavior information to generate a control group. The two groups can be surveyed about the advertisement to determine its effectiveness. The user exposure information also can be used to retarget advertisements, to measure advertising effectiveness on connections of exposed users, and to measure actions of exposed users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874639&OS=08874639&RS=08874639
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08874639
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
This invention relates generally to social networking and more particularly to determining advertising effectiveness among social network users for advertisements outside of a social networking system.

To determine the effectiveness of advertising typically polls are issued to groups of people exposed to an advertisement or an advertising campaign and to a control group of people not exposed to the same advertisement or campaign who may be similar in other respects. However in the context of users of a social networking system and advertising exposure outside of the social networking system often there is not a readily available way to determine the exposed and control groups.

In a typical social networking system such as a social networking website users set up their user profiles and then establish connections with other users of the social networking system. The users often provide information about themselves expressly to the social networking system such as demographic information and or a list of the users interests. Users may also provide information about themselves implicitly to the social networking system through their actions on the system and interactions with other users. In this way a social networking system can obtain a rich set of social information about its users which may be used in a great many ways to enhance a user s experience online.

Users of a social networking system may be exposed to various online advertisements. If they occur within the social networking system these exposures may be tracked by the social networking system. The social information about the users maintained by the social networking system may provide a rich set of data about the users and their exposures. However advertisers typically cannot leverage this social information in the contact of advertising impressions that occur outside of the social networking system and thus cannot use the information to determine the effectiveness of advertising.

To assess effectiveness of advertisements outside the domain of a social networking system or other user registration site the social networking system or registration site builds a log of exposures by users to advertisements outside of the social networking system or user registration site. For each user exposed to an advertisement a log entry is created indicating that the user has been exposed to the advertisement. To build the log tracking pixels are embedded into advertisements on web pages provided by third parties. When a user accesses an advertisement including a tracking pixel the tracking pixel enables the social networking system or user registration site to log access to the advertisement by the user.

In one embodiment the tracking pixel accesses a cookie on the user s device from which it retrieves a user identifier and sends it to the social networking system or user registration site along with identification of the advertisement viewed. According to another embodiment upon the user accessing the advertisement the tracking pixel initiates a request from the user device for the associated image from the social networking system or user registration site and sends a social networking system cookie or user registration site cookie stored on the user s device along with the request. From the request the social networking system or user registration site determines the associated user. The social networking system or user registration site logs access to the advertisement by the user. From the log files for various users who have accessed the advertisement the social networking system or user registration site determines exposed users and users not exposed who have similar demographics and or behavior information to generate a control group. The two groups are surveyed about the advertisement to determine its effectiveness.

The user exposure information may also be used to retarget advertisements based on whether a user has been exposed to the advertisement or based on the number of impressions for the user. For example an advertiser can use the advertisement exposure information to determine whether to serve another advertisement to a particular user based on whether multiple exposures to the same advertisement are desired or whether a second advertisement should be provided to a user exposed to a first advertisement.

The advertising exposure information may also be used for measuring advertisement effectiveness on connections of exposed users e.g. by discussion of the advertisement between the user and the user s connections outside of the social networking system or user registration site.

The data also can be used to measure actions of exposed users within the social networking system or user registration site that relate to the advertising to which the user was exposed e.g. liking or commenting on a product that is the subject of an advertisement to which the user was exposed. These actions provide another possible measure of the effectiveness of the advertisement beyond just a survey.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the user device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The user device is configured to communicate with the third party website and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the user device displays content from the third party website or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the third party website or from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page including a tracking pixel that can read a cookie provided by the social networking system or can redirect the browser to the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data.

In one embodiment the user device also includes a cookie including data indicating an identifier of a user account associated with the user of the device identifying the client device itself and or whether the user is logged into the social networking system . The cookie indicates whether the user of the computing device is involved in an active session where the user device exchanges data with the social networking system allowing modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device . Use of the cookie in exchanging data between the user device the social networking system and or the third party website is further described below in conjunction with .

The third party website comprises one or more web servers including one or more web page advertisements which are communicated to the user device using the network . The third party website is separate from the social networking system . For example the third party website is associated with a first domain while the social networking website is associated with a separate social networking domain. A web page advertisement included in the third party website comprises a markup language document identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content as described above. In one embodiment a web page advertisement includes a tracking pixel comprising instructions that when executed by a browser application of a user device retrieve the user account identifier from the cookie or redirects the browser to the social networking system using the client device identifier to determine an associated user identification from the social networking system . The user account identifier whether provided to the social networking system directly or derived from the social networking system cookie provides a mechanism for the social networking system to associate the web page advertisement with the user. Hence the tracking pixel allows a web page advertisement from the third party website to access a user identifier associated with a user of the client device for associating the advertising content with the user account identifier by the social networking system which then stores the association in a log.

The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing a social network or mapping of a social graph comprising a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. The social networking system is further described below in conjunction with . In use users of the social networking system add connections to a number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend or the term a connection refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . As indicated above the system alternatively could use a user registration site of a different type to provide the functionality described herein using the example of a social networking system.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking systems based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user friend and connection depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system. These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in a third party website separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via a network .

The social networking system is also capable of connecting a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as third party websites or other entities through an API or other communication channels.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data content and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

As described above in conjunction with the social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles describing the users of a social network. The user profiles include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests location and the like. The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more client devices and or one or more third party websites via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more client devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more third party websites to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server also may allow third party websites to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. For example a third party website sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the third party website via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user and communicates the collected data to the third party website . The data communicated includes survey result data according to one embodiment. In some instances the API request server may create and provide information for a third party website to include a tracking pixel as described herein within a web page advertisement provided on the third party website .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions allowing the social networking system to track various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social network that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user or other actions interacting with another user. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the action log .

Additionally user actions may be associated with an entity outside of the core social networking system such as a third party website that is separate from the social networking system website . For example the action logger receives data describing a user s interaction with a third party website from the web server . Examples of actions where a user interacts with a third party website includes a user expressing an interest in a third party website or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses a third party website or a web page within the third party website a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with a third party website a user attending an event associated with a third party website or any other action by a user that is related to a third party website . Thus the action log may include actions describing interactions between a social networking system user and a third party website that is separate from the social networking system .

Some actions taken with respect to a third party website separate from the social networking system are logged separately according to one embodiment. For example an ad exposure log includes information associated with user exposure to a web page advertisement provided by a third party . When a user accesses a web page advertisement and that exposure is reported to the social networking system the ad exposure log records the user identifier the advertisement identifier and the time and date of the access. In addition other information may be logged such as an identifier of the ad placement an identifier of the ad creative a friend count for the user whether the user liked an associated brand page user interests and interest categories etc. Alternatively the ad exposure log may be included within the action log . The ad exposure log may be accessed by the control group generator and other aspects of the social networking system for using the data stored therein.

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications third party websites or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. For example the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications all third party websites specific third party websites or all external systems. One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entries comprise an enumeration of entities for example the user may select a list of third party websites that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all third party websites to access the user s work information but specify a list of third party websites that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list. External systems such as third party websites belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Note that the various combinations of granularity of specification of information and the granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible i.e. all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends third party websites and or other applications and entities. For example a third party website that attempts to access a user s comment about a URL associated with the third party website must get authorization from the authorization server to access the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user a third party website an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user. For example the authorization server uses a users privacy setting to determine if the user s comment about a URL associated with the third party website can be accessed by the third party website . This enables a user s privacy setting to specify which other users or other entities are allowed to receive data about the user s actions or other data associated with the user.

The control group generator is a means for building advertising control groups within the social networking system according to one embodiment. The control group generator is configured to interact with other aspects of the social networking system such as the ad exposure log and the demographic and behavioral information store . The control group generator uses information in the log files to determine which users have been exposed to a particular web page advertisement and can access demographic behavioral and or information for exposed users or can use the information to determine users who are similar to each other based upon their demographic behavioral and or social information. The control group generator can select subsets of users from all users from exposed users from users connected to the user and from sets of users determined to be candidates for a control group of users not exposed to a particular web page advertisement either through random selection or by applying rules to determine the subset. In this way the control group generator can determine and candidate control group and ultimately a control group of users who were not exposed to a web page advertisement that other users with similar characteristics were exposed to to determine advertising effectiveness. For example the control group generator may select users who have connections to an exposed user as the candidate control group for estimating any effect on those connections based on the user viewing the advertisement e.g. by discussion of the advertisement between the user and the user s connections outside of the social networking system .

The surveys or the user impression information itself can be used for example for retargeting the advertisement based on a user s past impressions for the advertisement for richer reporting about an advertising campaign or other modifications of the original advertisement.

Additionally the social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact using the social networking system . To maintain this data the user account store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user account store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user account store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to third party websites or connections to other entities. The connection stores may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting further described above to regulate access to information about the user. In addition the connection store may be accessed by other aspects of the social networking system e.g. the control group generator to obtain information about a user s connections for determining any effect of an advertisement on the connections of a user exposed to the advertisement.

The demographic and behavioral information store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s demographic data behavioral data and other social data which may be mined from the other logs and stores of the social networking system . Demographic data typically includes data about the user such as age gender location etc. e.g. as included in the user s profile. Behavioral data typically includes information about the user s activities within the social networking system such as specific actions posts likes comments etc. activity levels usage statistics etc. Other social data comprises information about the user from within the social networking system that isn t demographic or behavioral such as interests or affinities whether a user is trusted by the social networking system etc. The demographic and behavioral information store data can be accessed by the control group creator or other aspects of the social networking system .

In order to assess effectiveness of advertisements outside the domain of the social networking system or user registration site tracking pixels are embedded into advertisements on web pages provided by a third party . The information for embedding the tracking pixel is received by the third party from the social networking system user registration site. Each time a client device accesses a web page advertisement including a tracking pixel the tracking pixel enables the social networking system or user registration site to log access to the web page advertisement by the user associated with the device . In one embodiment the tracking pixel accesses a cookie stored on the browser by the social networking system or user registration site from which is retrieves a user identifier associated with the user of the client device and sends the identifier to the social networking system or user registration site along with identification of the web page advertisement . The social networking system or user registration site logs access to the web page advertisement by the user associated with the user identifier. According to another embodiment upon download of the web page advertisement the tracking pixel requests the image associated with the tracking pixel from the social networking system or user registration site and sends with the request a cookie stored on the browser by the social networking system or user registration site the social networking system or user registration site responds with the image to complete rendering of the web. The social networking system or user registration site determines the user account associated with the cookie and logs access by the user to the web page advertisement . From the log files the social networking system or user registration site determines users exposed to the web page advertisement and those not exposed but with similar demographics and or behavior information. The social networking system or user registration site can use these two groups to provide surveys about the advertisement with the unexposed group acting as a control group. The surveys may be provided by the social networking system or user registration site or by the third party .

In one embodiment the existence of cookie in the browser indicates that the user of the computing device is a user of the social networking system e.g. whether the user has a valid user account with the social networking system . If the user of the computing device is a user of the social networking system the cookie may contain information indicating whether the user is logged into the social networking system e.g. whether the user has a current valid session with the social networking system . Thus the cookie may be used by the social networking system to authenticate the user session. In other embodiments the social networking system may determine only whether the user is a user of the social networking system e.g. by checking for an existence of a cookie without determining whether the user is logged into the social networking system . Although cookies are described herein for authenticating the user and or the user session any other methods of user or session identification or authentication may be used such as recognizing a physical token .

At a later time as indicated by wavy lines a user device requests a web page advertisement from a third party website . For example a user of the client device enters a uniform resource locator URL or other identifier associated with the web page advertisement into a browser application operating on the user device e.g. by typing in the URL or selecting a link to the page . The browser application identifies the third party website associated with the received URL or other identifier and requests the web page advertisement associated with the received URL or other identifier from the identified third party website .

After receiving the request for the web page advertisement the third party website generates the requested web page advertisement . The third party website includes in the web page advertisement a tracking pixel for providing tracking information about users of the social networking system . The tracking pixel is an embedded object that is an invisible single pixel gif which when executed by the browser application of the client device retrieves information from the cookie for providing to the social networking system . For example the tracking pixel may embed using a tag where GOTO represents a URL or instructions or both and 1 1 is the size of the tracking pixel i.e. it is invisible to the human eye . The third party website generates a markup language document describing the content and formatting of the web page advertisement which includes the tracking pixel and which is sent to the client device for rendering by the web browser . The tracking pixel reads the cookie and sends an identifier associated with the user of the client device to the social networking system along with identification of the web page advertisement . The social networking system then creates a log entry for the identifier indicating that the user associated with the identifier has viewed the web page advertisement .

In the embodiment shown in steps through are the same as described in conjunction with . However the tracking pixel is different. In this example the tracking pixel is an embedded object that is an invisible single pixel gif for which the associated image is hosted on the social networking system . For example the tracking pixel includes a URL or other web page identifier associated with the social networking system and the location of the image associated with the tracking pixel within the social networking system . Thus when the web page advertisement is rendered by the browser a request is sent to the social networking system for the image and the cookie previously stored by the browser is sent to the social networking system unchanged as part of the request along with an identifier of the web page advertisement . The social networking system responds to the request with the invisible pixel image and the browser completes the rendering . From the cookie the social networking system determines the associated user and logs an entry indicating that the user has accessed the web page advertisement .

Thus for each user exposed to the web page advertisement a log entry is created identifying the web page advertisement and the user. The user is identified by a user account in the social networking system which is either received directly from the client device e.g. because the tracking pixel has read it from the cookie or is ascertained from the cookie received from the client device . The user associated with the client device is the user logged into the social networking system at the time the web page advertisement is accessed or if no user is logged in the user most recently logged into the social networking system via the client device .

Next the social networking system builds a control group of users of the social networking system not exposed to the web page advertisement from the log files. An exposed subset of users of the social networking system is determined based on the log entries of advertising exposures and a candidate control group of users is generated by comparison of the demographic and behavior information between selected users of the social networking system and the exposed subset of users. Any users from the candidate control group exposed to the web page advertisement are eliminated yielding a control group of users not exposed to the web page advertisement .

Next the demographics and behavioral information for the subset of exposed users is used to determine a candidate group of unexposed users with similar information. First using the stored demographic and behavior information the social networking system retrieves a list of users with similar information to those exposed to the advertisement from which a candidate control group can be determined . However because the comparison is to users of the social networking system generally the candidate group might include some users who have in fact been exposed to the advertisement. Thus the social networking system then retrieves information about whether any of the candidate control group have been exposed to the advertisement who are removed from the group to create the control group of unexposed users. The exposed and control groups then can be surveyed to determine the effectiveness of the advertisement.

In another embodiment the exposure information can be used to retarget advertisements based on whether a user has already been exposed to the advertisement or based on the number of impressions for the user. For example an advertiser can use the advertisement exposure information to determine whether to serve another advertisement to a particular user of the plurality of users. The determination can be based on various intentions of the advertiser such as whether the advertiser wants to send the advertisement again to an exposed user to send the advertisement only to unexposed users or to provide a second related advertisement only to users who have been exposed to a first advertisement.

The advertising exposure information can also be used for measuring advertisement effectiveness on connections of exposed users which may happen by discussion of the advertisement between the user and the user s connections within or outside of the social networking system. For example in one embodiment the system determines exposed users as discussed above and then surveys the effects on the friends of those exposed users thereby measuring the indirect effects of an advertisement.

In another embodiment instead of using surveys the effect of the advertisements can be measured in terms of the actions of the exposed users within the social networking system that relate to the advertising to which the user was exposed. Such action may include for example liking or commenting on a product that is the subject of an advertisement to which the user was exposed. These actions provide another possible measure of the effectiveness of the advertisement.

In addition the surveys or the user impression information itself can be used to provide richer reporting about an advertising campaign or as a basis for other modifications of the original advertisement.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. For example in one embodiment the computer readable storage medium contains a markup language document for being rendered by a web browser application executing on a computer system. In this embodiment the markup language document comprises information items encoded in a markup language comprising instructions for rendering information from a third party website in a web browser application as well as instructions to a web browser application to retrieve information associated with a user of a social networking system as described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

