---

title: Methods and systems for soliciting an answer to a question
abstract: A question-and-answer application with an “ask-to-answer” feature is described. The ask-to-answer feature enables any user to solicit an answer to a question from another user. Upon soliciting another user for an answer to a particular question, a message with a call to action is directed to the solicited user. The message may include a copy of the text of the question and may provide a mechanism (e.g., a selectable user interface element) enabling the solicited user to pass on answering the question. Subsequent to the solicitation, the question page for the question will include a notification with information about the solicitation, including in some instances information identifying the user who has been asked to answer the question and the number of times the user has been asked to provide an answer to the question.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08516379&OS=08516379&RS=08516379
owner: Quora, Inc.
number: 08516379
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101231
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing techniques. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for enhancing the quality of user generated content for presentation via a question and answer service by enabling users of the service to directly solicit an answer to a question from another user.

Many on line or web based applications and services rely partially and in some cases almost entirely on user generated content that is content generated by the end users of the particular application or service. The success of such applications and services is heavily dependent upon the ability to attract and retain users who are willing to participate by generating content that is to be shared with other users. One particular type of application or service for which this holds true is an on line question and answer service. In general a question and answer service is a service that allows its end users to post questions post answers to questions or simply browse the questions and answers that others have posted. From the perspective of its users the usefulness of a question and answer service or application depends significantly on the extent to which meaningful answers are provided to the questions being posted.

Methods and systems for enabling a user of a question and answer service to directly solicit an answer to a question from another user are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

A question and answer application or service provides an on line forum where users can post questions post answers to questions or simply search for and review questions and answers that others have posted. To aid in the overall organization and presentation of information a question can be associated with one or more topics representing for example a subject matter to which the question relates. Take for example the question What is the population of San Francisco This question may be assigned to the topic San Francisco. As users post questions for others to answer users can designate each question as being related to one or more existing topics or users can create and designate new topics. As such a question and answer application is an information repository of user generated content that is organized and presented in a relatively simple and intuitive manner. An individual web page showing all questions related to a particular topic may be referred to as a topic page whereas a web page showing an individual question and any associated answers to the question is generally referred to herein as a question page.

To encourage users to share and exchange information and to increase overall participation in a question and answer application a question and answer application may enable users to share information with one another. For example the user interface of a question and answer application may include a user interface element e.g. a button or link that when selected prompts the viewing user to provide contact information e.g. a name an email address a telephone number of a user with whom the information is to be shared. Any number of communication mechanisms might be used to share information in this manner to include but certainly not be limited to email instant messaging SMS or text messaging some proprietary messaging system as well as any other similar messaging systems. In some instances the message communicated to the user will contain a copy of the actual content. In other instances the message may simply include a selectable link e.g. a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or Uniform Resource Locator URL to the relevant content. In this manner a first user may share with a second user an unanswered question a question for which there are one or more existing answers a particular answer to a question or some other related item of information.

In one particular scenario a first user may share a question with a second user whom the first user believes to be particularly well suited to provide an answer. Stated differently a user may share a question with another user with the expectation that the receiving user provide an answer to the question. However while sharing information in this manner is certainly useful it may or may not actually encourage or persuade a user to take a particular action such as to provide an answer to a question. For instance if a user receives a private and direct message from another user such that the message includes a question or a link to a question the recipient may choose to simply ignore the message and not provide an answer to the question.

Various aspects of the inventive methods and systems described herein aim to increase the likelihood that a user when requested to answer a particular question will be encouraged to actually provide an answer. For example consistent with some embodiments of the invention when a user solicits an answer to a question from another user the message communicated to the other user includes a specific call to action requesting that the recipient of the message provide an answer to the question. In some instances the message may be formatted to include a copy of the actual text of the question a link to the question page for the question as well as a user interface element such as a text input box in which the recipient can enter or input his or her answer to the question. In addition consistent with some embodiments when a first user solicits an answer to a question from a second user the solicitation is made public. For example subsequent to the solicitation the question page for the question will include a notification displayed next to or near the question indicating that a particular user has been solicited for an answer to the question. The notification may also include for example a name and picture of the user who has been solicited to answer the question. Selecting the name and or picture of the user who has been asked to answer the question may cause some portion of the user s profile or biographical information to be displayed. If several users have solicited a particular user for an answer to the same question the notification may indicate the number of times that the particular user has been solicited to answer the question. In some embodiments the notification may also identify the individual user or users who have solicited the recipient for an answer. This information may be displayed in connection with the notification or as a result of detecting a certain event such as a mouse over event. Other aspects of the inventive subject matter are set forth below in connection with the description of the various figures.

The concept of following may be thought of as a unilateral relationship because it can be achieved at the desire of only one user. This is in contrast to the concept of two users being connected e.g. in a social networking context which typically implies a personal relationship between the users. Two users may be connected when each user is following the other a bilaterally defined relationship. In some embodiments of the invention the interactions that the users are allowed to have with one another may be controlled to some extent by the type of relationship that exists between the users as that relationship is defined by the question and answer service or some externally hosted social network service. For instance with some embodiments a first user may only solicit an answer to a question from another user if the first user is following the other user or if the first user is being followed by the second user. Similarly with some embodiments the first user may only be allowed to solicit an answer to a question from another user if the users are connected that is each user is following the other. In yet other embodiments users may be able to solicit an answer from one another regardless of any pre existing system defined relationship between the users.

In some embodiments of the invention notifications may be communicated to a user by simply including the relevant content in a landing page or data feed displayed to the user. For example when a user first provides his or her authentication information e.g. username password the user may be presented with a personalized home page or landing page with content that is customized for the user. This content may be selected to include information regarding the users topics and questions that the particular user is following. Additionally in some embodiments notifications may be communicated in near real time to a user via any number of messaging mechanisms to include real time dynamic data feed updates e.g. on a web page email SMS or text messages instant messages and others. In some embodiments a user may elect to be notified of certain activities or events on a per question per topic or per user basis. For instance a user may elect to receive a notification when a new answer is posted to a particular question that the user is following.

Referring again to a topic may have a wiki summary that provides a summary or some additional description of what subject matter is encompassed by the particular topic. Similarly a question may have a wiki summary that provides some description or additional context for the question. In some embodiments the wild summary for topics and questions may be user editable by all users while in other embodiments only certain users will have the authority to edit a wiki summary. For instance in some embodiments only the person who posted a particular question may be authorized to edit the wiki summary for that particular question. In some embodiments users may be assigned roles that determine various content or access privileges the users have with respect to different topics or questions. For instance certain users may be assigned an editor role for a particular topic thereby providing those users with editing privileges that are different from those of a regular user.

In addition to a wiki summary a question is associated with one or more answers . For instance after a user posts a question other users of the application are able to provide answers to the question. In some embodiments of the invention any user is allowed to post an answer to a particular question. As such a question may be associated with or have multiple answers. In some embodiments both questions and answers may have comments. For instance a user may provide a textual comment that is associated with a question or an answer . A comment associated with an answer for example could provide some clarification about a particular answer or some aspect of the answer. Other users can then view the comments when viewing the question and or answers.

In some embodiments of the invention an answer has or is associated with votes . For example users can vote up or vote down a particular answer based on whether the user finds the answer helpful in view of the particular question. For instance if a user believes that a particular answer to a question is a good answer the user can select a button or other graphical user interface element to vote for the answer. Similarly if a user believes that a particular answer is not helpful in light of the question the user can vote down the answer for example by simply selecting a button or other graphical user interface element to indicate that the answer is not helpful. As described in greater detail below with some embodiments when a first user solicits an answer to a question from a second user and the second user provides an answer the first user s solicitation may be automatically converted to a vote for the answer provided by the second user. In some embodiments the number of votes for and against an answer are used as inputs to an algorithm that determines how answers are to be displayed when presented to a user. For example the votes for and against an answer may simply be tallied such that a vote for the answer offsets a vote against the answer and the answers with the highest vote tallies are displayed in the most prominent positions typically at the top of a list of relevant answers. With some embodiments a vote by a particular user may be deemed as more important for example as based on the particular user s profile information and as such the particular user s vote may be given more weight than a vote by other users.

By providing a forum that includes questions answers comments and votes the question and answer application encourages meaningful discussion about a whole host of subject matters in part by enabling users to interact with the application in a variety of ways. For instance some users may desire an entirely passive experience and can therefore simply browse for and read questions and answers on topics of interest. Some users may desire an experience including a moderate level of participation and as such these users can vote up or down various answers on topics of interest and possibly provide commentary. Others may desire to participate more actively and will elect to post questions and answers to questions particularly when specifically called upon to do so by another user.

As illustrated in a client computer executes a web browser application to access the web based question and answer application. In various alternative embodiments the client computer may be a mobile computing device to include a laptop mobile phone or tablet computer. As such in some embodiments the application may have a user interface that is customized for display in a browser or mobile application of a mobile device. Furthermore with some embodiments the client based application may not be browser based but instead may be customized to suit the particular operating system of the device on which it is executing. For instance a customized application may utilize one or more application programming interfaces that are unique to the particular device and operating system on which the customized application resides and executes.

The question and answer application logic is shown in to include content posting logic ask to answer logic and messaging and notification logic . In general the content posting logic enables users to post questions answers and comments and other content items. The ask to answer logic facilitates a feature referred to herein as an ask to answer feature. Accordingly the ask to answer logic enables various functionality associated with enabling a first user to solicit another user for an answer to a question that has already been posted. The messaging and notification logic operates in conjunction with the content posting logic and the ask to answer logic to facilitate the generation and communication of messages and notifications for example such as those that may pertain to the solicitation of an answer to a question. Of course the application logic may include a number of other logical components to perform a variety of other tasks and functions beyond the immediate scope of the present inventive subject matter. As such to avoid obscuring the inventive subject matter in unnecessary detail these various functional components have not been included in .

In some embodiments some of the various functional components of the question and answer application including some of the various software modules may be distributed across several server computers providing application reliability and scalability. For instance as illustrated in the database management server is shown to reside on a separate server computer. However in other embodiments the database management server might reside and execute at the same server as the application logic and web server . In any case the database management server facilitates the writing and reading of data stored in tables of a database . In some alternative embodiments other data structures may be utilized in addition to or in place of database tables.

Consistent with some embodiments the question and answer service is a stand alone service accessible via its own unique address e.g. URL or URI . With some embodiments the stand alone service may leverage its own social layer or a social layer provided by an externally hosted social network service. Accordingly various relationships between users as determined or defined by the question and answer service or an externally hosted social network service may be utilized to customize the functionality and features of the question and answer service. For example certain interactions between users may be controlled based on the relationships that exist between the users as those relationships are defined by an externally hosted social network service. Alternatively with some embodiments the question and answer service may be one of several applications or services that are associated with and provided by a social network service. For instance the question and answer service may be accessible via the same address or domain by which users access a social network service such that the question and answer service is hosted by the same entity providing the social network service.

Referring again to at method operation the question and answer service detects an event or interaction with the user interface element e.g. element in by a user e.g. USER A . For example in some embodiments when a user selects the button or link on the question page that enables the user to solicit an answer to a question from another user the selection is detected by the question and answer service when a request is communicated from the client application e.g. a web browser application to the server on which the question and answer service resides enabling the server to respond by manipulating the user interface displayed at the client application. When the selection of the user interface element is detected at method operation the question and answer service prompts the user to provide some user input identifying another user to whom the question is to be directed. For example in some embodiments a text box or some other user interface mechanism for receiving input is displayed. This is illustrated in and described in connection with which show an example of a user interface that enables the receiving of user input e.g. user interface elements and consistent with an embodiment of the invention.

After receiving the user input or user selection identifying the user to whom the question is to be directed e.g. USER B in at method operation a determination is made as to whether the user to whom the question is to be directed has previously passed on providing an answer to the question. For instance if the user to whom the question is being directed has previously been asked to answer the question and has previously indicated a desire to pass on answering the question then at method operation the user who is soliciting the answer e.g. USER A receives a message indicating that the user to whom the question has been directed has indicated a desire to pass on answering the question.

However if the user to whom the question is being directed has not previously indicated a desire to pass on answering the question at method operation the user to whom the question is being directed e.g. USER B is sent a message that specifically indicates that the requesting user e.g. USER A would like the user e.g. USER B to provide an answer to the particular question. The content of the message and the means by which it is communicated may vary depending upon the particular implementation. For instance with some embodiments the message may be communicated via a proprietary notification mechanism such that a notification message is shown on a web page displayed to the user e.g. USER B . Two examples of such messages are shown and further described in connection with and B. In some embodiments a user may be allowed to specify that the request message soliciting the answer is to be communicated anonymously such that the identity of the person who is requesting the answer to the question remains private.

With some embodiments a user can direct a question to any user of the question and answer service and as such a list of users will be automatically populated with names selected from the entire community of users so long as those names match the user input. In some alternative embodiments a user may be limited in directing a question only to some subset of the entire user community such as those users with whom the user has established a unilateral relationship e.g. by following another user or a bilateral relationship e.g. where each user follows the other . In such a scenario the list of names dynamically updated for selection would include only those names satisfying the system defined criteria. In some embodiments a user can enter contact information for a person who is not currently a user of the question and answer service. For example by entering an e mail address telephone number or some other contact information an appropriate message may be communicated to the person with a request to provide an answer to a question. The recipient of a solicitation message may be prompted to provide his or her name to be displayed with his or her answer or alternatively the recipient may be prompted to register as a user of the question and answer service as part of the process of providing the answer.

At method operation subsequent to communicating a request to answer a question to a user e.g. USER B the total number of requests to answer the question that have been received by the user is computed. For instance the sum of all ask to answer requests that have been directed to a particular user for a particular question is computed so that it can be displayed in a notification on the question page for the question. An example of such a notification is shown in with reference number .

The method begins at method operation when a user in this example USER C requests a question page for a question for which at least one user has already been solicited for an answer from another user e.g. USER B . For instance continuing with the example shown in when method operation occurs one can presume that USER A has already solicited USER B for an answer to the question on the question page requested by USER C. At method operation the requested question page is presented to the requesting user e.g. USER C . Because USER A has already solicited USER B for an answer to the question displayed on the question page a notification will be included on the question page showing for example a picture and name of the user who has been solicited for an answer as well as a number indicating the number of times that the particular user has been solicited for an answer. In addition a user interface element may be displayed in connection with the notification such that selection of the user interface element by USER C will automatically generate an additional request or solicitation on behalf of USER C directed to USER B and requesting that USER B provide an answer to the question. In the example notification illustrated in this additional user interface element is a check mark. Accordingly at method operation the question and answer service detects that a user e.g. USER C has selected the user interface element displayed in connection with the notification. In response at method operation the question and answer service computes or otherwise determines a tally of the number of users who have requested that the particular user associated with the displayed notification has been solicited for an answer to the question. Finally at method operation the notification displayed on the question page is updated to reflect the total number of times that the particular user associated with the notification has been solicited for an answer to the question.

Consistent with some embodiments each individual solicitation for an answer to a question is converted to a vote for the answer that is provided by the person who has been solicited for the answer. For instance consider again the example presented in in which each of USER A and USER C has solicited USER B for an answer to a question. When USER B provides an answer to the question USER A s solicitation is automatically converted to a vote for the answer. Similarly USER C s solicitation is also converted to a vote for the answer. In some embodiments the number of votes that an answer receives may affect the order in which the answer is displayed relative to other answers. For instance the answer with the most votes may be displayed in the most prominent position e.g. at or near the top of the list of answers. In addition with some embodiments when an answer is presented on a question page the names of the users who solicited the provider of the answer to provide the answer may be presented in connection with the answer. Accordingly if a particular answer gains notoriety for some reason each person who solicited the answer may be recognized by the user community as well.

Next at method operation the question and answer service receives text representing an answer to the question from the solicited user e.g. USER B . The text may be received for example through the submission of a web based form displayed to the user via an e mail or web page. Finally in some embodiments at method operation each solicitation for an answer to the question received by the user e.g. USER B is converted to a vote for the answer provided by the user. This final method operation is an optional operation and may not be performed in all embodiments.

As illustrated in a header or banner section is shown to include a text input box where a user can enter a question or alternatively enter one or more keywords to be used in a search for a question topic user or other item of content. Under the header section is a portion of the user interface showing a question and several topics to which the question is currently assigned. For instance in this example the question is What are the most popular rides at Disneyland The topics to which the question has been assigned include Amusement Parks and Disneyland. Next to the topics is an ADD TOPIC link or button enabling a user to add a new topic to be associated with the question. In addition a separate button or link shown in with text ADD QUESTION DETAILS provides the user with the ability to enter additional details about the question. Separate buttons or links exist for other user functionality such as adding comments about the question adding a follow up question and flagging the question for example as being inappropriate.

In this example user interface beneath the question are two answers and provided by two different users. Associated with each answer is a name of the user who posted the answer along with an indication of the number of people following that user. For example the first answer was posted by the user John Smith followed by one hundred twelve 112 users while the second answer was posted by Kate Johansen with no followers. Beneath each respective answer are buttons or links that enable a user to add a comment about an answer or indicate that an answer was helpful or not helpful. In addition to the left of each answer are two arrows for use in voting. For example the arrow buttons up and down for the answer posted by John Smith are shown with reference number . The votes for and against an answer may be used in an algorithm that determines the order in which answers to a particular question are presented.

At the bottom of the example user interface in there is a text input box providing a user with the ability to submit a new answer to the question . For example a user can type an answer in the text input box and then hit the SUBMIT ANSWER button to post the answer to the question and answer service. To make an answer anonymous such that the posting user s name will not be displayed next to the answer an anonymous button or link e.g. labeled as make anonymous in is provided.

In the right side of the user interface there is a FOLLOW QUESTION button that enables a user to subscribe to or follow the question. By following the question the user will be notified when others post new answers to the question. Beneath the FOLLOW QUESTION button are several questions determined to be related to the question on the current question page. Selecting one of these questions will lead the user to the question page for the selected question.

In addition to the right side of the example user interface shown in are two user interface elements e.g. buttons or links labeled SHARE QUESTION and ASK TO ANSWER . The SHARE QUESTION button enables a user to post the question or otherwise direct the question to other users for example via one or more social networking services a proprietary email system facilitated via the question and answer service or an externally hosted email system. Other sharing mechanisms may be possible as well. In general sharing a question differs from what is referred to herein as the ask to answer feature in that there is no explicit call to action when simply sharing a question.

Next to the SHARE QUESTION button is an ASK TO ANSWER button . The ASK TO ANSWER button enables a user to solicit another user for an answer to the question. For instance as described in connection with the method illustrated in when the question and answer service detects that a user has selected the ASK TO ANSWER button a user interface element such as a text input box is displayed allowing the user to enter the name of a user to whom the question is to be directed. An example of this e.g. the text input box is illustrated in with reference number .

Referring now to as a user enters a name in the text input box a list of users is automatically populated in real time responsive to the input entered by the user with names matching the input provided by the user allowing the user to select from the list a name of a user to whom the question is to be directed. In some embodiments the list may be populated with names selected from the entire user community. However in alternative embodiments the names may be selected to include only those persons with whom the user has some pre defined relationship for example via a social networking service and or the question and answer service. The matching algorithm used to match the user input with user s names may analyze and match first names last names or other portions of a user s name. For instance if a user enters the text drew the name Andrew may be displayed as a potential match.

In some embodiments the question and answer service will automatically select the list of user s names to be included in the drop down list based on the user provided input and will then rank or order the names based on a variety of factors such that the names of those users who are most likely to provide a meaningful answer to the question are shown first e.g. at the top in the list. For example the names in the list may be ranked and then ordered based on whether a user has a relationship with the requesting or soliciting user such that those users with whom the requesting user has a relationship are shown in a more prominent position in the list. In some embodiments those users who have previously answered questions on a topic to which the question being shared is assigned will be shown more prominently in the list. In some embodiments users who have been recognized as experts on a topic either through user endorsements or by some other means of recognition are given greater weight in the ranking algorithm and are therefore shown more prominently in the list. In some embodiments users who are currently online for instance participating in an active user session with the question and answer service are given greater weight in the ranking algorithm and are therefore shown more prominently in the list. These and a variety of other factors may be utilized when presenting a list of names for selection by the soliciting user.

Once a user identifies the name of a user to whom a question is to be directed the user simply selects the name from the list and the question and answer service automatically communicates a message to the selected user such that the message requests that the selected user provide an answer to the question. In addition the question and answer service stores information associated with the solicitation so that such information can be displayed on the question page for the question in response to subsequent requests for the question page. This information may include for example the name of the user that has requested an answer to the question the name of the user who has been requested to answer the question the number of users who have requested that a particular user answer the question and so forth.

In some embodiments the question and service may analyze a variety of factors to recommend or suggest to a particular user the names of other users who may be well suited to answer a particular question or highly likely to provide an answer if asked to provide an answer. For instance such factors may include any one or more of the following in various combinations the relationship that exists between the users the number of questions on a particular topic that a user has previously answered the net number of positive votes that user s answers have received for a certain topic a high correlation between the topics assigned to a question and the topics being followed by a user and the designation or recognition of a user as a knowledge expert on a given topic. With some embodiments the suggested users from whom a particular user might solicit an answer are displayed by default on the question page. Alternatively the question page may include a user interface element e.g. button or link which when selected generates an additional user interface that presents the suggested users from whom the particular user might solicit an answer to a question. With some embodiments when displaying the list of suggested users who might be solicited for an answer to a question a topic specific biographical statement pertaining to each suggested user may be presented along with the suggested user s name to provide the viewing user with some additional information for use in assessing whether or not to direct a question to the user.

Although not illustrated in consistent with some embodiments one or more additional notifications may be displayed in connection with the notifications with reference numbers and to identify the users who have requested that the solicited user provide an answer to the question. In some instances this information may be visible when a user manipulates the cursor or tracking device e.g. mouse pointer to hover over one of the notifications or generally referred to as a mouse over event. For instance when a mouse over event is detected additional information about the solicitations may be displayed to include the names and or pictures of the users who have requested the solicited user to provide an answer.

Skilled artisans will recognize that the methods and user interfaces presented herein are presented as specific examples of how the inventive concepts may be implemented. However methods and user interfaces that differ from the specific examples presented herein may be consistent with the general scope and spirit of the inventive concepts. Particularly the order in which certain method operations occur may vary from the examples presented herein without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts. Similarly a wide variety of user interface elements different from those presented herein may be used to implement the inventive concepts described herein.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules or logical components referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules or logic.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

