---

title: Serving from a third party server to a control device a web page useful for controlling an IPTV client with non-public address
abstract: An IPTV may be controlled in part by a second user consumer electronic (CE) device using a web page served from a third party server even though the third party server cannot function as a proxy to the IPTV.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438606&OS=08438606&RS=08438606
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08438606
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100720
---
The present application relates generally to serving web pages from a third party server to a control device to enable the control device to control a local server such as an IPTV that does not have a public address.

Internet access through TVs is typically provided by essentially programming the TV often referred to as an Internet Protocol TV or IPTV as though it were a computer executing a browser. Such Internet access is thus uncontrolled except as a firewall or filtering program might block certain sites.

As understood herein uncontrolled Internet access may not be desirable in the context of a TV. A firewall or filtering program may not always be installed on the TV and even when one is installed access remains much more uncontrolled than conventional TV programming traditionally has expected. Also a locally installed filter can be unloaded or defeated by a user.

Accordingly uncontrolled Internet access has several drawbacks. From a viewer s standpoint exposure to inappropriate subject matter particularly when young viewers are watching is one concern a much lower threshold of quality screening is another. That is while many TV shows might not be widely considered as quality shows nonetheless a TV program is usually much more selectively screened than say an Internet video. The expectations of TV viewers for such higher level quality screening as a consequence cannot be met by simply providing unfettered Internet access through the TV. Furthermore TV related entities from content providers manufacturers and carriers in most cases derive no benefit from the extension of TV to the Internet such as e.g. might be derived as understood herein by pay per view based on one or more options.

As further recognized herein it may be desirable to control an IPTV client with a second control device that might have more convenient user input devices than the IPTV or for other reasons. Present principles understand that such control may be effected by means of web pages but as also recognized herein it would be desirable to serve such web pages from a third party Internet server to avoid filling up storage in the IPTV and further to yield flexibility and robustness in being able to update web pages tailored for a variety of models without having to modify the software of the IPTV.

As still further recognized herein however an IPTV or other home server for which control is sought using a web page sourced from another server might not be publicly accessible on the Internet or might not have a publicly known address even if it is. This raises a cross domain issue which arises from a restriction which browsers impose to protect users from unauthorized usage of confidential information. Essentially for security reasons hypertext transfer protocol HTTP requests from a client can only be made to the server that serves up the page to the client and not to a different server on a different domain. On the Internet this is resolved by using the server as a proxy to convey information to the intended third party server but as mentioned above if the third party resides on a home network with a network address that is not available to the proxy this method is no longer applicable because the proxy server on the internet has no way of contacting a server that is on a home network.

Accordingly a webpage that is hosted by an external server nevertheless can perform AJAX asynchronous JavaScript and XML calls and the like such as AJAJ to local servers that reside only on the home network using present principles. Specifically a control device accessing the web page from the local server can send AJAX and AJAJ calls to the local server.

With the above in mind a home server which may be embodied by an IPTV includes a housing a display on the housing and a network interface. A processor in the housing controls the display and communicates with the Internet through the network interface. An input device communicates with the processor which executes logic including presenting a web application selection user interface UI and receiving a selection of a web application from the UI. Responsive to the selection the processor sends a request for a web page over the Internet to an Internet server receiving the web page from the Internet server in response. The processor then sends over a home network the web page to a control device including a processor display and user input device such that the control device can display the web page to input commands to the home server.

The request for a web page may identify a type and or model number of the control device and the web page can be tailored to the type and or model number. The web application selection UI may be presented on the display of the home server. In some examples the web page presents an image of a virtual remote control RC including images of RC keys that can be selected to send a command to the home server to control the home server. The command in this example is configured in an infrared communication protocol. In other examples the web page presents entry fields for accounting information to conduct a monetary transaction for audio video content. In yet other examples the web page presents a search entry field into which non Arabic characters are imputable to cause the home server to search for content.

In another aspect a system includes a home server a control consumer electronic CE device and a third party server communicating with the home server over the Internet. The control CE device controls the home server using a web page served from the third party server on the home server even though the third party server cannot function as a proxy to the home server.

In another aspect a server assembly includes a processor a network interface communicating with the processor to establish communication between the processor and a wide area network and a computer readable storage medium accessible to the processor and bearing logic. The logic causes the processor to receive a request for a web page from a control device and then request over the Internet the web page from a server on the Internet. The server assembly receives the web page over the Internet and serves the web page to the control device as though the server assembly originated the web page.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a client home server device such as a TV game player video disk player camera digital clock radio mobile telephone personal digital assistant laptop computer etc. includes a portable lightweight plastic housing bearing a digital processor . The processor can control a visual display and an audible display such as one or more speakers. For disclosure purposes the home server device in one example can be an Internet Protocol TV IPTV and may be referred to as such below without loss of generality.

To undertake present principles the processor may access one or more computer readable storage media such as but not limited to RAM based storage e.g. a chip implementing dynamic random access memory DRAM or flash memory or disk based storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the CE device may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles.

The processor can receive user input signals from various input devices including a remote control device a point and click device such as a mouse a keypad etc. A TV tuner may be provided in some implementations particularly when the CE device is embodied by a TV to receive TV signals from a source such as a set top box satellite receiver cable head end terrestrial TV signal antenna etc. Signals from the tuner are sent to the processor for presentation on the display and speakers .

As shown in a network interface such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet. Double arrows in indicate network communication between components over wired and or wireless links. In this way the client device can communicate with a management server on the Internet and with one or more content servers also on the Internet and communicating with the management server . Also on the Internet is a third party server which can serve Web pages. Note that third party is a term generally denoting an entity apart from the IPTV and control device described below and does not necessarily connote anything about respective ownership of the various components.

The servers have respective processors accessing respective non transitory computer readable storage media which may be without limitation disk based and or solid state storage. The servers communicate with a wide area network such as the Internet via respective network interfaces . It is to be understood in view of disclosure below that the home server device particularly when implemented by a non PC device such as a TV or game console or camera can communicate only with the management server and with content servers that appear on a service list provided to the processor by the management server with the service list not being modifiable by the processor .

A second or control CE device with housing such as another TV game player video disk player camera digital clock radio mobile telephone personal digital assistant laptop computer etc. bears a digital processor controlling a visual display and an audible display such as one or more speakers. To undertake present principles the second or control processor may access one or more computer readable storage media such as but not limited to RAM based storage e.g. a chip implementing dynamic random access memory DRAM or flash memory or disk based storage. Software code implementing present logic executable by the second or control device may also be stored on one of the memories shown to undertake present principles. Further the second or control processor can receive user input signals from various input devices including a point and click device such as a mouse a keypad etc. A network interface such as a wired or wireless modem or wireless telephony transceiver communicates with the processor to provide connectivity to a wide area network such as the Internet.

However regardless of what mode of command is used it is to be understood that information identifying the model number and type of the control device is sent to the IPTV. In this way a web page tailored for that particular type of control device may be retrieved from the third party server. Accordingly when the control device is used in the logic of blocks the control device can be automatically programmed to send its identifying information to the IPTV as part of the selection at block . On the other hand if the RC is used the IPTV can be programmed to prompt on its display for the viewer to enter by means of the keys on the RC the identifying information of the control device .

At block the home server IPTV sends a request to the third party server for the selected web application as embodied in a web page served from the server . This request can include the information identifying the type model number etc. of the control device as well as if desired the type model number of the IPTV. With this information the third party server can return a version of the web page that is tailored for one or both the IPTV and the control device . It will accordingly be appreciated that the server with its greater capacity for storage and processing may store multiple versions of a web page for service to multiple different control devices and or home servers while facilitating modifications to the web pages that in essence are propagated globally simply by changing them at the server instead of having to update every home server in the IPTV system with an updated page were the home servers tasked with storing and managing the web pages.

In response to its request the home server receives the web page from the third party server . Then at block the home server sends the web page to the control device identifying itself the home server as the web page sender to indicate to the browser of the control device that the home server and not the third party server is sourcing the web page. Commands from the control device entered by means of the web page consequently are returned to the homer server where they are received by the home server at block with the above noted cross domain problem having been solved by serving the page from the home server so that the browser of the control device encounters no security barriers to responding back to the serving IPTV. The commands may be in the form of AJAX AJAJ calls.

The logic above thus describes a way of serving a web page from a third party server on the Internet and having that web page under control of the control device subsequently communicate with the home server IPTV .

Described differently if the control device is designated A the home server IPTV is designated B and the third party server designated C then in the logic above A must get a web page stored at C but this web page principally communicates with B which must request it. Accordingly to get the web page from C A gets it from B which gets it from C i.e. A B C B A. Subsequent hypertext transfer protocol HTTP calls involving the web page are A to B to A i.e. A B A.

Thus in the logic of the call to the third party server is made to load the web page whereas in conventional Internet proxy sourcing the call to the third party server is made after the page is already loaded.

Present principles permit the home server IPTV to respond to the request from the control device while leaving the flexibility of UI changes to the third party server host on the Internet. Consequently the web page can be frequently improved and not have any impact on the TV s software code. The IPTV merely serves up the web page directed by the control device to the control device. This also gives the control device the flexibility of getting the desired web page and not be restricted to the any one that the IPTV offers were the web page to originate at the IPTV and not the third party server host. As intimated above different implementations of the IPTV API can exist on ten different hosts and the client operating the control device can choose to use the implementation on any of the ten hosts to communicate with the IPTV.

Recall that at block using an API on the home server the control device requests a third party webpage. In a non limiting manner such an API call may be formatted as follows http getWebpage.php url www.google.com TVcontrols.html. When such a request is made to the home server the home server downloads the web page stated by the uniform resource locator URL and returns it to the control device making the home server appear to be the host of that web page and hence resolving the cross domain issue of browsers because browsers allow HTTP calls within the web page to be made to the server that serves up the page.

Specifically and now referring to responsive to a selection to present an image of a virtual RC at block a virtual RC UI is obtained as described above by the IPTV from the third party server and served by the IPTV to the control device . In the example shown the UI can include an image of a RC keypad with images of RC keys that may be selected by means of the control device input device . When a virtual RC key is selected a code mimicking the code that would generated by a RC is sent to the IPTV. For example a signal in Sony Infrared Remote Control System SIRCS protocol may be sent from the control device to the IPTV responsive to selection of an image of the virtual RC keypad although the signal itself need not be physically in the infrared spectrum. In this way the TV recognizes the code since it is already programmed to recognize IR codes from physical RCs. The commands input to the IPTV using the virtual RC may be without limitation channel up down volume up down channel skip tune to last channel stop play pause fast forward reverse skip chapter etc.

Also entry windows may be presented in the UI into which a viewer may enter respectively an IP address for the IPTV to access and text to command the IPTV using the control device input device . Send and close buttons may be presented on the UI to send the text in the window and close the UI respectively. Also a get assets button may be provided which when selected commands the IPTV to obtain a list of assets from one of the content servers . A sort selector button can also be provided to sort the assets in plural user defined ways e.g. alphabetically reverse alphabetically etc.

In a user of a control device having non Arabic letter keys may wish to input a search term in other than the Arabic alphabet for a movie. The web page UI of may be selected by the control device and obtained by the IPTV from the third party server for service to the control device by the IPTV as described above. Non Arabic letters in this case Japanese font can be input to search for a movie e.g. Spiderman . Send and close buttons can be provided to send the search terms to the IPTV and close the UI respectively.

The IPTV then executes the search to download results from e.g. the content serves . Although the results presented on the IPTV display may contain only boxes instead of the non Arabic characters establishing the search terms because e.g. the IPTV may not have the capability to display non Arabic fonts as shown in a UI presenting on the control device display the search results may indeed display non Arabic characters in a description column corresponding to results thumbnails in a results column . Sort clear and get more assets buttons may also be provided in the UI .

While the particular SERVING FROM A THIRD PARTY SERVER TO A CONTROL DEVICE A WEB PAGE USEFUL FOR CONTROLLING AN IPTV CLIENT WITH NON PUBLIC ADDRESS is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

