---

title: System and method for using paper as an interface to computer applications
abstract: A system and method for using paper to interface with handwritten annotations and/or pre-defined templates with one or more computer applications is disclosed. In one embodiment, the method includes imaging content in the paper including pre-defined handwritten commands, associated syntax, one or more computer application identifiers and pointed data which is already existing on the paper, analyzing the imaged content to identify the pre-defined handwritten commands, the one or more computer applications associated with the one or more computer application identifiers, the associated syntax and the pointed data, extracting the pointed data into a specified format associated with the one or more computer applications, executing the one or more computer applications based on the identified pre-defined handwritten commands, the one or more computer application identifiers and the associated syntax, and importing the extracted pointed data into the one or more executed computer applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081412&OS=09081412&RS=09081412
owner: HEWLETT-PACKARD DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, L.P.
number: 09081412
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101125
---
Benefit is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to Foreign application Serial No. 2185 CHE 2010 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING PAPER AS AN INTERFACE TO COMPUTER APPLICATIONS by Hewlett Packard Development Company L.P. filed on Jul. 31 2010 which is herein incorporated in its entirety by reference for all purposes.

Paper can be a very useful and simple on ramp to computing for non tech savvy users prior to using computer applications. Even for those who are computer savvy paper can help simplify the overall experience when using the computer applications.

Multifunction devices also known as All In One AiO devices connected to personal computers PCs and PCs including cameras that can enable paper as an interface are becoming popular both for the home and the office. Such devices as part of their basic functions of printing etc. can also scan and or camera capture pointed data in papers. For example in the case of an AiO connected to a PC with the PC normally acting as a master sending data to be printed on the AiO or the PC acting as a slave receiving data that is scanned from the AiO the AiO could further enable much simpler interfaces to the PC. For example a scanned paper using well defined handwritten annotations can trigger computer applications on a PC and also provide data from the scanned paper to the triggered computer applications.

The existing techniques describe scanning data in paper and linking to computer applications residing in PCs however they do not go beyond linking the computer applications residing in PCs i.e. they do not provide scanned data from the scanned paper to the triggered computer applications. Further the existing techniques do not provide simpler interfaces where paper can use the well defined handwritten annotations to provide data to applications and perform subsequent actions that can be carried out by the applications.

The drawings described herein are for illustration purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present subject matter in any way.

A system and method for using paper as an interface to computer applications is disclosed. In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

The process of scanning or camera capturing content in a document and linking one or more computer applications described herein analyzes the content in the scanned and or camera captured document links it to the one or more computer applications and carries out subsequent operations actions associated with the one or more computer applications based on the analysis of the scanned and or camera captured content. Further in one embodiment the process analyzes content provided in a standard format that can be imported by a third party computer application such as sending data to a web application from the scanned content that is in standard format.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a pre defined form may also be used to interface with a computer application. The pre defined form is imaged for interpreting pre defined handwritten commands associated syntax and data entered in the pre defined form. Further data entered in the pre defined form may be extracted by matching the imaged content in the pre defined form with a template of the computer application. Using the extracted data the computer application may be executed. The extracted data is also imported into the computer application. In other words the process analyzes content provided in the pre defined form that can be imported by a third party computer application such as sending data to a web application.

The terms paper and document are used interchangeably throughout the description. Also the terms application and computer application are used interchangeably throughout the description. Further the term annotations refers to at least one of pre defined handwritten commands associated syntax one or more computer application identifiers and pointed data on the paper pre defined form.

In one example embodiment the content in the paper is imaged by scanning the content in the paper for detecting and interpreting the pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data. For example the content in the paper may be scanned using an All in One AiO device for detecting and interpreting the pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data. The AiO device may include a scanner or other user input devices having capability to scan the content in the paper.

In another example embodiment the content in the paper is imaged by camera capturing the content in the paper for detecting and interpreting the pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data. For example the content in the paper is camera captured using a camera disposed on a personal computer for interpreting the pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data. The content in the paper can also be camera captured using a webcam a mobile device having a camera and so on.

At step the imaged content is analyzed to identify the pre defined handwritten commands one or more computer applications associated with the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data. In one example embodiment the imaged content is analyzed using algorithms selected from the group consisting of an ink extraction algorithm optical character recognition OCR algorithm handwriting recognition HWR algorithm handwritten keyword selection algorithm and bar code extraction algorithm.

In accordance with the above described embodiments with respect to steps and a user can scan or camera capture content in a document e.g. paper that contains handwritten commands indicating the launch of a specific computer application.

At step the pointed data is extracted into a specified format associated with the one or more computer applications. Exemplary computer applications include EXCEL GIMP WORD EMAIL PPT Notepad and so on. The computer applications can also include but not limited to mobile applications. In one embodiment the user may add annotations for selecting data e.g. pointed data of from the scanned document. Further the AiO device or the scanner extracts the selected data from the paper using methods such as the ink extraction algorithm the optical character recognition OCR algorithm the handwriting recognition HWR algorithm the handwritten keyword selection algorithm and the bar code extraction algorithm.

Further the extracted data is then intelligently mapped to data input required for the computer application. In one example embodiment in case of a text block e.g. printed text being sent to a word processing application the data may just be sent as input to the computer application. In another embodiment in case of a handwritten text e.g. handwritten table of being sent to a spreadsheet application the extracted data will be mapped to a grammar of the specified format required by the spreadsheet and the extracted data in the specified format is provided to the spreadsheet.

Once data is extracted from the scanned document the AiO device may prompt the user to review the extracted results. In one example embodiment a mechanism could be provided for the user to accept the data alter the data or reject the data. In another example embodiment a default action may be performed such as sending the image or the data to the computer application without user review.

At step the one or more computer applications are executed based on the identified pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers and the associated syntax. At step the extracted pointed data is imported into the one or more executed computer applications. For example shows an example document that indicates how a computer application Microsoft office Excel be launched and the corresponding pointed data be sent to an Excel sheet. Some of the examples for launching different computer applications using the paper as an interface are explained in greater detail in .

In accordance with the steps and several methods are documented to enable the entry of data from one computer application to another computer application. Such methods can also be utilized to transfer data from the AiO device to a computer application residing on the personal computer PC . For example the Microsoft clipboard format i.e. Microsoft clipboard provides details of how to export data from a non Microsoft application into a Microsoft application. Once the AiO device determines a target computer application i.e. the computer application to be launched it will convert extracted data in the step into a format suitable for the target computer application using such established standards. The AiO device may also export data extracted from step in a publicly declared format using methods such as extensible markup language XML and so on. Further the computer applications can write suitable plug ins to accept the XML formatted data being sent from the AiO device.

In yet another embodiment the scanned document may be processed in batch mode and data sent to a computer application that is on a cloud. For example a user may choose to process several documents like bills and input them into an accounting application in the cloud. In this case information is extracted in batch mode and the computer application on the cloud such as a SAP database is populated. The computer application can also be a Cloud Service such as a personal expense application MINT hosted as Service on the Cloud.

In another embodiment a pre defined form including content can also be used to interface with a computer application. In this case the content in the pre defined form filled data entered in the pre defined form and an associated computer application is imaged. For example the content in the pre defined form is imaged by scanning or by camera capturing the content in the pre defined form for identifying and interpreting the annotations and the filled data. The annotations include commands and the computer applications uniform resource locator URL . An example of pre defined form is explained in greater detail in .

In these embodiments application providers may choose to provide users with pre defined forms for different computer applications. Once the user fills out the pre defined form the pre defined form can be processed by the AiO device as described above. In case of such pre printed forms or pre defined forms an annotation indicating the computer application may be replaced by specific machine readable information. In these embodiments an agent resides on a personal computer PC or wherever the computer application is residing to collect or store the information associated with the computer application received from this step in order to launch the appropriate computer application. In one example embodiment the computer application can include a web application.

Further the filled data entered in the pre defined form is extracted by matching the imaged content in the pre defined form with a template of a blank form including known field IDs. In these embodiments the pre defined form is matched against the template for the computer application and information is extracted and provided in a pre defined format specified for that computer application. For example the pre defined form provides some options such as check boxes which allow interactions which would have otherwise needed complex menu navigation and selection to be made easier by check extracting and recognizing these annotations. The pre defined form may also include a template that matches an electronic layout. For example a table on the form could match the cells of a spreadsheet that needs to be created.

Furthermore the imaged content is analyzed to identify annotations. Also the computer application is executed based on the identified annotations. In addition the extracted filled data entered in the pre defined form is imported into the executed computer application.

In these embodiments the pre defined forms can also be created by an authoring tool. For example the authoring tool allows the user to design create these forms and map contents of the forms to an XML format that needs to be generated once the information from the form is extracted. If the user is not using the pre defined forms the authoring tool can be used to define the XML format where the extracted data from paper needs to be matched against during this step.

In yet another embodiment application providers may choose to provide users with pre formatted paper forms i.e. pre defined forms . Once the user fills out this form the form can be processed by the AiO device using steps described above. In the case of such pre printed forms the annotation indicating the computer application may be replaced by specific markings on the form. These markings could be a bar code a specific format of the form logos or other artifacts. The user may indicate the presence of such markings to trigger the computer application. In these embodiments the AiO device may also need to provide user interface choices to specify the PC to which the data has to be sent. If a scanner is attached to a single PC for example USB data could be sent to the connected PC. If the scanner is connected to a network the user can specify the PC by keying in the IP address or other unique identifier for the PC.

As illustrated in the handwritten commands and are written in the scanned document in a pre defined notation of being circled i.e. syntax to provide demarcation. Further the handwritten command launch within the circle is followed by the computer application identifier excel within square brackets. Furthermore the handwritten command send within the circle is followed by the pointed data within square brackets. In another example embodiment other ways of identifying that a marking is for interpretation by the scanner can be used. For example the other ways may include specific colors shapes or unusual symbols which will not appear in typical documents. Similarly the whole document may be analyzed so that the user can write the annotations anywhere there is a blank space of sufficient size or else other specific areas can be used.

In the example embodiment illustrated in the content in the document including launch and send commands and the computer application identifier excel and pointed data is imaged by scanning the document using an All in One AiO device or camera capturing the content in the document using a camera disposed on a personal computer or a webcam. In this example the pointed data includes handwritten data e.g. handwritten table .

Further the imaged scanned document is analyzed to identify the launch and send commands and a computer application associated with the computer application identifier excel and the pointed data . Furthermore the pointed data is extracted and mapped to a grammar of the specified format associated with the computer application. For example the computer application illustrated in is Microsoft Excel. The Microsoft Excel is executed launched based on the launch and send commands and computer application identifier excel and the associated syntax. In addition the extracted pointed data in the specified format is imported into the Microsoft Excel. In other words a paper or scanned document is used as an interface to send data from the paper or scanned document to different computer applications based on the analysis of the handwritten annotations in the paper. In another embodiment the paper or scanned document can also be used as an interface to send data to a web application based on the analysis of the handwritten annotations in the paper.

In the example embodiment illustrated in the content in the document is imaged and analyzed to identify the launch and send commands and a computer application associated with the computer application identifier GIMP and the pointed data . Furthermore the pointed data is extracted into a specified format associated with the computer application. For example the computer application illustrated in is a GNU Image Manipulation Program GIMP which is an image retouching and editing tool. The GIMP application is executed and the extracted pointed data in the specified format is sent to the GIMP application.

In the example embodiment illustrated in the content in the document is imaged and analyzed to identify the launch command and a computer application associated with the computer application identifier word . For example the computer application illustrated in is Microsoft word . In these embodiments optical character recognition OCR will be launched to process content of the entire document and the OCR results will be sent to the Microsoft word application.

In the example embodiment illustrated in the content in the document is imaged and analyzed to identify the launch and send commands and a computer application associated with the computer application identifier email and the pointed data and . Furthermore only the pointed data and within the square brackets is extracted into a specified format associated with the computer application. In these embodiments the content included within the square brackets is OCRed. The OCR results i.e. extracted pointed data and in the specified format will be sent to the email application.

In another embodiment the data in the scanned document can be sent to more than one computer application based on the identified pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers and the associated syntax. For example the pointed data within the square brackets can be sent to an email application and the pointed data within the square brackets can be sent to a Microsoft word application and so on using multiple handwritten commands and associated computer application identifiers in the document.

In the example embodiment illustrated in the content in the document is imaged and analyzed to identify the launch command and the send command a computer application associated with the computer application identifier PPT and the pointed data . For example the computer application illustrated in is the Microsoft PowerPoint. The pointed data i.e. image within the square brackets is extracted into a specified format associated with the Microsoft PowerPoint. The Microsoft PowerPoint application is executed launched and the extracted pointed data in the specified format is sent to the Microsoft PowerPoint application.

Once the data is filled the content in the pre defined form filled data entered in the pre defined form and an associated computer application is imaged. In one example embodiment the content in the pre defined form is imaged by scanning the content in the pre defined form for identifying and interpreting the annotations and the filled data. In another example embodiment the content in the pre defined form is imaged by camera capturing the content in the pre defined form for identifying and interpreting the annotations and the pointed data. For example the annotations include commands and the computer applications uniform resource locator URL .

Further the filled data entered in the pre defined form is extracted by matching the imaged content in the pre defined form with a template of a blank form including the known field IDs for the computer or web based application. Further the imaged content is analyzed to identify annotations such as launch followed by URL . The URL in this example includes www.irctc.co.in . Further the web application www.irctc.co.in is executed based on the identified annotations. In addition the extracted filled data entered in the pre defined form is imported into the executed web application.

A general computing system in the form of a personal computer or a mobile device may include a processor memory a removable storage and a non removable storage . The computing system additionally includes a bus a network interface and a webcam . The computing system may include or have access to the computing system environment that includes a paper content capture system one or more output devices and one or more communication connections such as a network interface card or a universal serial bus connection.

The paper content capture system includes an All in One AiO device a camera and or one or more user input devices . The one or more user input devices may be a digitizer screen and a stylus trackball keyboard keypad mouse and the like. The one or more user input devices may also include a mobile device having a camera. The one or more output devices may be a display device of the personal computer or the mobile device. The communication connections may include a local area network a wide area network and or other networks.

The memory may include volatile memory and non volatile memory . A variety of computer readable storage media may be stored in and accessed from the memory elements of the computing system such as the volatile memory and the non volatile memory the removable storage and the non removable storage . Computer memory elements may include any suitable memory device s for storing data and machine readable instructions such as read only memory random access memory erasable programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory hard drive removable media drive for handling compact disks digital video disks diskettes magnetic tape cartridges memory cards Memory Sticks and the like.

The processor as used herein means any type of computational circuit such as but not limited to a microprocessor a microcontroller a complex instruction set computing microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing microprocessor a very long instruction word microprocessor an explicitly parallel instruction computing microprocessor a graphics processor a digital signal processor or any other type of processing circuit. The processor may also include embedded controllers such as generic or programmable logic devices or arrays application specific integrated circuits single chip computers smart cards and the like.

Embodiments of the present subject matter may be implemented in conjunction with program modules including functions procedures data structures and application programs for performing tasks or defining abstract data types or low level hardware contexts. Machine readable instructions stored on any of the above mentioned storage media may be executable by the processor of the computing system . For example a computer program may include machine readable instructions capable of using paper to interface with one or more computer applications according to the teachings and herein described embodiments of the present subject matter. In one embodiment the computer program may be included on a compact disk read only memory CD ROM and loaded from the CD ROM to a hard drive in the non volatile memory . The machine readable instructions may cause the computing system to encode according to the various embodiments of the present subject matter.

As shown the computer program includes a paper to computer applications interface module . The paper to computer applications interface module further includes an authoring tool and a data transport driver .

In one embodiment the system includes a network e.g. the communications connections the paper content capture system the processor coupled to the paper content capture system via the network. In these embodiments the network may be a wireless or wired network.

Further as described above the system also includes the paper to computer applications interface module . Furthermore the paper to computer applications interface module includes the authoring tool for allowing a user to create user defined handwritten commands. In these embodiments the authoring tool is capable of authoring the user defined handwritten commands for mapping data to the computer application. In one embodiment the user may define the handwritten commands and map the handwritten commands as required. For example From To Body can be used to mark content for an email application. These handwritten commands could also for instance be commands in local languages that can be customized by the user. In another embodiment the authoring tool allows templates to be authored for different computer applications. For example a predefined form for sending an email can be authored to be used by the user with or without the handwritten commands. In yet another embodiment the authoring tool can read a format of the handwritten commands that is acceptable by an electronic application such as XML format e.g. which specifies From To and Body for an email application and allows the user to map the handwritten commands and content to this format.

The system also includes the memory operatively coupled to the processor . For example the memory includes the user defined handwritten commands and pre defined handwritten commands. The memory also includes the paper to computer applications interface module having instructions capable of imaging content in the paper using the paper content capture system . The content includes handwritten commands associated syntax one or more computer application identifiers and pointed data.

The instructions further capable of identifying the handwritten commands one or more computer applications associated with the one or more computer application identifiers the associated syntax and the pointed data using the paper to computer applications interface module . Further the instructions capable of mapping the identified handwritten commands to handwritten commands selected from the group consisting of the user defined handwritten commands and the pre defined handwritten commands using the authoring tool .

Also the instructions capable of extracting the pointed data into a specified format associated with the one or more computer applications using the paper to computer applications interface module executing the one or more computer applications based on the identified and mapped pre defined handwritten commands the one or more computer application identifiers and the associated syntax using the paper to computer applications interface module and importing the extracted pointed data into the one or more executed computer applications using the data transport driver in the paper to computer applications interface module .

For example the paper to computer applications interface module may be in the form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium having the instructions that when executed by the computing system may cause the computing system to perform one or more methods described in .

In various embodiments the systems and methods described in through allow users to perform simple actions on a computer by writing instructions on a paper and using the AiO device as input to the computer. The above described systems and methods also allow users to add application specific data from a scanned document. In this case certain tasks have simple interactions for example tagging of photographs selecting amount and date field from invoice etc. that can be completed on the AiO device. Such annotations and interactions are more intuitive using handwritten interface.

Further the above described systems and methods for filling out a pre printed form could allow a user to provide instructions in a local language thus enabling easier interfacing to the application. Furthermore the above described systems and methods allow extracted data to be exported in a public format that can be used by third party applications. Currently the only information sent out by the AiO device is the image itself with some minimal meta data in the case of digital sending devices. The exported data from the AiO device could include enhanced meta data such as user intent regarding a target application recognized handwritten content on the document or recognized document content.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. Furthermore the various devices modules analyzers generators and the like described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry for example complementary metal oxide semiconductor based logic circuitry firmware software and or any combination of hardware firmware and or software embodied in a machine readable medium. For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits such as application specific integrated circuit.

