---

title: Enterprise data duplication identification
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for identifying duplicate data. In one exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method for identifying duplicate data. The method may include identifying one or more reference fields that include one or more data values. The method may include retrieving the one or more reference fields and one or more data values. The method may also include transforming the one or more reference fields into one or more reference fingerprint patterns. The method may also include identifying one or more target fields that include one or more target field values. The method may also include retrieving the one or more target fields. The method may also include transforming the one or more target field values into one or more target fingerprint patterns. The method may also include comparing the one or more reference fingerprint patterns with the one or more target fingerprint patterns. The method may further include determining an overlap between the one or more reference fingerprint patterns and the one or more target fingerprint patterns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429137&OS=08429137&RS=08429137
owner: Federal Express Corporation
number: 08429137
owner_city: Memphis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for identifying duplicate data. More particularly the present invention relates to systems and methods for identifying duplicate data in different systems databases and tables.

Companies often store data in numerous tables databases and systems. Since companies often add update and delete data duplicate data may be created in a plurality of tables databases and systems. Storage of such duplicate data consumes capacity of the database which results in increasing maintenance cost and requiring a longer time for search.

It is common for the same data to be stored in numerous tables databases and systems. For example if a system includes information for customers that send and receive packages the system may store customer information such as a customer name address identification number invoice number and tracking information. However the same customer information may be stored in more than one table with different column names and column data types. In addition the same customer information may be stored in more than one database and system. Moreover there may be missing column names.

One way to locate duplicate data is for company personnel to manually review all data in each table of a database. However a manual review of numerous tables databases and systems could takes days months or years. As the number of tables databases and systems increase manual review may become unworkable. In addition using a computerized search methodology is inefficient. For example there may be hundreds of thousands of tables that include customer information. These tables may include millions of fields and trillions of rows of data. The time needed to search for duplicate data may take thousands of years using a computer.

Accordingly there is a need to reduce the time needed to search for duplicate data within tables databases and systems. To address these needs a system is needed that may accurately and efficiently search and locate duplicate data.

In one exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for identifying duplicate data. The method may include identifying one or more reference fields that include one or more data values. The method may include retrieving the one or more reference fields and one or more data values. The method may also include transforming the one or more reference fields into one or more reference fingerprint patterns. The method may also include identifying one or more target fields that include one or more target field values. The method may also include retrieving the one or more target fields. The method may also include transforming the one or more target field values into one or more target fingerprint patterns. The method may also include comparing the one or more reference fingerprint patterns with the one or more target fingerprint patterns. The method may further include determining an overlap between the one or more reference fingerprint patterns and the one or more target fingerprint patterns.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments and features are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding steps to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

By way of a non limiting example illustrates a system in which the features and principles of the present invention may be implemented. The number of components in system is not limited to what is shown and other variations in the number of arrangements of components are possible consistent with embodiments of the invention. The components of may be implemented through hardware software and or firmware. System may include systems and duplication identification system and network .

Network provides communications between or among the various entities depicted in system . Network may be a shared public or private network and may encompass a wide area or local area. Network may be implemented through any suitable combination of wired and or wireless communication networks including Wi Fi networks GSM GPRS networks TDMA networks CDMA networks Bluetooth networks or any other wireless networks . By way of example network may be implemented through a wide area network WAN local area network LAN an intranet and or the Internet. Further the entities of system may be connected to multiple networks such as for example to a wireless carrier network a private data network and the public Internet.

Systems may include one or more processors such as computers. Systems may each contain one or more databases that store one or more tables of data. The data may include for example customer information including a customer name address identification number invoice number and tracking information for a shipment.

Duplication identification system may provide a platform for communicating with systems . Duplication identification system may be implemented using a combination of hardware software and or firmware and may be operable to receive and store data from various systems . For example duplication identification system may search for and receive data from systems regarding customer information.

For example duplication identification system may include components such as a central processing unit CPU a memory an input output I O device s an application programming interface API and a database that can be implemented in various ways. For example an integrated platform such as a workstation personal computer laptop etc. may comprise CPU memory I O devices API and database interconnected by a local bus . In such a configuration components and may connect through a local bus interface.

CPU may be one or more known processing devices such as a microprocessor from the Pentium family manufactured by Intel or a mainframe class processor. Memory may be one or more storage devices configured to store information used by CPU to perform certain functions operations and steps related to embodiments of the present invention. Memory may be a magnetic semiconductor tape optical or other type of storage device. In one embodiment memory includes one or more software application programs that when executed by CPU perform various processes consistent with the present invention.

Methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with the present invention are not limited to programs configured to perform dedicated tasks. For example memory may be configured with a program that performs several functions consistent with the invention when executed by CPU . Alternatively CPU may execute one or more programs located remotely from duplication identification system . For example duplication identification system may access one or more remote programs that when executed perform functions related to embodiments of the present invention. The configuration and number of programs implementing processes consistent with the invention are not critical to the invention.

Memory may be also be configured with an operating system not shown that performs several functions well known in the art when executed by CPU . By way of example the operating system may be Microsoft Windows Unix Linux an Apple operating system such as MAC OSX Personal Digital Assistant operating system such as Microsoft CE or other operating system. The choice of operating system and even the use of an operating system is not critical to the invention.

I O device s may comprise one or more input output devices that allow data to be received and or transmitted by duplication identification system . For example I O device may include one or more input devices such as a network connection keyboard touch screen mouse microphone disk reader and the like that enable data to be input or received from a user. Further I O device may include one or more output devices such as a network connection display screen printer speaker devices and the like that enable data to be output or presented to a user. The configuration and number of input and or output devices incorporated in I O device are not critical to the invention.

API is an interface used by duplication identification system to execute user requests. API may be used in conjunction with I O device to define for example monitoring parameters events and notifications with respects to shipments. In addition API may query and receive information regarding shipments in response to information received at I O device .

Database may comprise one or more databases that store information and are accessed and managed through system . By way of example database may be an Oracle database a Sybase database or other relational database. Furthermore the data could be stored in a computer file with a fixed field or delimited field formatting and may or may not be indexed. In addition all of the data may be stored in memory .

In order to efficiently search for duplicate data with 100 accuracy i.e. no matching fields are incorrectly categorized as non matching and no non matching field are incorrectly categorized as matching a comparison of the contents of all target fields must be compared to each other. However a manual inspection of the data of each target field is inefficient. Moreover electronically reviewing and determining duplicate address information may take years to complete.

Heuristics may be used to reduce the search space while still finding all matches. For example the size of the search space may be reduced by applying knowledge information regarding the data stored in the tables databases and systems. For example each of the databases in the systems may be familiar with the data and may know which fields are most likely to be duplicated and which fields may indicate the existence of the duplicate data.

Referring back to reference fields names CONTACT INFORMATION CONTACT NAME CUSTOMER NUMBER EMPLOYEE and TRACKING exist in thousands of different tables. Accordingly there is a probability that these fields include duplicate data. Therefore instead of comparing the contents of each field with every other field duplication identification system may instead compare fields having a minimum length of characters to a set of known targets. This method of comparison may result in a magnitude reduction of field combinations by several orders of magnitude.

Duplication identification system may extract all reference field values and transform them into reference fingerprint patterns. Duplication identification system may then compare the reference fingerprint patterns to target fingerprint patterns generated from samples of the target data fields to reduce the number of required comparisons. If a reference fingerprint pattern matches a target fingerprint pattern an actual match may exist. If a reference fingerprint pattern does not match a target fingerprint pattern the actual values of the fingerprint pattern do not match.

The transformation of data values into a fingerprint pattern may occur based on several rules. All letters e.g. A to Z may be transformed into the letter A. In addition all numbers e.g. 0 to 9 may be transformed into the number 9. All other possible characters may be transformed according to additional rules e.g. spaces and special characters may be transformed into or they may not be transformed and may be left unchanged. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any number of fingerprint transformation rules may exist and each rule may include any combination of one or more transformations.

As illustrated in data value ASIA1012 may be transformed into a fingerprint pattern of AAAA9999. Based on this transformation the number of characters may remain the same e.g. eight characters but the letters are changed to A and the numbers are changed to 9. Likewise data value CAFE2162 may also be transformed into a fingerprint pattern of AAAA9999. This example of a fingerprint pattern includes the letter A four times and the number 9 four times.

Data values containing different combinations of letters and numbers may also be transformed. For example data value FDXW03 may be transformed into a second fingerprint pattern of AAAA99. Similarly data value GRASP may be transformed into a third fingerprint pattern of AAAAA. As illustrated in three fingerprint patterns may exist. However one of ordinary skill would appreciate that any number of fingerprint patterns may exist and each pattern may include any combination of one or more letter and numbers. In addition any number of fingerprint patterns may exist that include only letters or only numbers. Moreover fingerprint patterns may also exist that include more than one type of letter e.g. A and B more than one type of number e.g. 1 and 2 and one or more special characters e.g. .

After transformation of the data values into fingerprint patterns duplication identification system may perform a search for all pattern matches. If one or more pattern matches are found duplication identification system may compare the actual data values represented by each pattern to determine if duplicate data exists. Conversely the absence of pattern matches may indicate that the detailed data will not match and duplicate data does not exist.

As stated above not all data may be searched to identify possible data value duplication. Using heuristics to reduce the search space the size of the search space may be reduced by applying knowledge information regarding the data stored in the tables databases and systems. Because each of the databases in the systems may be familiar with the data the databases may know which fields are most likely to be duplicated and which fields may indicate the existence of the duplicate data.

Duplication identification system may identify one or more reference fields step . As illustrated in numerous reference field data may exist throughout a plurality of systems databases and tables. After identifying the one or more reference fields duplication identification system may retrieve the identified one or more reference fields.

After duplication identification system identifies and retrieves the one or more reference fields duplication identification system may transform the one or more reference fields into one or more reference fingerprint patterns step . The transformation of the one or more reference fields into one or more reference fingerprint patterns may occur based on several rules. All letters e.g. A to Z may be transformed into the letter A. In addition all numbers e.g. 0 to 9 may be transformed into the number 9. All other possible characters may be transformed according to additional rules e.g. spaces and special characters may be transformed into or they may not be transformed and may be left unchanged. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any number of fingerprint transformation rules may exist and each rule may include any combination of one or more transformations.

After transforming the one or more reference fields into one or more reference fingerprint patterns duplication identification system may identify one or more target fields that include one or more data values step . As illustrated in target fields corresponding to reference field customer number may be called for example account nbr acct nbr aggr cust nbr etc. and each target field name may occur one or more times.

After identifying the one or more target fields duplication identification system may retrieve the identified one or more target fields. Duplication identification system may retrieve a sample of target field values and data values corresponding to each target field stored in tables and databases of systems . For example duplication identification system may retrieve 1 000 samples of target field values and their corresponding data values and store these values in memory . In addition to retrieving and storing samples of target field values and data values duplication identification system may also search individual tables databases and systems without storing the samples of data values in memory .

After duplication identification system identifies and retrieves the one or more target fields duplication identification system may transform the one or more target fields into one or more target fingerprint patterns step . In order to prepare the target fields for transformation duplication identification system may determine that the target fields should include data values containing a desired number of characters and digits. This desired number can be predetermined by duplication identification system or may be selected or input by a user of duplication identification system at for example I O . The target fields and corresponding data values may be representative of specific information in a reference field such as for example a customer number customer address customer number tracking number etc. These target fields are likely to include duplicate data.

The transformation of the one or more target fields into a target fingerprint pattern may occur based on several rules. All letters e.g. A to Z may be transformed into the letter A. In addition all numbers e.g. 0 to 9 may be transformed into the number 9. All other possible characters may be transformed according to additional rules e.g. spaces and special characters may be transformed into or they may not be transformed and may be left unchanged. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any number of fingerprint transformation rules may exist and each rule may include any combination of one or more transformations.

After duplication identification system identifies and retrieves the target field values and data values duplication identification system may compare the target fingerprint patterns of the target fields with the reference fingerprint patterns of the reference fields step . For example duplication identification system may compare overlapping fingerprint patterns between the reference field values and the target field values.

As previously stated duplication identification system may generate reference fingerprint patterns corresponding to the reference fields and target fingerprint patterns corresponding to the target fields. For example duplication identification system may transform reference field values including at least one letter or number into a pattern of A s and 9 s. In addition duplication identification system may transform target field values including at least one letter into a pattern of A s and target field values including at least one number into a pattern of 9 s.

Duplication identification system may search for one or more fingerprint patterns. For example duplication identification system may search only for fingerprint pattern 999999. Based on this search criteria duplication identification system may search all transformed reference field values and target field values that match fingerprint pattern 999999. In addition duplication identification system may also search all transformed reference field values and target field values that match fingerprint patterns 9 99 999 9999 and 99999. However according to this example duplication identification system may not search for transformed reference field values and target field values that include more than six digits or transformed data values and data values that include characters other than 9. 

One of ordinary skill would appreciate that duplication identification system may search for any number of fingerprint patterns including for example fingerprint patterns that match a number of digits of a search pattern fingerprint patterns that include a number of digits that are less than or equal to a number of digits of a search pattern fingerprint patterns that include a number of digits that are greater than or equal to a number of digits of a search pattern fingerprint patterns that include only numbers or letters and fingerprint patterns that include both numbers and letters.

According to an exemplary embodiment duplication identification system may search for all fingerprint patterns that include up to six 9 s. Therefore all reference and target field values that include 9 99 999 9999 99999 and 999999 would include potential duplicate data. However reference and target field values that include more than six 9 s would not be candidates for duplicate data based on this search criteria. In addition reference and target field values that include one or more A s would also not be candidates.

After duplication identification system searches for potential duplicate data among the transformed reference field values and target field values duplication identification system may determine overlaps between the transformed target field values and reference field values step .

If at least one overlap exists duplication identification system may score each sampled target field value and data value with the target fingerprint pattern. Duplication identification system may score a sample match target match and match probability. To score the sample match duplication identification system may determine the number of sample data values that match the target field value fingerprint pattern and divide this number by the total number of searched or sampled data values. For example if duplication identification system searches 4 000 samples of data values that may match target fingerprint pattern 999999 2 000 samples may match the target field value fingerprint pattern. Therefore the sample match score would be calculated by dividing 2 000 sample data value matches by the 4 000 searched data value samples. This results in a sample match score of 0.5 or 50 . This score may represent the maximum percentage of sample data values that could match the target fingerprint pattern.

To score the target match duplication identification system may determine the number of sample target field values that match the target field value fingerprint pattern. For example if duplication identification system searches 1 000 samples of target field values that may match target fingerprint pattern 999999 500 samples may match the target field value fingerprint pattern. Therefore the target match score would be calculated by dividing 500 sample target field value matches by the 1 000 searched target field value samples. This results in a sample target field value score of 0.5 or 50 . This score may represent the maximum percentage of sample target field values that could match the target fingerprint pattern. Using a target match may help avoid the situation where patterns of sampled data values match a rare pattern of the target field.

To score the match probability duplication identification system may multiply the sample match score and the target match score. According to the above example the match score may be calculated by multiplying the sample match score of 50 and the sample target field value score of 50 . This results in a match probability of 0.25 or 25 . The match probability may help the ensure a strong match of both target field values and data values.

After comparing the fingerprint patterns of the target field values and data values duplication identification system may compare detailed data values step . Depending on the match probability data values contained in the tables and databases may be duplicated. For example if the match probability is 0.10 there is a likelihood of duplicate data. One of ordinary skill would appreciate the numerous different match probabilities may be used and are within the scope of this disclosure.

If a desired match probability exists the sampled target field values and data values may be joined to determine duplicate data. After joining the data duplication identification system may score each joined target field value and data value. Scoring may include determining a detailed match percentage and using the detail match to generate a final score.

For example duplication identification system may determine the number of overlapping or duplicate sampled target field values and data values. This number of duplicate values may be referred to as detailed matches. The number of detailed matches may be divided by the number of sample data values that match the target field value fingerprint pattern. For example if 100 detailed matches exist and 4 000 samples of data values match the target fingerprint pattern e.g. 999999 the detailed match percentage may be calculated by dividing 100 by 4 000. This results in a detailed match percentage of 0.025 or 2.5 .

After calculating the detailed match percentage a final score may be calculated by multiplying the detailed match percentage by the match probability. According to the above example the detailed match percentage of 2.5 multiplied by the match probability of 25 results in a final score of 0.00625 or 0.625 .

Duplication identification system may have a predetermined final score that indicates the existence of duplicate data. Conversely the user of duplication identification system may select or input a desired final score. Based on the predetermined or user defined final score duplication identification system may determine if a desired amount of duplicate data exists. If the desired amount exists duplication identification system may present a corresponding indication on I O . In addition duplication identification system may also generate and present the corresponding duplicate data and an indication of the location of the duplicate data e.g. the location of the tables databases and systems on I O .

After generating and presenting the duplicate data and an indication of the location of the duplicate data duplication identification system may identify and retrieve target field values and data values again for different fingerprint patterns.

While certain features and embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. Furthermore although aspects of embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on or read from other types of tangible non transitory computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in various ways including by reordering steps and or inserting or deleting steps without departing from the principles of the invention.

It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents.

