---

title: Management of actions based on priority levels and calendar entries
abstract: A management application implemented in a computational device maintains priorities corresponding to a plurality of resources coupled to the computational device. Indications for actions to be performed corresponding to occurrences of events are stored to a calendar, wherein the calendar is configurable by a user. A selected indication for an action to be performed is stored to the calendar. In response to an occurrence of an event associated with a selected resource, a priority of the selected resource is determined. The action is performed, based on at least the determined priority of the selected resource and the selected indication for the action stored in the calendar, wherein different actions are performed in response to occurrences of a selected event at different times.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494931&OS=08494931&RS=08494931
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08494931
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100708
---
The disclosure relates to a method a system and a computer program product for the management of actions based on priority levels and calendar entries.

A computing environment may include a plurality of resources wherein the resources may comprise physical servers virtual servers clients storage devices operating systems other software systems etc. A computational device that manages the plurality of resources may be coupled to the plurality of resources via one or more networks.

Systems management software that executes within the computational device may be used to manage the plurality of resources included in the computing environment. The systems management software may generate notifications in response to failures associated with one or more of the plurality of resources. In certain situations the systems management software may forward such notifications to an administrator of the computing environment. On receiving such notifications the administrator may take appropriate actions to resolve the failures associated with the one or more of the plurality of resources.

Provided are a method a system and a computer program product in which a management application implemented in a computational device maintains priorities corresponding to a plurality of resources coupled to the computational device. Indications for actions to be performed corresponding to occurrences of events are stored to a calendar wherein the calendar is configurable by a user. A selected indication for an action to be performed is stored to the calendar. In response to an occurrence of an event associated with a selected resource a priority of the selected resource is determined. The action is performed based on at least the determined priority of the selected resource and the selected indication for the action stored in the calendar wherein different actions are performed in response to occurrences of a selected event at different times.

In additional embodiments the indication for the action indicates which action is to be performed or how the action is to be performed. In certain embodiments the action is a notification action wherein at least an electronic communication address of the user is indicated in the calendar to notify the user during a selected time period. An alternate user to send the notification action to if the user is unavailable during the selected time period is also indicated. Furthermore in response to an occurrence of an event during the selected time period and unavailability of the user during the selected time period the notification action is sent to the alternate user.

In further embodiments the selected resource is a first resource wherein the first resource is of a higher priority than a second resource and wherein the event is a failure event. In response to the failure event associated with the first resource the first resource is continued to be maintained and a telephonic message is sent to an administrator indicating the failure event associated with the first resource. In response to another failure event associated with the second resource operation of the second resource is suspended and an electronic mail to report the suspending of the operation of the second resource is sent.

In certain embodiments customer contract information details are maintained in the calendar. In response to exceeding contracted customer services for a customer a notification is sent to the customer for additional payments in response to an occurrence of an event associated with a resource owned or leased by the customer.

In further embodiments the plurality of resources include a server a client a storage device an operating system and a network. The priorities are maintained in a resource priority data structure maintained in the computational device and a selected plurality of resources are grouped into a resource group wherein all resources of the resource group have the same priority. Additionally actions are determined based on a plurality of predetermined policies stored in the computational device wherein different actions are performed in response to an event associated with a selected resource based on a relationship of the selected resource to other resources.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which illustrate several embodiments. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and operational changes may be made.

A systems management software determines the importance of resources such as servers storage devices software systems etc. that are maintained in a computing environment. If a failure in the computing environment is caused by any resource then based on the importance of the resource and other predetermined policies the systems management software determines what action to perform. In certain situations the action to perform may include determining whether or not to send a notification when to send the notification and whom to send the notification. A calendar is provided to designate a person who is responsible for maintaining a resource and to determine an appropriate task to run depending on the time of the day.

Certain resources may be categorized as mission critical resources and a failure of such mission critical resources may cost customers significantly more money in terms of lost revenues in comparison to other resources that are not mission critical resources. In certain situations the resources that are not mission critical may be used for testing or may otherwise be less important in comparison to mission critical resources. Different actions may have to be performed based on the importance of resources. Exemplary actions that may have to be performed may include rebooting a resource such as a computational device installing a patch on computational device to repair a software problem and or sending a notification action to appropriate system administrators.

In certain situations system administrators may desire that they be notified at any time of the day about problems on high priority resources wherein the mission critical resources may be designated as high priority resources. However system administrators may not want to be notified during non working hours about problems with non high priority resources such as test systems and applications. Additionally system administrators may want the problems fixed on high priority resources as soon as possible but may not want to pay for the additional cost to have non high priority resources fixed expeditiously.

Continuous operation of servers may be critical for many businesses and system administrators may need to be notified immediately when there is a problem that needs to be addressed. It is possible that a single administrator may not want to be notified at all times. However this means multiple administrators have to get notifications or multiple administrators have to check the same account. Another approach is to have a pager or a cellular phone that is passed around to the administrator on call. System administrators often have to carry around multiple pagers or cellular phones since they may have a shared pager cellular phone when they are on call in addition to their own personal pager cellular phone . Additionally the administrator on call may not be available at the time the pager cellular phone provides a notification. Furthermore the person who is to be notified may differ depending on the time of day. Certain embodiments provide a calendar to determine which administrator to notify based on the time of the day.

The coupling of the computational device to the plurality of resources . . . may be over a network wherein the network may be any network known in the art such as the Internet an intranet a Local area network LAN a Storage area network SAN a Wide area network WAN a wireless network etc. The computational device may alternatively be connected to the resources . . . without a network such as through direct lines common bus systems etc. in a manner known in the art. Also the network may be part of one or more larger networks or may be an independent network or may be comprised of multiple interconnected networks. In certain embodiments the computational device and the resources . . . of may be a cloud component part included in a cloud computing environment.

A plurality of notification receivers . . . may receive notifications from the computational device over the network wherein the notifications may include the status of resources . . . that are coupled to the computational device . The notification receivers . . . may comprise computational devices and communication devices such as telephones pagers etc. Users and administrators may use the notification receivers . . . to receive the notifications from the computational device .

The computational device includes a management application a resource priority data structure an environment monitoring application exemplary policies and a configurable calendar . The management application maintains for a plurality of resources . . . a plurality of priority indicators . . . wherein a priority indicator provides the priority of a resource. The management application is more likely to send urgent notifications to the notification receivers . . . in response to a failure of a resource that has a higher priority in comparison to another resource that has a lower priority. In certain alternative embodiments the resources . . . may comprise resource groups wherein a resource group has a plurality of resources. The environment monitoring application may monitor the priorities assigned to the resources . . . and may change the priorities based on events that occur in the computing environment .

The exemplary policies stored in the computational device may be predetermined and may be used in addition to the priority indicators by the management application to determine an action to perform in response to events associated with resources that occur in the computing environment . The configurable calendar may maintain mappings between events and notification actions based on the exemplary policies including policies that change based on the time of the day. For example notification actions may be sent at night via telephone to an administrator in response to failure events of resources having a high priority whereas no notification actions may be sent at night in response to failure events of resources having a low priority.

While shows the configurable calendar to be located within the computational device in alternative embodiments the configurable calendar may be located external to the computational device . For example the configurable calendar may be a shared calendar that is located on a server that is different from the computational device wherein a plurality of computational devices may access the shared calendar via the server.

The management application may maintain priorities corresponding to the categorized resources . In certain embodiments in response to a failure of any resources within the category of high importance resources wherein the high importance resources have the highest priority a call home action is performed wherein the call home action sends a telephonic message to a user or administrator to indicate the failure of a resource within the category of high importance resources . However in case of a failure of a test resource a non urgent notification may be sent via electronic mail via a notify via email action .

In an exemplary embodiment the time of day week year factor may store information such that during office hours instant messages may be sent to the administrator whereas when the office is closed emails may be sent to the administrator.

In another exemplary embodiment the related resources factor may store information such that an exemplary hardware is usually low priority but if a high priority workload is relocated to the exemplary hardware then the exemplary hardware inherits the workload s high priority.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the historical resource behavior factor may store information such that if a resource is of low priority but has a frequent history of problems then the priority of the resource is increased so that attention is readily obtained for fixing the resource.

Exemplary test system policies may be used to call an administrator home only during work hours and queue any serviceable events that occur at night and on weekends. In alternative embodiments an instant message IM notification may be sent during work hours and an email at night and on weekends. In certain embodiments certain selected problems may be marked as low priority. Additionally in certain embodiments a selected resource such as a server may be allowed to be accessed by all members of the test and development team.

Exemplary production system policies may be used to call an administrator home at any time i.e. both during work hours and during non work hours and designated as 24 7 in . In alternative embodiments an instant message notification may be sent during work hours and a paging notification may be sent at night and on weekends. In additional embodiments certain selected problems may be marked as high priority. For production server policies may limit access to the production server to system administrators and only senior administrators may be authorized to remove the production server from deployment.

Exemplary transition from test to production policies may be used to simplify notification and serviceability policies when transitioning between lifecycle stages of a resource. For example a virtual server and its hardware may be instantly altered from a test system to a production system by changing a property of the system.

Exemplary vendor support escalation policies may be used to enable new business aspects for deployment within the computing environment . For example a contract may specify that a customer gets ten urgent repair work performed per year with subsequent repair work incurring a charge. A notification may be provided that lets the administrator approve the additional amounts of money to be changed to the customer after the ten urgent repair works have been performed and additional repair works are needed.

The configurable calendar associates events with resources shown via reference numeral based on customer contract information based policies and other policies wherein certain exemplary policies were shown in . The actions performed as a result of events associated with resources may include resource deletion actions user notification actions customer notification actions and other actions . In the resource deletion action a resource that has failed may be removed or disabled within the computing environment . In the user notification action a notification may be sent to a primary user and or and alternate delegated user . The configurable calendar may also store email addresses phone numbers etc. corresponding to the users to whom notifications are to be sent.

In certain embodiments the configurable calendar may run appropriate tasks based on the time of the day. The configurable calendar may receive emails or other notifications which trigger a task mapping analysis and runs the appropriate task.

In additional embodiments a user may determine the overall goal for the calendar . The user may update calendar entries to indicate how notifications and other tasks should be achieved based on the time of day. The calendar is also machine readable such that software programs can either analyze and perform the proper tasks or notify the calendar and have the calendar perform the tasks.

In certain embodiments customers users administrators may have a shift schedule in some format that specifies who is responsible for maintaining each of the resources. Certain embodiments map the shift schedule to the calendar wherein the calendar includes the desired behaviors at various hours of the day. This calendar is then queried when an event occurs and a notification is generated. When a notification occurs instead of having a fixed person mapped to a resource the calendar may be used to look up the person on call and then a notification may be sent to the person who is on call. It may also be possible to have multiple people on call who are notified in different formats.

In one embodiment the following operations may be built into the management application to implement the calendar . In such embodiments in response to a severe serviceable event occurring on a resource the management application catches the event and then looks up who is on call for that server in the calendar . The calendar program offers scheduling details such as who to contact during a particular time and how to contact e.g. email forwarding during day text from 8 pm 11 pm etc. . Severity mapping to automate escalation procedures may be implemented and such severity mapping may be mapped to time of day e.g. Person A is responsible for critical errors all day Person B is responsible for system warnings 8 am 5 pm etc. . The calendar sends a notification to the appropriate user or users in the preferred format.

In another embodiment the calendar is used with a management application that does not natively support the calendar . However the management application is able to send email. In this case the administrator may enter the email for the calendar into the management application and then specify the body of the notification. Once the calendar receives the trigger email the calendar parses the information in the email to notify the people specified by the calendar .

In another embodiment an end user notification preference mapping is performed to set the calendar to infer the proper notification format. For example a selected user can dynamically set the notification preference based on a personal calendar. Using the calendar a user may schedule attending movie from 8 11 pm Friday. Text notify. and at the same time send an invitation email to the calendar . When the calendar processes the configured preference the calendar sends a text instead of full email or phone call while the user is at the movie.

Control starts at block in which a management application implemented in a computational device maintains priorities corresponding to a plurality of resources . . . coupled to the computational device . Indications for actions to be performed corresponding to occurrences of events are stored at block to a calendar wherein the calendar is configurable by a user.

Control proceeds to block wherein a selected indication for an action to be performed is stored to the calendar . In response to an occurrence of an event associated with a selected resource a priority of the selected resource is determined at block . The action is performed at block based on at least the determined priority of the selected resource and the selected indication for the action stored in the calendar wherein different actions are performed in response to occurrences of a selected event at different times. For example in an exemplary embodiment if event X occurs between 10 AM to 3 PM an additional processor may be added whereas if event X occurs between 3 PM to 8 PM a server may be suspended.

Therefore illustrates certain embodiments in which priorities of resources are used to perform different actions at different times of the day based on indications stored in a calendar. The actions illustrated in may be notifications or some other types of actions such as rebooting a server installing a software patch etc. Also in certain embodiments different actions are performed in response to a selected event associated with a selected resource based on a relationship of the selected resource to other resources. For example in certain embodiments if a selected resource such as a network device has a hardware issue then if the network device is connected to test systems an administrator is emailed so that the administrator can repair the network device whereas if the network device is connected to production systems the hardware issues are emailed to a supporting vendor to replace the network device with a replacement device as soon as possible.

Control starts at block in which customer contract information details policies are maintained in the calendar. A determination is made at block as to whether an event such as a failure event associated with a resource owned or leased by the customer has occurred. If so control proceeds to block in which a determination is made as to whether contracted customer services for the customer have been exceeded. For example the customer may only be entitled to five free system repairs and a sixth failure event may cause the contracted customer services to be exceeded. If at block no event associated with a resource owned or leased by the customer occurs then control is maintained No branch from block at block until such an event occurs.

In response to exceeding contracted customer services for a customer Yes branch from block a notification is sent at block to the customer for additional payments. If contracted customer services have not been exceeded No branch from block control proceeds to block in which a notification is sent to the customer if such notifications are indicated by policies in effect.

Therefore illustrates certain embodiments in which a management application may determine how to notify and charge a customer based on predetermined contracted customer service agreements made with the customer in the event of a failure of resources owned leased or operated by the customer.

Control starts at block in which an indication is made of at least an electronic communication address of a user in the calendar to notify the user during a selected time period. An alternate user is also indicated at block to send the notification action if the user is unavailable during the selected time period.

In response to the occurrence of an event associated with a resource during the selected time period a determination is made at block as to whether the user is available during the selected time period. If so then notification is sent at block to the user. If not then notification is sent at block to the alternate user.

Therefore illustrates certain embodiments in which users may configure the calendar such that different users may receive notifications at different time periods. The provision of an alternate user in case of unavailability of a primary user is also incorporated into the calendar .

The described operations may be implemented as a method apparatus or computer program product using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. Accordingly aspects of the embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the embodiments may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied there.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . Java is a trademark or registered trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In certain embodiments the computational device and the resources . . . of may be cloud component parts included in a cloud computing environment. In the cloud computing environment the systems architecture of the hardware and software components involved in the delivery of cloud computing may involve a plurality of cloud components communicating with each other. For example in certain embodiments the computational device of may provide clients and other servers and software and or hardware components in the networked cloud with storage and data processing services. The computational device may provide reliable storage services and access to the resources . . . to meet quality of service requirements for customers in the cloud. The computational device may communicate with clients to provide storage and other services for the resources . . . through a web interface or other application programming interface.

Certain embodiments may be directed to a method for deploying computing instruction by a person or automated processing integrating computer readable code into a computing system wherein the code in combination with the computing system is enabled to perform the operations of the described embodiments.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the present invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention.

Further although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the present invention need not include the device itself.

At least certain operations that may have been illustrated in the figures show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

