---

title: Personalized messaging on web inserts
abstract: A method is provided for rendering a personal message sent by a sender for a recipient. The method includes: receiving the personal message by a processing software component of a server of a communications network; detecting, by the server, a connection of the recipient to an information rendering space; and replacing an advertisement insert display by the message subsequently to the connection of the recipient as a function of at least one rendering parameter accompanying the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984070&OS=08984070&RS=08984070
owner: Orange
number: 08984070
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20101215
---
The present disclosure pertains to the field of interpersonal communications. The disclosure pertains more specifically to the transmission of messages between users. More particularly the disclosure pertains to the transmission of information messages to users in a communications network.

An information message can be distinguished from advertisement or spam type messages unsolicited by the user.

It is now common to transmit and receive messages. Such messages are generally transmitted in the form of formatted data exchanged between users of terminals that are linked up to communications networks that are themselves interconnected. The disclosure is aimed at proposing a novel method for transmitting information messages between a sender and an intended recipient to whom this message is sent.

Classically a sender in a communications network has several solutions or solutions available when he wishes to transmit a message to an intended recipient through a communications network. A first solution which is a basic solution is that of calling the recipient through a telephone terminal and vocally imparting the information to be given to him. A second solution which is equally classic but technologically more recent consists of the transmission of an SMS Short Message Service type short message to a terminal of the intended recipient. The recipient can receive this message either through a mobile telecommunications terminal or a land line communications terminal subscribing to a service for receiving such messages or again through a personal computer. A third solution is a solution for transmitting an electronic mail message or email message to the intended recipient when he or she has a valid electronic mail or email address. In a fourth solution a message is transmitted through an instantaneous messaging application.

A fifth solution which is currently very popular is that of transmitting messages through personal pages in social networks. Social networks of this kind such as Facebook Pikeo etc. enable users to belong to communities and transmit messages to all or part of the recipients belonging to any one of the communities to which the sender belongs. One of the main attractions of these social networks for the sender is that he has the greatest possible number of recipients available. It will be understood however that the number of messages sent to a recipient is very great and that it can be difficult for a recipient to distinguish between interesting and uninteresting messages.

Other solutions exist. There is however one characteristic common to all these solutions it is difficult or even impossible in certain cases to enable reception by the recipient of a message sent from a given platform on a platform other than the one originally chosen. In other words it is difficult for example to receive an SMS message sent from a mobile terminal on a PC that has no specific application or service. Similarly it is difficult to receive an email message sent from a PC on a classic type of mobile terminal i.e. a simple terminal that can receive only SMS or MMS messages i.e. a terminal that is not a smartphone . Now it is true that many users have every means of message transmission and reception at their disposal mobile terminals land line terminals email messaging services instantaneous messaging services . However it is tedious for a recipient to have to check all these resources to find out whether or not a new message has been received.

Moreover these message sending and receiving means are being increasingly clogged with unsolicited messages. For it is becoming increasingly difficult to avoid reception of advertisement messages for example. Electronic mailboxes are containing an ever increasing number of advertisement messages so that it is becoming difficult to spot among these advertisement messages those messages truly sent to the recipient by a sender known to him or to her.

Thus incidentally the message has totally lost its value as a vector of data transmission between users since it is buried in a whole set of messages that are most frequently unsolicited by the recipient. In addition to the technological barriers that prevent messages from being transmitted from one platform to a terminal connected to another platform the inventors have noted that the value of the message per se has truly diminished to the extent where certain recipients no longer even pay any attention to the messages that they might receive on such and such a platform. This is true of messages received by email which are increasingly being seen as an outdated vector for the transmission of information.

The inventors have thus observed that it is urgent to propose a novel means of message transmission and reception that can be used to emphasize a particular event so that the message is not diluted in the mass of messages received by the user.

An exemplary embodiment of the disclosure does not have these drawbacks of the prior art. More particularly an exemplary embodiment pertains to a method for rendering a personal message sent by a sender for a recipient.

Thus an embodiment of the disclosure can be used to replace the display of advertisements in advertisement inserts by personal messages transmitted by senders. An embodiment of the disclosure thus provides for a novel way to view personal messages.

According to one particular embodiment said method further comprises a step for creating said message comprising 

Thus the sender of the message can check on the rendering of this message. Unlike the prior art techniques which do not ensure the way in which the message has been rendered an embodiment of the disclosure provides the sender of the message with a greater degree of control over the rendering.

According to one particular embodiment said at least one parameter of rendering of said at least one message belongs to the group comprising at least 

Thus the sender is in a position to select the web service for example a social network service a temporal parameter for example a date and or a time and or a duration of display a parameter of visibility to the recipient alone the recipient and his or her contacts or everybody and or know whether it is necessary to notify the recipient.

According to one particular characteristic said method further comprises a step for processing said personal message by means of a web service for managing personal messages connected to said communications network said step for receiving comprising 

According to one particular characteristic said step for processing said personal message by means of said web service for managing personal messages further comprises prior to said step for transmitting said message a step for adapting a format for rendering said message as a function of at least one parameter of display of advertisement inserts of said server.

Thus the format of the message can be adapted to the format of display of the advertisements in advertisement inserts within servers which assume the task of displaying the personal message for the recipient.

In another embodiment the disclosure pertains to a computer program product downloadable from a communications network and or stored in a computer readable carrier and or executable by a microprocessor and comprising program code instructions for the implementation of the above mentioned method for rendering when said program is executed on a computer.

The disclosure also pertains to a server for processing a personal message sent by a sender for a recipient. According to an embodiment of the disclosure such a server comprises 

According to a particular embodiment said server further comprises means for adapting a format of said message as a function of at least one advertisement insert display parameter.

In another embodiment the disclosure also pertains to a system for processing a personal message. According to an aspect of the disclosure such a system comprises 

Thus an embodiment of the disclosure makes it possible to have available a system for processing personal messages composed by senders to enable the display of advertisement inserts to be replaced by messages coming from users of the communications network.

An illustrative embodiment of the disclosure proposes to at least partially replace the display surface of a screen usually reserved for the display of advertisements which moreover are unsolicited by the recipient by a specific message coming from a sender. Thus an embodiment of the disclosure makes it possible to mix the use of the information display surfaces of a screen and make available a new mean of disseminating a message. An embodiment of the disclosure is aimed at proposing a novel type of message which may be called an event related personal message the transmission vector of which is a surface of the screen of the recipient s terminal that is not habitually used to transmit messages.

According to one particular embodiment the surface of the screen of the recipient s terminal is a surface generally used to display one or more advertisements also called advertisement banners. Thus an embodiment of the disclosure replaces the function of these advertisement inserts by a function that is more personal and more entertaining for the user. According to one particular characteristic the duration of appearance of the sender s event related personal message is limited in time so that the surface of the screen is not constantly dedicated to the display of event related personal messages.

Thus the inventors have noted that when the event related personal message EPM is displayed instead of an advertisement banner the rate of viewing and response to subsequent advertisements displayed after the display of the personal message has ended is higher than it is when no personal message is displayed. Consequently an embodiment of the disclosure paradoxically increases the rate of visibility of the advertisements messages displayed on the screens of the terminals even though the invention at least temporarily removes the display of these advertisements. Moreover an embodiment of the disclosure also makes it possible to counter advertisement blocking steps which may be set up by the recipients. Indeed there are many means by which a user can eliminate the advertisements displayed on the screen of a terminal. Thus when the user utilizes an Internet browser on a personal computer or a fairly basic mobile terminal it is possible to install an advertisement block within this browser. The main feature of such a block is that it prevents the display of contents coming from certain URLs Uniform Resource Locators from distributors of advertisements. Among such tools we may mention Adblock . Now since event related personal messages are displayed instead of advertisements if the recipient wishes to access these personal messages he is obliged to deactivate his advertisement block. Since this block is deactivated the advertisement will be activated and the operator of the website on which the event related personal messages are displayed will generate additional advertisement income.

The general principle therefore is to at least temporarily replace the display of advertisement messages by the display of event related personal messages. Such replacement can be done in numerous instances and is not limited to the replacement of advertisements. It is thus possible to provide for the display of an event related personal message on any type of information dissemination medium such as a television set a mobile terminal etc.

Here below we shall present especially the case of an implementation of this replacement in social network type applications. It is clear however that the present disclosure is not limited to this particular application but can also be implemented in many other cases for example when the replacement is managed by an advertising agency platform such as GoogleAds and more generally whenever the objectives listed here below are worthwhile.

In this embodiment we present the implementation of an embodiment of the disclosure by means of a social network application such as Facebook . The principle of these social network applications is to enable users to remain in contact with recipients belonging to one or more groups of contacts. Referring to we present a detailed drawing of the main characteristics of a personal page of such an application. The page is divided into several distinct zones a selection zone enabling the selection of various parameters name profile friends etc of access to the user s account for the social network application. The page also contains a sub applications zone used to display a possible depiction of the recipient the user s various sub applications . The page contains a zone for displaying messages in which the user s messages and those of his different contacts are displayed so that the user can simply view the messages left by his contacts as well as possible responses. Finally the page contains an advertisement zone displaying advertisements e.g. Pub Pub for products or services in the form of advertisement banners which are generally clickable.

The object of an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure is to enable the display of a personal message in one of the advertisement banners of page . The method is described with reference to . To carry out the method the sender who wishes to display such a message on the page of one of his correspondents an intended recipient of the message implements the method of this embodiment for 

For its part the web service in question SW installed on a processing server not shown receives the event related personal message as well as its parameters from the user. By means of the API Application Programming Interface it transmits the message and its parameters to the appropriate services SWA SWA etc of the social network application or applications concerned A A etc . This transmission can advantageously take the form of a request for replacement of a display of an advertisement insert by the message. The request then includes the message and the display parameters. This display may be an HTTP request containing the necessary data. The social network applications receive the message and its parameters and take responsibility for displaying the message when the recipient logs in on one of these applications. Prior to this transmission the web service SW using resources made available by the processing server may carry out one or more modifications in the message in order to adapt it to the specific characteristics of the social network applications selected by the user.

According to a specific embodiment the web service SW transmits the message and its parameters to an advertisement application AA responsible for displaying the message. Indeed it often happens that social network applications do not themselves manage the advertisement banners displayed on the pages. The social network applications generally restrict themselves to specifying a display format for the advertisements. The advertisement application is often the transmission vector of the advertisement depending on its advertisers and depending as the case may be circumstantially on the action of the users or on the content of the messages present on the user s page. In such a situation it is therefore appropriate to directly transmit the message to the advertising agency RP so it can display it .

Be that as it may the display is made according to conditions specified by the user. In other embodiments to compensate for possible loss of income due to the replacement of the advertisement by a personal message the transmission of the personal message for display may be preceded by a payment on the part of the sender.

For the intended recipient of the message after having received a preliminary alert message if any for example an SMS message he can view this message on the home page of his social network application. The display is prompted firstly as a function of parameters selected by the user when creating the message and secondly after authentication of the recipient so that he can access the social network application. Once the message has been consulted by the recipient for example by clicking on it or at the end of a certain period of time an acknowledgement is transmitted by the web service SW to the sender and then the advertisement insert resumes its original function the message vanishes and is replaced by a conventional advertisement.

Although the present embodiment has been described with reference to messages requiring a display the disclosure can also be implemented by means of a voice message which would be given when the recipient links up to the specified service.

For the sender of the event related personal message the advantage of this solution is that it proposes an innovative way of marking events by sending messages in an original manner.

For the service provider using the web service SW an embodiment of the disclosure is an ideal vector to convey a brand image through messages sent by users. It is indeed possible for the service provider SW to put his manufacturer s brand on the event related personal messages so as to propose a link to a website dedicated to his service when the recipient clicks on the message in question.

For the host web service for example the social network application an embodiment of the disclosure provides an innovative advanced communications function that pleases existing users and helps recruit new users.

According to one particular embodiment the disclosure also pertains to a system for processing personal messages comprising 

This processing server has a role of an intermediate gateway platform between the user s terminal and the processing server. This server can also be responsible for invoicing the sender for this service.

The rendering server and the processing server may be two logic servers installed within a same physical server. They may also be implemented on two separate physical servers.

Referring now to we present an embodiment of a processing device according to an embodiment of the disclosure. Such a device may be an applications server implementing one or more web services such as the one presented here above which may interact with other communications network servers.

Such a device has a memory consisting of a buffer memory a processing unit equipped for example with a microprocessor and driven by the computer program implementing at least certain steps of the rendering method according to an embodiment of the disclosure.

At initialization the code instructions of the computer program are for example loaded into a RAM and then executed by a processor of the processing unit . The processing unit inputs at least one piece of information I such as neighborhood data coming from a routing apparatus. The microprocessor of the processing unit implements some of the steps of the rendering method described here above according to the instructions of the computer program to deliver a piece of processed information T such as the request for replacing the display of an advertisement insert. To this end the device comprises in addition to the buffer memory means for receiving by means of a processing software component the personal message sent out by a sending user and means for detecting a connection of said recipient from an information rendering space.

Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to one or more examples workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the disclosure and or the appended claims.

