---

title: Integration of remote electronic device with media local area network
abstract: A server is provided. The server comprises a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor, receives a progressively uploaded media stream from a remote electronic device. The application also converts the progressively uploaded media stream from a first format to a second format and buffers the converted media stream. The application also transmits the buffered converted media stream to a bridge into a media local area network based on a mapping of the remote electronic device to the media local area network, wherein the mapping is stored in the memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118934&OS=09118934&RS=09118934
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09118934
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100118
---
Electronic devices may use the simple service discovery protocol SSDP to announce their presence and exchange messages with other devices on a media local area network LAN . The simple service discovery protocol is a multicast protocol and may be used by consumer devices operating under universal plug and play UPnP conventions. Mobile and stationary consumer devices may be used in home networks. For example a computer storing media may send photographs to a picture frame device for display. Devices may use the simple service discovery protocol to multicast their identity their device type their functionality and their availability. Devices may multicast video files audio files and digital picture files for sharing with other devices in the media local area network. Devices may also use the simple service discovery protocol to discover and communicate with supporting peripheral devices on their own networks such as printers and storage devices. The simple service discovery protocol also promotes interoperability and content sharing between devices in a home network. The simple service discovery protocol may extend the communications capabilities of the television and other traditionally passive consumer home devices to interoperate with computers and other media sharing devices.

In an embodiment a server is provided. The server comprises a processor a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor receives a progressively uploaded media stream from a remote electronic device. The application also converts the progressively uploaded media stream from a first format to a second format and buffers the converted media stream. The application also transmits the buffered converted media stream to a bridge into a media local area network based on a mapping of the remote electronic device to the media local area network wherein the mapping is stored in the memory.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method of linking an external electronic device with a media local area network is provided. The method comprises a management server defining a first mapping from a first electronic device to a second electronic device wherein the first electronic device is internal to the media local area network and the second electronic device is external to the media local area network wherein the mapping is stored in a memory of the management server and wherein the first electronic device communicates with other electronic devices comprising the media local area network using the simple service discovery protocol SSDP . The method also comprises the first electronic device multicasting a first media content on the media local area network and a bridging device internal to the media local area network sending the first media content to the management server. The method also comprises the management server sending the first media content to the second electronic device based on the first mapping. The method also comprises defining a second mapping from the second electronic device to the media local area network wherein the second mapping is stored in the memory of the management server. The method also comprises the second electronic device sending a second media content to the management server and the management server sending the second media content to the bridging device based on the second mapping. The method also comprises the bridging device multicasting the second media content to the media local area network.

In an embodiment a server is provided. The server comprises a processor a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor receives a media stream from a remote electronic device. The server also transcodes the media stream and attenuates a jitter of the media stream by buffering the transcoded media stream. The server also transmits the buffered transcoded media stream to a bridge into a media local area network based on a mapping of the remote electronic device to the media local area network wherein the mapping is stored in the memory.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a system and method of integrating a remote electronic device with a media local area network LAN . A remote electronic device as described herein is not physically present at the media local area network. The remote electronic device for example a mobile telephone may record and transmit electronic content for processing and forwarding to one or a plurality of devices on a home and or other small network. The remote electronic device may record the content in one format and progressively upload the content to a management server where the content is buffered and may be transcoded to a second format. The management server may determine from a database table entry that the content may be forwarded to the media local area network. The management server sends the content to a bridging device that may be a computer associated with the media local area network. The bridging device multicasts messages containing the received content on the media local area network. A device on the media local area network may take possession of the content in the multicasted messages and may begin playing the received content. The media local area network and its devices may observe the digital living network alliance DLNA standard that may be used by manufacturers of electronic devices to allow entertainment and other devices within the home network or small office network to share their content with each other.

A mobile telephone with video recording capability may make video recordings and transmit the video content to the management server that may after locating a database table entry forward the content to the bridging device of the media local area network. The mobile telephone may not address the video content to any final destination device and may rely on the management server to handle forwarding of content. The mobile telephone may record the video in one format and a device that later plays the video may use a different format. The mobile telephone and its transmission links may have technical limitations preventing the device from sending the video content in a continuous stream. The mobile telephone may instead progressively upload the video content to the management server in blocks or chunks that may be of different sizes. The management server buffers the chunks of video content to attenuate jitter in the progressively uploaded media content. The management server may transcode the video content from the format in which the content was received from the mobile telephone to the format displayable by the destination device.

Devices within a media local area network for example televisions picture frame devices media players and common appliances may communicate with each other via multicast messages using the simple service discovery protocol SSDP . When such devices communicate with other devices outside their media local area network their communications may be encapsulated in internet protocol packets because the simple service discovery protocol is a multicast protocol and its packets may not be forwarded by devices outside of the media local area network without encapsulation. When the management server forwards media content generated by the remote electronic device to a device in a media local area network that uses the simple service discovery protocol the management server may send the media content in internet protocol packets to a bridging device on the media local area network. The management server examines database tables for entries that map the remote electronic device to the bridging device. The database tables contain a plurality of entries describing authorized combinations of sending devices and media local area networks represented by bridging devices. The encapsulation by the management server of content originated in one of a plurality of software presentation formats into internet protocol packets permits externally generated content to be delivered to devices on media local area networks using only the simple service discovery protocol.

When media is ready for transmission by the management server the present disclosure additionally teaches an embodiment incorporating the sending of notifications to recipient devices on media local area networks. A plurality of recipient devices may be grouped into a profile. The remote electronic device when sending progressive uploads of media content to the management server may specify a profile instead of having to name specific media local area networks as destinations. Using profiles to designate a grouping of recipient devices instead of individually listing recipient devices or their associated bridging devices in a table containing mappings may improve speed of content delivery and more efficiently use management server processing and memory capacity.

Turning now to a system for integrating a remote electronic device with a media local area network is described. The system comprises a management server a management application media local area networks bridging devices terminals remote electronic devices base transceiver stations and a network .

The management server may be a computer system. Computer systems are discussed in greater detail hereinafter. The management server may comprise one computer or a plurality of computers for example a server farm wherein many server computers cooperate to share a processing load. The management server may comprise a plurality of computers that are located at different places for example to provide geographical diversity and increased service reliability. The functionality of the management server could be provided as a cloud computing infrastructure. The management server executes one or more applications including the management application .

The management server receives progressive uploads of media content from a remote electronic device stores and may transcode the content and sends the content to a media local area network . The media content is then multicasted within the media local area network and a terminal therein may take possession of the media content. The media content may be video and or audio content that is recorded by the remote electronic device for example a mobile telephone with video recording functionality. The remote electronic device records and may progressively upload the media content to the management server in blocks or chunks of electronic content. The management application executing on the management server may cache the blocks of received content as they are received and assemble them in the proper order. The present disclosure teaches a plurality of remote electronic devices progressively uploading content to the management server via base transceiver stations and the forwarding of the content by the management server to media local area networks and their bridging devices for multicast distribution to terminals . Multiple such associations between remote electronic devices and media local area networks may be concurrently supported by the management server . The remote electronic device may wirelessly transmit blocks of content to the management server via the base transceiver stations using the Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Communications System UMTS and or Long term Evolution LTE World wide Interoperable Microwave Access WiMAX and WiFi communications technologies.

Bridging devices are associated with media local area networks respectively and forward messages multicasted by the terminals on their respective media local area networks . The bridging devices may forward all packets received in internal multicasts to the management server regardless of whether the packets are intended for local terminals or are intended for other media local area networks . Bridging devices may be computer systems with processor memory radio transceiver circuitry and installed network adapter cards or embedded network adapter circuitry that may perform a plurality of functions in addition to forwarding packets to the management server . Bridging devices may be network devices such as routers or switches. In an embodiment bridging devices may only perform the tasks of receiving multicast packets encapsulating the packets into internet protocol packets with the internet protocol address of the management server and forwarding the packets to the management server . Bridging devices are configured with internet protocol addresses that are visible to stations outside of the respective media local area networks of the bridging devices . Bridging devices may communicate with the management server using wired links. Bridging devices may communicate wirelessly with the terminals in their respective media local area networks .

The transmissions from the remote electronic device containing content may also include at least one address or other identification of a destination media local area network . The management application may consult a table in an associated database to verify that the remote electronic device is authorized to send the content to the destination media local area network . The management application may send a notification for delivery to the terminal when the received content is ready for distribution. The management application then sends the content to the bridging device on the media local area network wherein the terminal resides. The bridging device then multicasts the content in at least one message within the media local area network whereupon the terminal takes possession of the messages and may begin playing the content.

The remote electronic device may be a mobile telephone or other portable electronic device that may record content and wirelessly transmit the content to a base transceiver station and on to the management server . The remote electronic device may be used in conjunction with another proximate device for example a video camera that records video and transmits the video to the mobile phone whereupon the mobile phone forwards the content to the management server . In an example the user of the remote electronic device may be a man attending his son s soccer game. The man may use the video recording functionality resident on his mobile telephone to record portions of the game for transmission to his son s grandparents at home in a distant city. The grandparents may view the video or still images captured from the video on a television computer or picture frame device in their home. These devices may be on a media local area network wherein the devices or terminals communicate with each other via multicast messaging using the simple service discover protocol SSDP .

The remote electronic device may record video audio and or other content and sends the content to the management server . Because of wireless bandwidth limitations the remote electronic device may not send the recorded content in a live streamed manner to the management server . The remote electronic device may also not send the entire video record of the soccer game in a single transmission. The remote electronic device may rather record cache and transmit the content to the management server in a progressive or segmented fashion. The content may be transmitted in chunks or blocks of equal or unequal sizes that the management server may store in buffer files and assemble into a single continuous file once the content is fully received. As the remote electronic device progressively transmits media content to the management server the remote electronic device also identifies the destinations to which the media content is to be sent. The man in the example using the remote electronic device may designate the destination as one of at least one terminal a profile associated with the grandparents associated with the terminal or the media local area network . The man may also request the management server to send notifications to the terminal or other device to alert the grandparents when the video is available for their viewing and enjoyment.

The management server receives the progressive uploads of content from the remote electronic device caches the progressive uploads in buffer files and assembles the content into one or more final content files when the full content is received. The progressive uploads may be received cached and assembled in various file formats for example in the motion picture experts group version 4 MPEG 4 format for some video and audio content and the motion picture experts group 1 audio layer 3 MP3 for some audio content. The present disclosure teaches the inclusion and application of codec functionality that may convert audio analog signals to digital content and computer digital sound back to audio when appropriate. The codec functionality may encode a data stream or signal for transmission storage or encryption or may decode it for playback or editing. In addition to applying codec functionality buffering and assembling the received content into files the management server also deals with jitter and latency issues associated with the audio video or other content received from the remote electronic device . Jitter and latency may be caused by network congestion timing drift route changes queuing contention and serialization effects on the path from the remote electronic device to the management server . The management application in its buffering of the progressive uploads and assembly of the uploaded content into playable content may apply procedures to correct jitter latency and other problems with the received content.

The remote electronic device may be a mobile phone video camera or audio recorder or other handheld or mobile device operated by a user that may be a consumer or other non professional user of such devices. For this reason as well as technical or environmental reasons such as lighting background noise or interference from other proximate unrelated devices the condition of the content received by the management server may require treatment to correct these problems as well as the aforementioned jitter and latency problems before the content can be processed for transmission to the terminal . If the remote electronic device is in motion while recording and transmitting content for example in an automobile the signal sent by the remote electronic device may shift from the base transceiver station to another base transceiver station . If the remote electronic device is receiving and relaying content from another device for example a video camera there may be additional jitter latency attenuation or other disruptions or degradations of signal quality. The management application may correct for these losses declines or delays in signaling during buffering and content assembly before the content may be ready for further processing and transmission to the terminal .

The management server may not wait until it has received and buffered all of the progressive uploads of content from the remote electronic device before it applies procedures to correct problems with jitter latency and signal quality. Because the content as generated by the remote electronic device may be contained in numbered frames or in another ordered manner that may be sequenced upon receipt the management server during receipt and buffering of the content may begin assembling and testing the content and applying the correction procedures before all progressive uploads are received. This may permit the management server to process the content and have it ready for transmission to the terminal earlier than if it waited until the entire progression of media uploads from the remote electronic device had been received.

When the management server first begins receiving progressive uploads of content from the remote electronic device it may seek to determine that the remote electronic device is authorized to submit the content for forwarding to the media local area network . In the example provided above the man using his mobile phone with video capability records his son playing soccer and initiates transmission of the content to the boy s grandparents for viewing on a device in their home. The management server may consult a table in the database that associates the remote electronic device with the terminal and notes that exchanges between the two devices are authorized. The table may more likely associate the remote electronic device with the media local area network that may contain electronic devices in the grandparents home.

Devices or terminals within the media local area network may initiate communications with each other via multicast using the simple service discovery protocol. Terminals may be unable to communicate with devices outside of their media local area network without their multicast simple service discovery protocol packets being encapsulated into internet protocol IP packets and addressed to specific internet protocol addresses. The bridging device on the media local area network may receive simple service discovery protocol multicast transmissions within the media local area network and by default forward the packets to the management server for its examination and forwarding on to terminals on another media local area network or elsewhere. Messages from devices outside the media local area network intended for terminals inside the media local area network may be transmitted using the internet protocol and initially received by the bridging device . The bridging device may remove the internet protocol packet information and multicast the message within the media local area network using the simple service discovery protocol whereupon the terminal may recognize and take possession of the message. Transmissions between terminals on different media local area networks as well as transmissions between external devices such as the remote electronic devices and the terminals may be encapsulated in internet protocol packets. This application includes subject matter related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 689 081 filed Jan. 18 2010 entitled System and Method for Bridging Media Local Area Networks by Jeremy R. Breau et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 8 254 305B1 issued on Aug. 28 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The tables that contain authorized combinations of senders and recipients of media content may list bridging devices as senders and or as recipients of messages instead of terminals . The bridging devices may have externally facing internet protocol addresses and may receive messages intended for all devices within their respective media local area networks . An external message intended for a terminal on the media local area network may be addressed to the internet protocol address of the bridging device . When the remote electronic device indicates that it wishes media content to be sent to the media local area network its instruction may be interpreted by the management server as sending the media content to the internet protocol address of the bridging device . The management server may not formally know about terminals because the management server may only deal with devices stations and other entities that communicate using the internet protocol and the terminals may use only the simple service discovery protocol. The bridging devices in effect represent the terminals respectively outside of their media local area networks . The tables may describe remote electronic devices that are permitted to send media content to bridging devices .

Terminals that are recipients of messages sent by remote electronic devices may also be grouped in profiles so that the users of the remote electronic devices do not need to remember individual names of recipients the terminals that the recipients use or their respective media local area networks . The management server may contain mappings of individual recipients or groups of recipients to profiles and may map the profiles to the bridging devices associated with the media local area networks with which the recipients are associated. The user of the remote electronic device may enter into his mobile telephone a recipient profile of grandparents and the management server may consult a file that maps this profile to the internet protocol addresses of the bridging device for the soccer playing boy s maternal grandparents and the address of the bridging device for the boy s paternal grandparents. Profiles may provide convenience to parties generating and sending content as well as to recipients of content.

At about the same time or shortly after the management server is receiving and buffering content accessing codec functionality applying other procedures to correct jitter and other content condition problems and checking tables to determine authorization for delivery of content the management server may also perform transcoding of the received content. The remote electronic device recording and sending content and the terminals that receive and play content may not use the same file and presentation formats. For example the man using his mobile phone to record his son s athletic event may record the action using the motion picture experts group MPEG format. The boy s grandparents may view the received content on a terminal for example a television computer or other electronic device that displays the content using a different format for example the windows media center video format. The present disclosure teaches the management server having transcoding functionality to receive content in a plurality of recording formats decode the content and encode the content into a plurality of different playing formats.

Transcoding and application of codec functionality may take place concurrently or as a collection of integrated processes. In addition to transforming the software code of the media content these format conversion actions may additionally comprise video de interlacing audio resampling frame rate conversion smoothing and other procedures that may be known to those skilled in the art. Transcoding may involve decoding the received content to an intermediate format in a way that still contains the content of the original and then encoding the resulting file into the target format. Transcoding may also involve the process of directly changing assembled software code to work on different platforms or operating systems. Because of the diversity of remote electronic devices that may be originating content and the diversity of recipient terminals transcoding may require intermediate states of content adaptation to make certain the source content will adequately play on the target recipient terminals .

In the example described herein the grandparents that are recipients of the video content portraying their grandson s soccer game may have in their home a picture frame device that displays video and audio content. The picture frame device may be connected by a cable to a personal computer executing an operating system and application software that are specialized for presenting video audio and other media to consumer and home users. For example the computer may execute Microsoft Windows Media Center software that may play media content using a Windows media video format another proprietary format or a non proprietary format. Each of these formats used to display the content may differ from the format that the boy s father may use when recording the soccer game. Assuming the management server embarks on its tasks of receiving and buffering the progressive uploads of content from the father s remote electronic device and determining from tables that the remote electronic device is authorized to send content to the media local area network the management server also transcodes the content that may involve the described processes and otherwise prepares the content for transmission. The management server may determine from examining information about the profile associated with the recipients the recipients media local area network and or the associated bridging device that the received and buffered content should be converted to a particular format. The profile for these particular recipients may explicitly state that media received from a specific remote electronic device is to be converted to a specific display format. The progressive uploads from the remote electronic device may contain instructions regarding the presentation format to which the content should be transcoded.

The management server associates the profile or otherwise identified recipients with the bridging device associated with the media local area network within which the recipient terminal resides. In the example the media local area network of the recipient grandparents may include the picture frame device that may play video content the personal computer serving media files and a variety of other electronic devices including the bridging device . The devices on the media local area network communicate with each other by multicast using the simple service discovery protocol. The bridging device may be the sole device on the media local area network that is visible to devices outside the media local area network and is visible to those external devices via its internet protocol address. When the management server has transcoded the content and prepares to begin forwarding the content as directed in the instructions from the remote electronic device the profiles and the tables the management server looks specifically for the internet protocol address of the bridging device . As noted the management server may not be specifically aware of the existence of terminals and their use of the simple service discovery protocol. The management server may deal with internet protocol addressing for specific source and destination stations and is likely unaware of picture frame devices and other consumer devices on media local area networks .

As the management server begins sending the transcoded content it encapsulates the content into internet protocol packets addressed to the bridging device . Similar to the manner in which the management server buffered the content upon receipt from the remote electronic device before transcoding the management server may after transcoding buffer the outgoing content. Because of processing and transmission speeds of the management server network connections between the management server and the bridging device and processing and throughput speeds of the bridging device the management server may buffer the outgoing content in a variety of manners. Buffering of the outgoing content by the management server may permit the bridging device to receive and multicast the transcoded content within the media local area network in a manner wherein the content may be captured and played by the media serving computer and attached picture frame device as a continuous media presentation without interruption. The management server may use a plurality of buffering and content transmission methods to deliver the content to the bridging device in a manner that the content may appear to be received in a stream by the grandparents using the terminal on their media local area network .

The present disclosure also teaches the sending of notifications to terminals regarding the availability of the content. In the example the exact time that the father of the soccer playing boy may begin transmitting the content may not be known and the father may not wish the boy s grandparents to have to wait unnecessarily by their picture frame device for the beginning of their receipt of the content. The management server may send notifications to the terminal in this example the picture frame device or may send notifications to other devices for example the grandparents mobile telephones pagers or electronic mailboxes providing information regarding the start time of the playing of the media content. The capability of the management server to use profiles in determining destinations for content may be useful in sending notifications about the imminent availability of content. Because a profile may include a plurality of terminals associated with a plurality of media local area networks the management server may send notifications to terminals named in a profile advising of the time that a live or nearly live feed of media content may begin. In an embodiment a terminal that receives a notification that media content will begin playing at a certain time may have the option to multicast a simple service discovery protocol message for receipt by the bridging device and passage to the management server requesting that the playing of the media content be delayed for a certain time period or indefinitely.

While an extended family generating content on a mobile phone and viewing it on a media local area network has been a continuing example described herein the present disclosure is suitable for use in other applications. A small business or professional practice may use a plurality of electronic devices in a media local area network and may wish to receive content from an external device. A small business for example a real estate agency or an architect s office may wish to receive live or nearly live transmission of an event of interest filmed by an employee or other person and transmitted to the office. A medical or legal practice may wish to view a transmission of an ongoing medical or legal procedure. If the exact start times of these events is not known notifications could be sent when the events are about to begin. The management server may be operated on a commercial basis by a provider of wireless or other communication services. Users of remote electronic devices and terminals may arrange with an operator of the management server to provide the services described herein to receive buffer transcode and forward media content of many kinds.

The present disclosure has described various embodiments involving a remote electronic device located outside of a media local area network generating or relaying media content to a management server where the content is buffered optionally transcoded and transmitted to a bridging device for distribution to a terminal . The present disclosure also teaches transmissions in the opposite direction wherein a terminal or first electronic device internal to a media local area network may originate messaging or other electronic content and multicast the message inside the media local area network using the simple service discovery protocol. The bridging device forwards the message in an internet protocol packet to the management server for its processing and forwarding to remote electronic device or second electronic device that is external to the media local area network . Mappings between source and destination entities may be located in tables stored in the database a similar manner as previously described.

The tables may contain mappings between addresses of a plurality of types. When a terminal in a media local area network generates a transmission intended for a terminal in a different media local area network the table may search for a mapping of the terminal and or its associated bridging device to the bridging device . Such a table entry may comprise the internet protocol address of the bridging device mapped to the internet protocol address of the bridging device . The present disclosure teaches mappings between a broader variety of address types for example a mapping of an internet protocol address to a telephone number of a mobile device or to an electronic serial number ESN of a mobile device. The present disclosure also teaches the use of profiles or groupings of recipient terminals that may reside on different media local area networks . Profiles may be regarded as aliases that point to files containing the internet protocol addresses of the bridging devices that may be the entry points to media local area networks wherein destination terminals may reside. Mappings in tables may therefore include profiles. A valid entry located in the table may map the remote electronic device to a profile called grandparents. This profile may be an alias pointing to the bridging devices associated with the terminals respectively that are picture frame devices used by the maternal and paternal grandparents respectively of the boy playing soccer. The use of profiles containing pointers to what may be large groups of addresses may allow faster searching of the tables in the database and faster overall performance of the system .

The creation of mappings in the tables may be done by an authorized person at a remote computer not shown . In the example used herein the gentleman filming his son s soccer game and transmitting the content to the boy s grandparents may use a web browser interface to access the management server to request to send the content to the grandparents. The grandparents at a different remote computer may receive a message and reply that the man is authorized to send the content. For the grandparents providing such authorization may be a simple matter of clicking on an Internet link provided in an electronic mail message automatically generated by the management server .

If the management server is operated on a commercial basis by a wireless communication service provider the man using the remote electronic device and the grandparents receiving the content from the man may receive the services described herein under a subscription agreement with the provider. The services may be part of a general subscription agreement the man and or the grandparents have with the wireless provider for wireless voice and data services.

The remote electronic devices may be one of a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a video camera a laptop computer a notebook computer and a tablet computer. The remote electronic devices include remote clients that are software components enabling the users of the remote electronic devices to provide instructions to the management server regarding content transmissions for example instructions about the terminals that are to receive electronic content notifications to be sent and the presentation format into which the progressively uploaded should be transcoded.

Turning now to a processor implemented method of integrating a remote electronic device with a media local area network is provided. Beginning at block a first mapping of a first electronic device to a second electronic device is defined. The first electronic device is internal to the media local area network and the second electronic device is external to the media local area network . The first electronic device may be the bridging device and the second electronic device may be the remote electronic device . The first mapping is stored in a memory of the management server as described previously in at least one table in the database associated with the management server . The bridging device may forward multicast transmissions generated by the terminal that may only communicate with other electronic devices on the media local area network for example the terminal using the simple service discovery protocol SSDP . Transmissions multicasted by the terminal with a final intended destination outside of the media local area network may be received and forwarded by the bridging device .

At block the first electronic device multicasts a first media content on the media local area network and at block the bridging device internal to the media local area network sends the first media content to the management server . The bridging device may receive all simple service discovery protocol messages multicasted by the first electronic device and may by default encapsulate every received message into an internet protocol packet with the internet protocol address of the management server and transmit the packet.

At block the management server sends the first media content to the second electronic device based on the first mapping. The first mapping may be in the table and may map the internet protocol address of the bridging device to the internet protocol address of the second electronic device.

At block a second mapping from the second electronic device to the media local area network is defined wherein the second mapping is stored in the memory of the management server . At block the second electronic device sends a second media content to the management server .

At block the management server sends the second media content to the bridging device based on the second mapping. At block the bridging device multicasts the second media content to the media local area network . The various terminals resident in the media local area network receive the multicast transmissions of the second media content from the bridging device whereupon the terminal may recognize that it is the intended recipient of the second media content and takes possession of the content.

The method may further comprise negotiating a selection of a first codec between the second electronic device and the management server and the second electronic device encoding the second media content based on the first codec. The method may further comprise negotiating a selection of a second codec between the second electronic device and the management server . The method may further comprise the management server transcoding the first media content based on the second codec wherein the management server sends the transcoded first media content to the second electronic device.

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The mobile device may execute a web browser application which enables the display to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with a base transceiver station BTS a wireless network access node a peer mobile device or any other wireless communication network or system. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated it is understood that the wireless communication system may comprise additional base transceiver stations. In some instances the mobile device may be in communication with multiple base transceiver stations at the same time. The base transceiver station or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the mobile device has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the mobile device may access the base transceiver station through a peer mobile device acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide 20 virtual servers on 4 physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

