---

title: Content item receiver module and method
abstract: The present invention relates to a content item receiver module and method. The content item receiver module is operative for a content item delivery system, configured to operate in a first and second mode: said first mode operative to drive a display apparatus to display a received content item; said second mode operative for a specified time window to display on a display apparatus a sequence of linked content items in said specified time window, each of said linked content items having a duration less than said specified time window, and to respond to a prompt signal to initiate a display option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898715&OS=08898715&RS=08898715
owner: Miniweb Technologies Limited
number: 08898715
owner_city: 
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20100903
---
The present application is the U.S. National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of prior International Application No. PCT GB2010 051462 filed Sep. 3 2010 and published on Mar. 17 2011 as WO 2011 030132 which claims priority to GB 0915885.8 GB 0915886.6 GB 0915887.4 all filed on Sep. 10 2009 GB 1012757.9 GB 1012756.1 GB 1012755.3 and GB 1012754.6 all filed on Jul. 29 2010 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a content item receiver module and method. In particular but not exclusively to a content item receiver module and method for a content item delivery system.

The distribution of media content such as music and video now takes place over various communications channels. For example music and video may be broadcast over terrestrial VHF and UHF networks to be received by television sets from satellite to ground stations or domestic satellite receivers and over cable networks. Such broadcast services generally comprise one or more communication channels each channel comprising a particular carrier frequency onto which is modulated a signal representative of the content to be transmitted over the channel. Content typically television programmes films or music shows are transmitted over a particular channel or channels at particular times in accordance with a programme schedule. In this regard broadcast services comprise appointments to view whereby a viewer has to tune into a channel at the time content of interest to the viewer is transmitted on that channel.

More recently interactive television has become available whereby a viewer prompted by a message displayed on the television may send control signals or messages to the broadcaster or third party associated with the broadcaster and displayed message to initiate certain activity. For example to initiate selection of a programme to view or receive information about a programme.

Broadcast services are widely available using digital communications techniques. Digital broadcast service providers often provide data to populate a menu or Electronic Programme Guide EPG of for example a set top box or television with suitable EPG software on one of their channels. A typical EPG is based on a grid system and displays programmes and channels in transverse directions. For example the programmes for a particular channel may be displayed in a horizontal direction with different channels set out in a vertical direction. A viewer may use a remote control having UP DOWN and LEFT RIGHT buttons and use these buttons to move a cursor about the display to highlight programmes. A viewer may select a highlighted programme by actuating a SELECT button which tunes the receiver to the particular cannel. Optionally a viewer may highlight a programme which is to be broadcast in the future and selection of that programme may invoke a record or reminder option.

Television viewers are generally familiar with EPGs set out in a grid system and navigable using remote control devices having relatively simple buttons such as UP DOWN and LEFT RIGHT buttons and SELECT buttons.

Content is also available over computer networks such as the Internet. Content is usually accessed over the Internet using a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer. The location of content on a network such as the Internet is defined by a network address known as a Uniform Resource Locator URL . A particular content item can be addressed and downloaded to the computer addressing the content for later presentation or may be streamed whereby the computer presents the content as it is provided over the network. The user interface for a computer is generally a pointing device such as a mouse and computer users are familiar with a user interface which allows for the pointing device to be moved on to an icon text such as an Internet link or other graphic displayed on a display and selecting that graphic to invoke a function associated with the graphic for example accessing content over the Internet.

Many communications networks including those making up at least a part of the Internet are configured to transmit large amounts of data and these are sometime termed broadband networks. For the purpose of this description the term broadband network is used to refer to a communications network or part thereof which is capable of transmitting content items such as video and music in an acceptable timeframe. Such networks may also support music or video streaming. The data bandwidth capability of a consumer connection to such a network is typically at least 2 MBit s.

Many computer users have computers which are part of a local area network LAN for example in their workplace and increasingly at home in their domestic residence. Users often keep content items on memory storage coupled to their LAN and accessed through their computers.

A consequence of users having a plurality of different sources of information and becoming used to being able to choose what they wish to access or view is that users have become impatient when presented with information they do not wish to view for example advertisements. In the broadcast environment many channels have commercial breaks in their programming. Such commercial breaks may be paid for advertising by companies wishing to promote their products or services or maybe by the broadcaster themselves promoting upcoming services or programmes. Users may wish to avoid such unwanted viewing but in live broadcast must either switch channels and hope to go to a channel without a current commercial break or go and do something else. Conversely broadcasters on behalf of their advertisers or themselves wish to retain the viewer through the commercial break.

Furthermore users are used to being able to easily obtain more information about something they are viewing should they wish to.

Viewed from a first aspect there is provided a content item receiver module operative for a content item delivery system configured to operate in a first and second mode in which in the first mode it is operative to drive a display apparatus to display a received content item and in the second mode it is operative for a specified time window to display on a display apparatus a sequence of linked content items in the specified time window each of the linked content items having a duration less than the specified time window and it is operative to respond to a prompt signal to initiate a display option.

Viewed from a second aspect there is provided a method of operating a content item receiver the method comprising in a first mode driving a display apparatus to display a received content item and in a second mode driving for a specified time window the display apparatus to display a sequence of linked content items in the specified time window each of the linked content items having a duration less than the specified time window and to respond to a prompt signal to initiate a display option.

The content item receiver module may be further configured to operate in the second mode to respond to the prompt signal to initiate display on the display apparatus of a long form content item associated with one or more linked content items of the sequence the long form content item having a greater duration than at least one of the associated linked content items. In this way a user may go to a content item which provides more detailed information about the subject.

Optionally the content item receiver module may be further configured to operate in the second mode to respond to the prompt signal to initiate display on the display apparatus of a menu of one or more display options the menu comprising at least one of a content item identifier corresponding to a content item and a further display option and initiate display on the display apparatus of the content item or the further display option responsive to user selection thereof. In this way a user may select from a plurality of options what they would like to have information about.

The further display option may comprise at least one long form content item identifier corresponding to a long form content item and or a yet further display option in order to provide the user with a further information or options. In this way a user may investigate and continue into more detail regarding a content item of interest to them. The yet further display option may include a further long form content item identifier selectable to display a further long form content item thereby providing a user with new or more detailed information

The long form content item and or the further long form content item may include subject matter related to the subject matter of the associated one or more linked content items of said sequence of linked content items thereby providing a user with an opportunity to obtain more information about the content items that have been displayed to them.

The included subject matter may be related to the subject matter of a linked content item displayed on the display apparatus when the prompt signal is initiated. Thus a user may go direct from a content item they are viewing to content item having more detailed information about the previously viewed content item. Typically the further long form content item includes subject matter related to the subject matter of the long form content item.

Suitably the one or more display options and or the further display option is associated with one or more linked content items of the sequence of linked content items thereby presenting the user with the opportunity to view content having more information about what was to be displayed in the specified time window.

Typically the content item receiver module may be further configured to initiate display on the display apparatus of a first linked content item of the sequence of linked content items responsive to initiation of the specified time window for example where the specified time window is for a commercial break and the linked content items comprise perspective thirty second advertisements.

The content item receiver module may be further configured to be responsive to a user generated prompt signal to initiate display of the one or more display options thereby providing the user with the opportunity to control whether or not they are presented with display options. Optionally the content item receiver module may be further configured to be responsive to a prompt signal generated automatically responsive to initiation of said specified time window such that the display options are automatically invoked.

Typically the display of the one or more display options are superimposed over a currently displayed content item. In particular they may be partially transparently superimposed over the display options.

Suitably respective ones of the display options comprise an image representative of a respective display option thereby providing a future representation to the user regarding what further information or display options may be provided.

A selected long form or further long form content item may be truncated in order to finish display of the selected long form or further long form content item coincident with a finish of the specified time window. In this way the long form or further long form content items may be forced to fit into the specified time window.

Optionally a viewer may be prompted to select an option to continue display of a selected long form or further long form content item beyond a finish of the specified time window.

A long form content item and or further long form content item may be retrieved from a local store. Such a configuration reduces bandwidth requirements and avoids delaying retrieval due to bandwidth constraints thereby providing the possibility of more quickly supplying such long form or further long form content items. Optionally or additionally network location information may be retrieved from a local store for the long form content item or the further long form content. Typically the network location information comprises a uniform resource locator url .

Optionally or additionally the long form content item and or said further long form content item may be requested and retrieved from a source located on a network and the long form content item and or the further long form content item stored local to said content item receiver module.

Optionally or additionally network location information may be requested and retrieved from a source located on a network and stored local to the content item receiver module.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention follows with reference to the figures provided.

The system comprises a plurality of content sources arranged to provide content for reception by a plurality of content receivers e.g. set top boxes and subsequent viewing of the content on a display associated with the respective receivers over at least one of a communications network such as a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet local area networks LAN or a combination of two or more such networks and a broadcast video distribution network e.g. a terrestrial cable IPTV or satellite television broadcast system . The system also comprises a media display management server MDMS which controls content configuration and distribution of content to the content receivers and provides a content search and or discovery and or navigation module and other services. The MDMS provides a content management environment responsible for the presentation of the content accessed by content receivers or users thereof registered with the MDMS giving users a consistent quality controlled user interface experience across multiple content types such as broadcast TV interactive content and Internet video content.

A media display management module not shown is provided in the content receivers for managing the content search discovery navigation and presentation on the content receivers . The media display management module is configured to communicate with the MDMS over the communications network .

The MDMS and the media display management module configure content for display based upon a set of parameters specified by one or more of a content provider a user of a content receiver a content receiver manufacturer and a service provider. The parameters may be embedded as operating parameters of a content receiver .

In the illustrated embodiment the MDMS offers a client server relationship with content receivers comprising TV devices such as set top boxes or as a web service via device Application Programming Interfaces APIs to TV devices and other systems. Content receivers comprising TV devices that connect to the MDMS may have embedded in them a content receiver specific client e.g. media display management module that enables at least a portion of platform services of the MDMS and content owner and original equipment manufacturer OEM branding i.e. branding for the content receiver manufacturer or supplier to be maintained uniformly across device types. Once ported code changes may not need to be made to the device software to add additional content features and branding.

For content receivers that connect to the MDMS and which do not have embedded client software the platform services and content can be enabled via direct services application program interfaces and a TV device user interface. In these instances a sub set of the full platform functionality may be used and content owner and OEM configured branding and services may not be fully reflected in the interface displayed to the user because of the limitations thereof. However certain minimal elements may be required to be supported as a condition of utilising the APIs.

Internet video traffic delivered to TV devices does not pass through the MDMS but utilises the direct streaming services protocols codecs and networking paths from the content owners to the TV devices. While these services protocols codecs and the networks utilised are common to Internet video streaming to PCs TV receivers may only be capable of processing a subset of these protocols and codecs.

Likewise broadcast content delivered to TV devices does not pass through the MDMS either but is subject to broadcasting protocols and transmission paths common to broadcast of TV signals to TV devices over suitable media e.g. Satellite Antenna and Cable .

Using the MDMS content owners and media aggregators i.e. parties who aggregate syndicated web content such as news headlines weblogs blogs podcasts vlogs video blogs in a single proposition can register and manage their services and content for discovery and use by content receivers configured to receive content made available through the MDMS . Content owners can also configure additional products and services via the MDMS such as content subscriptions and promotions and their content owner branding and interactive options are preserved across all devices wherever their content is displayed.

A content receiver user having content stored on their own local content domain may also be able to register and manage content stored on that local content domain using the MDMS and for discovery and use using their content receiver. In this case the content receiver user is effectively another content owner.

The MDMS includes a network interface providing a route through which the MDMS is coupled to the communications network . The MDMS communicates with the content sources and content receivers over the communications network via the network interface. Content received at the MDMS from the content sources may include for example content metadata to feed a search and retrieval module e.g. Web feeds such as RSS XML feeds content owner branding data for application to content to be displayed other content owner rules relating to display and consumption of their content.

A configuration module of the MDMS is configured to provide a means for content owners to register and manage their content. The configuration module comprises a processor and a data storage module.

The configuration module also provides a means by which content receiver manufacturers i.e. OEM manufacturers can specify how data and information should be displayed when the system of the invention is implemented using their specific content receivers. An identity services module described in more detail later provides a means by which end users i.e. viewers using a content receiver implementing the system of the present invention presentation preferences describing how data and information should be displayed on their content receivers are stored e.g. personalising how menus appear when displayed via their content receivers.

A content manager described in more detail later is operative to combine the configurations and preferences specified by the above three different parties.

When initially registering their content with the MDMS to make such content available to viewers having content receivers configured to receive such content via the MDMS content owners conduct a set up process using the configuration module . This set up process may be conducted by the content owner perhaps at a remote location by way of a content owner terminal for example a PC arranged to communicate with the configuration module via the communications network and network interface .

In an example the content owner could use the PC to navigate to a specific web page to initiate the set up process. The configuration module upon receiving a request for the web page data from the PC transmits the relevant web page data to the PC of the content owner to allow the content owner to conduct the set up process. The content owner is presented with a content owner interface which displays a number of functions relating to how it wishes to configure its content. In this regard the content owner can define 

The content owner may also wish to configure a content menu application to be made available to the viewer when the viewer is consuming content from that content owner. Again this content menu registration option may be specified during the initial set up process or at a later time. The content menu registration option also provides the content owner with the ability to configure specific menu items which access services of the MDMS such as a search application which allows a viewer to search only within content of that content owner a content recommendations application which provides a viewer with recommendations from the content of that content owner quasi channel applications in which themed content from that content owner is arranged into such quasi channels either statically or dynamically using pre defined searches and recommendations which can then be performed without data input from the end viewer and an advertising application whereby space on the content menu of that content owner can be sold for advertising or can be used to promote specific content from that content owner with the ability to click through the advertising to a piece of content or an interactive destination.

The content owner indicates that the content is configured as they require it to be using the content owner interface of the web page displayed at their terminal and upon such indication the terminal transmits this configuration parameters data via the communications network and network interface to the configuration module . Upon receipt of the data the configuration module sends a confirmation to the content owner terminal that the configuration parameters data has been received and stores the configuration parameters data within its data storage module.

Although described from the viewpoint of a content owner specifying their requirements a service provider and or an OEM could specify their own branding and presentation requirements and menus using the same interface though the options available for configuration may be different for these different roles.

The data storage module of the configuration module is configured to maintain a database of the content configuration parameters data for retrieval by a content manager which can subsequently apply the content configuration parameters data to content to be transmitted to content receivers.

The MDMS is arranged to retrieve the content metadata configured by the content owners to enable the provision of content search and recommendations to content receivers. The content metadata is retrieved over the communications network by the content indexer optionally as a media RSS XML feed. The content indexer retrieves the content owner feed configurations from the content owner configuration retrieving and processing the content owner feeds as specified. The content indexer augments the metadata retrieved from the content owner with derived data using MDMS rules such as the appropriate MDMS quality classification and the protocols and codecs implied by the one or more content references and data derived using the relevant content owner configuration retrieved from the content owner configuration such as the presentation information distribution networks and territories and the subscription packages that each content item is associated . The XML metadata for each content item is then passed to a search and retrieval module which indexes and stores the content metadata data in its associated storage.

The received content metadata includes data e.g. a URL identifying a location at the content source of the actual content instances to which it relates with each content instance being associated with a different protocol codec bandwidth combination and thus the search and retrieval module maintains a list of content references for each content item registered by content owners.

A search and recommendations module is arranged as an access layer to the search and retrieval module . This exposes a straightforward XML based services API to the content manager for each of the service requests the content manager requires and implements each of these requests utilising one or more of the proprietary APIs and services provided by the search and retrieval module .

The MDMS further comprises an identity services module comprising a processor and a user identity storage module. The user identity storage module of the identity services module is configured to store data relating to identities corresponding to different users of a content receiver e.g. an identity for each individual member of a household. This module provides a user profile data model to be associated with the identities which may comprise 

Various user actions on the content receiver initiate communication with the identity service module some of which result in the current user s profile being updated by the identity services module . Examples of these communications include editing and saving user details and preferences viewing bookmarks bookmarking a content item rating a content item viewing a content item etc. A default identity of a content receiver may be tied to a unique identifier of the content receiver itself which is used when no individual identity has been identified. This default identity may be associated with the subscriber details where the content receiver has been provisioned by a service provider.

With this arrangement profile information of users including for example feedback from their consumption of content can be used to improve targeting and particularly recommendations of content to specific users. This is achieved by the identity services module creating user profiles in the search and retrieval module and populating these with the content items consumed by each user profile. The search and retrieval module can then make consumption informed user recommendations when requested by the search and recommendations module .

In response to reception at the MDMS of an instruction from a content receiver to switch user such instruction invoked by a user action in relation to the content receiver i.e. selection of a user associated with the content receiver and optionally the entering of a personal identification number PIN code e.g. via a remote control the instruction user identifier receiver identifier and optional PIN are delivered to the identity services module via network interface . The identity services module retrieves the relevant user s profile data from its storage module checks the PIN if required and if successful records the new user as the current user for this content receiver in its storage module and generates and returns to the content receiver the user menu appropriate for this user on this content receiver. This new user menu may result in additional requests from the content receiver to the content manager to populate content items such as the user content recommendations .

When a user of a content receiver wishes to search for specific content and initiates a search via their content receiver to search for such specific content a search request is received by the network interface via the communications network for the content receiver and delivered to the content manager . The content manager then constructs the search query adding a number of additional constraints to the search that are derived from the capabilities and attributes of the content receiver. In particular the content receiver may provide the content receiver identifier type and operator as part of the search request and the source IP address can be determined from the TCP IP networking protocols. These are passed to the content receiver profiler which determines and returns 

The content manager then instructs the search and recommendations module to execute the constructed search query. The search and recommendations module extracts the search parameter data from the request in order to address the specific interface of the search and retrieval module . The search is then performed by the search and retrieval module as instructed by the search and recommendations module and the metadata of the relevant content items is retrieved and returned to the content manager . These search results are then transmitted to the content receiver from which the search request was received.

The effect of the combination of this constrained search query implemented by the content manager against the content metadata augmented by the content indexer is to ensure that only content appropriate for and functional on the content receiver is presented to the user. This process applies to recommendations and other content requests.

When a user of a content receiver instigates a search any content results returned to the user may optionally be tailored for that user based upon the user s profile. Thus in this case the content manager upon receipt of a content request via the network interface adds further constraints to the search query. First it requests the user profile data related to the current user who requested the search to the identity services module . The identity services module retrieves the user profile data and returns this to the content manager . The content manager amends the search request data to include any relevant profile settings such as safe search i.e. no adult content as additional terms in the search query prior to submitting the query to the search and recommendations module . Upon reception of such amended search request data the search and recommendations module proceeds in the manner described above to retrieve the metadata of content items relevant to the search request and these search results are returned to the content manager . In addition the content manager may augment the content item metadata returned with relevant user specific metadata such as the user s rating any user tags whether or not the user is already entitled to view the content as part of one of their active subscription packages etc. before transmitting the content metadata to the user s content receiver. Thus a personalised form of content presentation can be delivered to the user while still maintaining the requirements and constraints of other parties i.e. content owner etc. .

In some instances a further variation of the above scheme may be utilised particularly when a user has knowledge of the content items being displayed such as their bookmarked content items where content items that are not functional on the device are still returned in the results but have their content item metadata further augmented to indicate that they are non functional content items. This avoids the user thinking that the system has lost content items that they are aware of if they move between content receivers with different capabilities.

The MDMS offers a range of functions to a user of a content receiver which might include for example video search and recommendations interacting with content provider menus registering new profiles individual identities administering payment instruments and billing transactions and payments authorisation managing favourites playlists and history interacting with messages and other users and setting up user preferences and options.

A display format for display of the content owner specified and or personalised form of content on a display screen is delivered to a content receiver from the content manager via network interface and communications network . This display format is controlled by the content manager based upon the content configuration parameters data stored in the data storage module of the configuration module and or the user profile data stored for the current user in the storage module of the identity services

The display format is delivered in markup which describes how to display the required functionality of the user interface either via a graphical menu on the TV screen or via a browser application on the content receiver or a third party interactive TV engine.

Communication between the content receiver and MDMS takes place via the content receiver services module which is arranged to service requests from the content receiver enforce security and access controls for protected premium content and may compile XML content responses into a binary representation of XML for efficient communications and processing on the content receiver.

The content receiver services module comprises the following modules content manager as hereinbefore described identity services module also hereinbefore described content enforcement module payment services module and image transcoder .

The content enforcement module is the element of the content receiver services module configured to gate and authorise the playing of protected e.g. premium or restricted content. The content enforcement module operates in conjunction with a payment services module subscription management module the identity services and the content receiver profiler. Such enforcement is implemented by checking territory restrictions subscription entitlements informing the user of any gating actions required e.g. PIN entry required purchase required etc. and requesting authorised content URLs from content owners to provide a content receiver access to a content item. In this regard a request for a content URL is sent from the content receiver and received at the MDMS via the network interface and forwarded to the content enforcement module . The content enforcement module first makes a request to the search and retrieval module for content metadata relating to the content item which the user has requested. The processor of the search and retrieval module retrieves the content metadata from the data storage module of the search and retrieval module and returns the retrieved content metadata to the content enforcement module . If the content item is identified as a premium content item the content enforcement module requests the current user s subscription entitlements from the subscription management module . The subscription management module retrieves and returns the user s active subscription entitlements to the content enforcement module and the content enforcement module checks these against the content item subscription packages to determine if the user is entitled to view the content item. If the content item is identified as being restricted by territory the content enforcement module requests the content receiver s territory from the content receiver profiler and checks if the content receiver is entitled to access the content item. Finally the content item is checked to see if it is marked as restricted.

If all conditions are met and the user is eligible to view the content the URL of the content item is transmitted by the content enforcement module via the network interface to the content receiver. Upon reception of the content URL the content receiver can then retrieve and play the requested content item from the content owner s content source. Optionally the content enforcement module may request a content access authorisation token from the content owner which is transmitted to the content receiver and used by the content receiver when retrieving the content item. This enables the content owner to restrict access to their content to trusted MDMS content receivers.

If as a result of a determination by the content enforcement module the content requested by a user cannot be viewed by that user then the content enforcement module transmits via the network interface to the content receiver one of a number of response conditions 

When a payment process is initiated against the payment services module the content receiver issues a request to the payment services module which returns for payment details to the content receiver. This causes the content receiver to effect display of a payment details request message on an associated display device. In response to the message a user may have the options of rejecting the request for payment details or accepting the request. If the request is accepted the user is prompted to enter appropriate payment details which are returned to the payment services module via the communications network and network interface . As will be appreciated the user commands in response to the payment details request may be entered via a user interface device such as a remote control of the content receiver.

When payment details data is received confirmed and successfully processed by the payment services module it transfers the subscription purchased to the subscription management module where it is stored against the current user in the associated subscription storage module. The subscription management also forwards this information to the identity services module to update the user profile data relating to that user to include the subscription package upgrade.

Image transcoder is configured to re encode images stored in standard web formats e.g. portable network graphics PNG JPEG to a format supported by any given content receiver. Thus when image data is transmitted to a content receiver the image transcoder ensures that such images are supported for display by that content receiver. The content receiver informs the image transcoder the source image URL and what image format it requires. The image transcoder retrieves the source image URL over the network interface and then transcodes the image into one of the required formats before transmitting the transcoded image to the content receiver.

MDMS also comprises an advertisement management module which is configured to receive advertisement management campaign metadata from one or more advertisers. The metadata includes locators e.g. URLs of one or more repositories of advertisers containing replacement advertisement content items. The advertisement management module performs a matching process discussed further below to determine replacement advertisements likely to be of interest to a user currently logged on to the content receiver. The locators of these replacement advertisements determined during the matching process are forwarded to the network interface for transmission via the communications network to the content receiver.

The locators received at the content receiver are transferred to the CPU upon which is implemented an advertisement break module see . The advertisement break module includes a replacement advertisement acquisition module described in more detail in relation to which sends requests containing the locators to the one or more repositories of the advertisers for retrieval of corresponding replacement advertisements. In response to such requests the one or more advertisers systems retrieve the requested replacement advertisements and forward them to the content receiver. These replacement advertisements are stored in the content receiver for retrieval to be inserted in place of original advertisement content items in a broadcast video content item received at the content receiver such that the video output from the content receiver contains replacement advertisement content items in place of the original advertisement content items in an advertisement. Thus when the video output of the content receiver is displayed the replacement advertisement content items are seen during an advertisement break in the broadcast video content item instead of the original advertisements.

The identity services module contains pertinent information e.g. preferences age etc. about one or more users of a particular content receiver. The advertisement management module performs a matching process to locate advertisement content items which are likely to be of interest to the one or more users based upon their profiles stored in the identity services module . The advertisement management module can manage a number of advertisement campaigns with metadata which may comprise for example demographic criteria cost of display budget and asset reference.

The matching process may compare metadata of advertisement content items with the user profile information to determine those advertisement content items which are most relevant to a particular user. When the process is complete the advertisement management module sends a request over the communications network via network interface to the content receiver indicating the advertisement content items to be retrieved by the content receiver. These advertisement content items can be retrieved from the content source by the content receiver.

In an optional arrangement one or more advertisement content items are retrieved from respective repositories of content sources of advertisers and returned to the advertisement management module via the communications network. These received one or more advertisement content items either may be stored within a storage device of the advertisement management module for retrieval therefrom by the content receiver from the advertising management module .

The matching process algorithm implemented by the advertisement management module may be without limitation for example a Doubleclick algorithm or a 24 7 Real Media algorithm.

Replacement advertisement content items received at the content receiver are inserted by the content receiver into an advertisement break of a broadcast content item received at the content receiver in place of original advertisement content items in the advertisement break. The content receiver comprises functions which will be discussed in more detail later which allow a user to instruct the content receiver to skip from one replacement advertisement content item to another. If the user instructs the content receiver to skip display of a replacement advertisement content item in such a manner display of that replacement advertisement content item will be halted and another replacement advertisement is displayed.

Whether or not a user views a replacement advertisement content item or skips such a content item is of value to advertisers because it provides a measure of the success of an advertisement in an advertisement campaign. Therefore the content receiver compiles feedback reports for each replacement advertisement content item in a playlist to indicate if that content item has been displayed and viewed in full i.e. a skip or fast forward function has not been activated whilst that content item is displayed displayed and skipped or not shown e.g. the end of the advertisement break was reached before the content item could be shown . The advertisement break module of the content receiver comprises a replacement advertisement monitoring module to monitor any user inputs to the content receiver during display of the replacement advertisement content items and prepares the feedback report mentioned above. The process by which the replacement advertisement monitoring module achieves this is described in more detail in relation to .

When a feedback report has been compiled this is passed to a network interface of the content receiver see and forwarded to the MDMS via communications network . The received feedback report is transferred to the advertisement management module which notes the report for each replacement advertisement content item. This report can be supplied to advertisers on a periodic basis.

The content receiver comprises a hardware components layer an OS drivers and middleware layer and a software applications layer . Applications in the OS drivers and middleware layer and software applications layer are arranged to run on a central processing unit CPU of the content receiver .

Along with CPU the hardware layer comprises a distribution receiver a network interface a demultiplexer a video decoder an audio processor a graphics processor a content output module a memory component RAM an input receiver and disk storage . Disk storage includes a replacement advertisement address database and a replacement advertisement database .

The distribution receiver such as a tuner for receiving a terrestrial digital television broadcast receives content at the content receiver from the broadcast video distribution network in the form of e.g. an MPEG 2 transport stream. This transport stream is transferred to demultiplexer which extracts a data portion of the transport stream and forwards the data portion to the CPU which in conjunction with an electronic programme guide application ERG running thereon processes EPG data for use by the EPG application

A video portion of the received content from the broadcast video distribution network is extracted by the demultiplexer and transferred to the video decoder . The video decoder prepares video content for output on the content display by the content output module . The content output module overlays any graphic output required by any of the software applications identified in the software applications layer as output by the graphics processor under instruction from the CPU over the video content and outputs the combined output to the content display.

An audio portion of the received content from the broadcast video distribution network is extracted by the demultiplexer and transferred to the audio processor. The audio processor processes the audio content and outputs to the content display .

Output protocols supported by the hardware of the content receiver may comprise one or more of High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Component Video SCART Composite Video and audio outputs such as Dolby Digital and stereo analogue.

The OS drivers and middleware layer comprises a graphics layer module a networking services module an audio services module a personal video recorder PVR sub system module a digital video broadcasting DVB stack module a storage services module a system services module and an operating system application and drivers . These modules are conventional features on many content receivers such as set top boxes . Further description of these modules will therefore only be provided where necessary in relation to the functioning of one or more embodiments of the present invention.

Input receiver is arranged to receive commands for controlling the content receiver such commands being input by a user by way of an input device . The commands may be entered using for example a set top box remote control device through which commands are entered by the user by pressing specific keys of the remote control device. A control signal from the remote control is transmitted to the content receiver by any suitable means e.g. infra red transmission.

The software applications layer of the content receiver comprises an EPG module referred to above a browser application and a media display management module application MDMM .

Although a browser application is shown in the illustrated embodiment other suitable interactive display engines may be used e.g. a flash engine such as Adobe flash engine.

The MDMM runs on the CPU and configures the CPU for communication via network interface with the MDMS in order to manage content received at the content receiver over the communications network . Commands input by a user requesting delivery of a content item to the content receiver are received at the input receiver and communicated to CPU which implements the MDMM to request content data appropriate to the command from the MDMS .

Where the CPU instructs the video decoder and audio processor to process video received over the communications network via the network interface this will be buffered by the CPU in RAM and then the video and audio portions will be retrieved by the video decoder and audio processor using direct memory access DMA in the same manner as when the video was received over the broadcast video distribution network via the distribution receiver .

CPU also implements MDMM to manage and control content received at the content receiver over the broadcast video distribution network .

The one or more replacement advertisement content items identified during the matching process as discussed above in relation to are retrieved by the content receiver from repositories of advertisers. The content receiver forwards locators with each request to enable systems at the content sources to locate the replacement advertisement content items. Once such items are located the systems at the content sources forward the items to the content receiver where they are received at the network interface of the content receiver via communications network . These one or more replacement advertisement content items are transferred to a replacement advertisement database which comprises a portion of disk storage .

In more detail on initial registration of the content receiver with MDMS a process which creates a default user or the adding of a new user a list of replacement advertisements which match that user s profile is created by the advertisement management module . Locators of the replacement advertisements in that list and additional metadata describing the attributes constraints associated with each replacement advertisement are provided to the content receiver . Upon receipt at the content receiver the locators are stored in replacement advertisement address database . An advertisement acquisition module of the content receiver sends requests to repositories of the advertisers denoted by the locators for retrieval of replacement advertisement content items. These items are communicated via the communications network to the content receiver where upon receipt they are transferred to the replacement advertisement database for storage and each of the locators stored in the replacement advertisement address database is replaced with the local address of a corresponding replacement advertisement content item on the replacement advertisement database . That is the replacement advertisement address database stores the addresses where each replacement advertisement content item is stored in the replacement advertisement database .

The replacement advertisement content items stored in the replacement advertisement database may be flagged with restrictions such as how many times an advertisement can be shown during the same TV programme how many times an advertisement can be shown per unit of time for example per hour if an advertisement can only be shown after a certain time e.g. 9 pm because it contains adult content and may also be flagged with an expiry date. For example an advertisement campaign may be scheduled to end on a particular date and the advertiser will not want a replacement advertisement relating to that campaign to air after that date. Therefore an expiry date flag provided as for example meta data relating to that replacement advertisement will be noted by a replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine described in detail later and that advertisement will not be added to a playlist. An example of the data stored in the replacement advertisement database is illustrated in .

Thus it will be appreciated that the replacement advertisement database needs to be replenished over time as advertisements expire and also simply to avoid over repetition of the same replacement advertisements. Replacement advertisements may be retrieved in the background of normal operation of the content receiver as available bandwidth allows such as idle periods or periods where the content receiver is in stand by mode.

The description hereafter assumes that a number of replacement advertisement content items have been uploaded in the manner described above to the replacement advertisement database of the content receiver and are stored thereon.

One or more replacement advertisement content items can be retrieved from replacement advertisement database of disk storage as required to construct a playlist of replacement advertisement content items for insertion into a received broadcast video content item. Retrieval construction and insertion of the playlist of replacement advertisement content items into the received broadcast video content item will be described in more detail later.

DVB stack comprises a series of modules operative to drive the TV system of the content receiver. Such a feature is known in conventional content receivers e.g. set top boxes and known manufacturers are for example OpenTV NDS or Direct TV.

The DVB stack is configured to detect a signal in a received broadcast video content item indicating that an advertisement break is due to commence. The DVB stack forwards a first notification signal to the CPU that such a signal has been detected. Upon receipt of such first notification signal at the CPU an advertisement break module running on the CPU instructs the CPU to retrieve the one or more replacement advertisement content items from the replacement advertisement database of disk storage . The replacement advertisement content items are targeted against a user currently logged in to the content receiver this will be described in more detail below . The advertisement break module constructs in RAM a playlist of replacement advertisement content items for insertion into the advertisement break of the broadcast video content item. The playlist comprises a list of local addresses of replacement advertisement content items to be inserted.

Optionally the total length of one or more replacement advertisement content items in the playlist is equal to the duration of the advertisement break.

The DVB stack is configured to detect a signal in a received broadcast video content item indicating the start point of an advertisement. The DVB stack forwards a second notification signal to the CPU that such a signal has been detected. Upon receipt of such second notification signal at the CPU the CPU instructs the video decoder to stop decoding the broadcast video content stream and decode the playlist of one or more replacement advertisement content items. The advertisement playlist insertion engine instructs the video decoder to stop decoding the incoming broadcast video content stream and instructs the video decoder to perform DMA of the replacement advertisement database at a given address of a first replacement advertisement content item. Upon receipt of such an instruction the video decoder stops decoding the incoming broadcast video content stream and the display of a content item in that video content stream and instead invokes the display of a first replacement advertisement as retrieved from replacement advertisement database . A retrieved replacement advertisement content item is inserted into the advertisement break of the broadcast video content item received at the content receiver at commencement of the advertisement break. Thus the playlist of one or more replacement advertisement content items replaces one or more original advertisement content items in the advertisement break in the video output of the content receiver .

Again a detailed description of the process by which the playlist is retrieved constructed and inserted is provided later.

The content receiver is configured to allow a particular displayed replacement advertisement content item to be skipped such that another stored replacement advertisement content item is displayed in place of the current item. Thus for example if a user is not interested in a replacement advertisement content item currently being displayed to them they can instruct the content receiver to invoke the display of another replacement advertisement content item by entering a command to the content receiver through input device .

Such an entered command is received by the input receiver and forwarded to CPU . The CPU instructs the video decoder to stop display of the current replacement advertisement content item and orders the video decoder to invoke display of the next replacement advertisement content item from the playlist of the one or more replacement advertisement content items.

Of course a particular replacement advertisement content item may be of interest to the user and may thus be watched in its entirety. In this case when the particular replacement advertisement content item concludes the video output stream continues with the next one of the replacement advertisement content items of the playlist of one or more stored replacement advertisement content items.

As noted above it is envisaged that a total duration of all the one or more replacement advertisement content items stored in disk storage is at least equal to the length of the advertisement break into which they are to be inserted in place of original advertisement content items. However if through user entered commands which instruct the content receiver to perform skipping of the majority of stored replacement advertisement content items it will be appreciated that a final stored replacement advertisement content item in the playlist is displayed and will conclude before conclusion of the advertisement break. In such a case the playlist is repeated from the beginning. This arrangement effects display of the replacement advertisement content items in a loop or carousel type arrangement.

In an optional arrangement the content receiver is operative to invoke display of a visual prompt on the display means. This visual prompt indicates to the user that it is possible to skip to the next advertisement content item by pressing for example a fast forward button on the remote control device.

In general overview advertisement break module comprises a replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine a replacement advertisement playlist insertion engine a replacement advertisement acquisition module and a replacement advertisement monitoring module . The replacement advertisement acquisition module and replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine are operative to communicate with replacement advertisement address database . The replacement advertisement acquisition module is operative to communicate with replacement advertisement database to store replacement advertisement content items therein which have been retrieved from content sources and the replacement advertisement playlist insertion engine is operative to retrieve replacement advertisement content items from the replacement advertisement database .

One or more locators are requested by the content receiver via communications network from the advertisement management module of MDMS . The one or more locators comprises addresses in advertisers repositories where replacement advertisement content items are stored and from where those replacement advertisement content items can be retrieved.

In an optional arrangement separate requests may be sent to the advertisement management module for each user of a content receiver for which there exists a user profile.

Upon receipt of the one or more locators the replacement advertisement acquisition module executed on CPU stores these locators in replacement advertisement address database . The replacement advertisement acquisition module then sends requests including the locators to advertisers content source systems for retrieval of replacement advertisement content items. Retrieved replacement advertisements are transferred to replacement advertisement database for retrieval therefrom at an appropriate time. Each of the locators stored in the replacement advertisement address database is replaced with the local address i.e. the address in the replacement advertisement database of the corresponding replacement advertisement content item.

Replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine compiles a playlist descriptor not shown in but illustrated in and described in relation thereto based upon replacement advertisements stored in the database and based upon the currently logged in user. The playlist descriptor comprises local addresses i.e. addresses in the replacement advertisement database of the replacement advertisement content items of the playlist.

As noted above the playlist descriptor comprises a list of local addresses as retrieved from replacement advertisement address database of the replacement advertisement database of disk storage where replacement advertisements to form part of the playlist of one or more replacement advertisements are stored. That is the playlist descriptor comprises a list of pointers to locations where replacement advertisements are stored on the replacement advertisement database . The order of addresses in the playlist descriptor corresponds to the order in which replacement advertisements found at those addresses will appear in the playlist when compiled. The playlist descriptor links together replacement advertisements into a playlist.

The replacement advertisement playlist insertion engine executed on CPU extracts the addresses from the playlist descriptor stored in RAM and retrieves a replacement advertisement from each address in the replacement advertisement database . A retrieved replacement advertisement is buffered from the replacement advertisement database for insertion into an advertisement break at an appropriate time.

In order to insert a playlist of replacement advertisements into a broadcast video content stream received at the content receiver in place of original advertisements in the content stream markers denoting the start and end of the advertisement break are required. These markers are required in the transport stream such as an MPEG 2 transport stream of the broadcast video content stream. A start marker enables the playlist of replacement advertisements to be inserted at the correct point in the received broadcast video content stream i.e. at the start of the advertisement break.

In addition to the above start and end markers a pre start marker may be included in the transport stream to allow the content receiver to retrieve the playlist of replacement advertisements in readiness for an approaching advertisement break. This is to provide for a substantially seamless progression of the video output so that a gap in the video output stream between a television programme and display of the first replacement advertisement content item in the video output stream is avoided.

The pre start marker is extracted from a transport stream received at the content receiver by the demultiplexer see . The arrival of the pre start marker is notified to the replacement advertisement playlist insertion engine executed on CPU which prepares to retrieve the playlist of replacement advertisements. When the start marker arrives at the content receiver it is extracted from the transport stream by the demultiplexer and the arrival thereof is notified to replacement advertisement playlist insertion engine . The advertisement playlist insertion engine instructs the video decoder to stop decoding the incoming broadcast video content stream and instructs the video decoder to perform DMA of the replacement advertisement database at a given address of a first replacement advertisement content item. Upon receipt of such an instruction the video decoder stops decoding the incoming broadcast video content stream and the display of a content item in that video content stream and instead invokes the display of a first replacement advertisement in the playlist as retrieved from replacement advertisement database .

When the first replacement advertisement in the playlist concludes a second replacement advertisement in the playlist is displayed and so on.

Management of return to a broadcast video content item after the advertisement break will be described in more detail later.

As discussed briefly above whilst a replacement advertisement content item is displayed a user can instruct the content receiver to skip a remainder of a currently displayed replacement advertisement content item. The content receiver invokes display of a different replacement advertisement content item from the playlist instead.

Such user instructions can be entered via input device e.g. a remote control using key presses of keys on the input device. Therefore pressing a skip or fast forward button on the remote control instructs the content receiver to stop playing a current replacement advertisement content item and invoke display of a different replacement advertisement content item from the playlist. Optionally this different replacement advertisement content item may be a next replacement advertisement content item in the playlist or may be selected using a replacement advertisement content item identifier selected from a displayed list of replacement advertisement content item identifiers e.g. a visual representation of the playlist.

The replacement advertisement monitoring module executed on CPU is notified when a replacement advertisement content item is displayed. A duration of the replacement advertisement content item currently being displayed is also provided to the replacement advertisement monitoring module .

The replacement advertisement monitoring module calculates the number of clock signals not shown corresponding to a total length of the replacement advertisement content item.

The replacement advertisement monitoring module monitors signals received at the CPU relating to a user input signal received from the input device. If a signal for invoking skip or fast forward of the currently displayed content item is detected the replacement advertisement monitoring module notes the number of clock signals that have passed since the replacement advertisement content item started and obtains the number of clock signals between start of display and the skip or fast forward signal. The replacement advertisement monitoring module compares this number with the number of clock signals corresponding to the total length of the replacement advertisement content item. If the number of clock signals that have passed since the replacement advertisement content item started is less than a threshold percentage e.g. 95 of the number of clock signals corresponding to the total length of the replacement advertisement content item the replacement advertisement monitoring module determines that the replacement advertisement content item has been halted before its conclusion.

The replacement advertisement monitoring module prepares a feedback report entry based upon this determination i.e. that the replacement advertisement content was not viewed in full due to user invoked skip. The feedback report entry is transferred to disk storage . At the end of an advertisement break the replacement advertisement monitoring module retrieves one or more feedback report entries stored in disk storage to prepare a feedback report. Upon completion the report is forwarded to advertisement management module of MDMS .

In the case where a replacement advertisement content item is watched in full the number of clock signals that have passed since the replacement advertisement content item started is greater than the percentage threshold of the number of clock signals corresponding to the total length of the replacement advertisement content item. The replacement advertisement monitoring module determines that the replacement advertisement content item has been viewed in full and prepares a feedback report entry on this basis.

The replacement advertisement monitoring module aside from monitoring to see if one or more of the replacement advertisement content items inserted in the broadcast feed are skipped is also operative to monitor which ads are shown. This monitoring data is used to update replacement advertisement content item data sets in the replacement advertisement database for each replacement advertisement content item to indicate when a replacement advertisement content item was last shown. Thus when another playlist is compiled the rules applied by the replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine may prevent the replacement advertisement content item to form part of the playlist for the next ad break i.e. to prevent the same replacement advertisement content item being shown in a next advertisement break if it was shown in the previous advertisement break if so specified by the rules .

Data is stored at a plurality of addresses of the replacement advertisement database and each data set comprises a replacement advertisement content item e.g. in MPEG format a replacement advertisement identification ID number data indicating an external address where from where the replacement advertisement content item can be retrieved e.g. as a URI data indicating a local address on the replacement advertisement database where the replacement advertisement content item is stored data indicating the date and time when that replacement advertisement content item was last shown data indicating a minimum time between a time when the advertisement is displayed and the next time the advertisement can be included in a playlist i.e. once the advertisement is displayed it cannot be included in a playlist for e.g. at least one hour any broadcast restrictions relating to that replacement advertisement content item i.e. it contains adult content and can only be shown after 9 pm data indicating to which users of the content receiver the advertisement can be shown an expiry date of that replacement advertisement content item a duration of the replacement advertisement content item and display data for the replacement advertisement content item.

As described above the replacement advertisement monitoring module monitors which replacement advertisement content items are included in playlists and or shown. Data obtained from such a monitoring process is used to update a data set for a particular replacement advertisement content item.

In the example illustrated in Ad. was uploaded from external address URI and is stored at local address of the replacement advertisement database . It has never been included in a playlist and at least two hours must elapse between one showing of this advertisement and the inclusion of the advertisement in a playlist for a potential next showing. The advertisement can only be displayed between the hours of 21 00 and 04 00. The advertisement should be included in playlists when User ID is logged on to the content receiver. It should not be included in playlists after 28 Sep. 2010 because it expires on that date.

 Ad of is applicable to two users. As illustrated this replacement advertisement content item can be included in playlists for both User ID and User ID . This particular replacement advertisement content item was last shown on 14 Apr. 2010 at 13 01 hours when User ID was logged on at the content receiver. It has not been shown to User ID .

 Ad of is not yet stored on the replacement advertisement database . This is evident because a local address is not indicated for this replacement advertisement content item. It must be retrieved in the manner described previously and then stored on the replacement advertisement database . Once it has been stored the local address field for this replacement advertisement content item will be updated with a local address and it will be available for inclusion in a replacement advertisement playlist for User ID .

The playlist descriptor illustrated in is compiled by extracting one or more replacement content items from the replacement advertisement database such replacement advertisement content items being illustrated in and as described above. The extraction process is performed by the replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine which queries the replacement advertisement local address database . The replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine enforces the rules restrictions detailed in to ensure that only appropriate advertisements for the current user and or time are included in the playlist descriptor . The playlist descriptor illustrated in is an example of a particular playlist for a particular user at a particular point in time.

The replacement advertisement data fields may also include other information such a for example replacement advertisement content item duration and display data e.g. the display data may comprise meta data and may include information regarding the advertisement title and or a brief synopsis of the advertisement and or a thumbnail image of a frame from the advertisement . This display data could be used in one or more embodiments where a menu displays a list of available advertisements for insertion. The display data may be in XML format.

The playlist descriptor may be compiled by the replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine prior to each advertisement break.

Thus in the illustrated example a playlist for insertion into an advertisement break will comprise replacement advertisements to n where replacement advertisement is stored at address Xof the replacement advertisement database replacement advertisement is stored at address Xof the replacement advertisement database and replacement advertisement n is stored at address Xof the replacement advertisement database .

Thus a playlist of replacement advertisements appropriate for the user currently logged on to the content receiver can be compiled and inserted in an advertisement break based upon the information contained in the playlist descriptor .

A typical video content broadcast stream as illustrated in such as a live television satellite terrestrial or cable broadcast contains a primary broadcast video content item and one or more breaks in the primary broadcast video content item . A typical video content broadcast stream may comprise an MPEG 2 transport stream. The MPEG 2 transport stream is described in more detail in relation to .

Each of the one or more breaks comprises a specified time window in which at least one secondary broadcast video content item is displayed. In a particular example the primary video content item comprises a television programme and the one or more breaks comprise an advertisement break in which one or more secondary broadcast video content items i.e. advertisement content items are displayed. In the figure the advertisement break contains four advertisement content items 

Transition from the main broadcast video content item to a break occurs at a first transition point whilst transition from the break back to the main broadcast video content item occurs at second transition point .

While schematically illustrates a conventional broadcast video stream illustrates a modified broadcast video stream modified by a content source provider i.e. a broadcaster to include markers for indicating the approach of an advertisement break the start of an advertisement break and the end of an advertisement break.

Thus whilst the main broadcast video content item and the advertisement break containing four advertisement content items are the same as illustrated and described in relation to the broadcast video stream also includes a pre start marker a start marker and an end marker . The pre start marker indicates that an advertisement break is approaching a start marker indicates the start of the advertisement break and the end marker indicates the conclusion of the advertisement break.

A packet header of an MPEG 2 transport packet includes a program identifier PID . A program map table PMT contains information about programs and is transmitted via the PID . In one or more embodiments of the present invention a conventional PMT is modified to include an advertisement table entry. The advertisement table entry comprises a private section of the PMT and includes the following a start presentation time stamp PTS for a packetized elementary stream PES packet that contains a start point of the advertisement break an end PTS for the PES packet that contains a start point of a program that is about to start resume i.e. an end point of the advertisement break. These start PTS and end PTS correspond to the start marker and end marker of . The advertisement table entry may also include data indicating the duration of the advertisement break.

The end PTS for the PES packet that contains a start point of a program that is about to start resume after an advertisement break provides a notification to the video decoder of the content receiver to cease display of the playlist of replacement advertisements and resume the main broadcast video content item i.e. a TV programme. However in an optional arrangement to be described in further detail below this end PTS may be ignored to allow the playlist to be viewed in full. In this case the TV programme is recorded to disk storage of the content receiver if the content receiver i.e. STB comprises a PVR and is resumed when the playlist has completed.

The advertisement table entry optionally includes a pre start PTS for the PES packet that contains a portion of a program that is about to transfer to an advertisement break. For example the portion of the program may be between 0.5 and 5 seconds.

The advertisement table entry optionally includes a start PTS for a PES packet containing a start point of an advertisement and an end PTS for the PES packet containing an end point of the same advertisement. Such start and end PTS data may be included for each advertisement in an advertisement break to allow selective overwriting of individual advertisements.

The illustrated example assumes that during an advertisement break a first replacement advertisement content item is viewed in full and the second replacement advertisement content item is curtailed before being viewed in full because the user invokes a skip function to change the display to a third replacement advertisement content item . This third replacement advertisement content item is viewed in full. The fourth replacement advertisement content item is curtailed because it is necessary to interrupt the fourth replacement advertisement content item in order to return to a broadcast video content item i.e. a TV programme.

If after the display of a replacement advertisement content item the time remaining in the advertisement break is such that no meaningful portion of a further stored replacement advertisement content item can be displayed then a short form advertisement e.g. 15 seconds or less or a still image e.g. JPEG could be inserted into the video output stream for display during the remainder of the advertisement break.

A short form or still image advertisement is supplied as part of the playlist of replacement advertisement content items.

When the content receiver initially starts up the replacement advertisement acquisition module on the content receiver sends a request S via the communication network to the MDMS for default user advertisement content items. The advertisement management module requests the default user profile information from the identity services module S and in response to such request the identity services module retrieves the default user profile information and forwards this to the advertisement management and storage module S . The advertisement management module performs a targeting process as described above in relation to in order to locate replacement advertisement content items which will be relevant to the default user profile. The advertisement management module provides replacement advertisement content item locators e.g. URL addresses at content sources to the content receiver S . The advertisement acquisition module then sends requests S for the replacement advertisement content items to one or more content sources. The requests include the content item locators to enable the content source systems to locate the content item in their associated repositories. These one or more content sources return S the requested replacement advertisement content items to the content receiver where such items are stored. The locations of these stored replacement advertisement content items on the content receiver i.e. local addresses are stored in the replacement advertisement database S . Replacement advertisement content items are subsequently retrieved as described above for insertion into a broadcast video content item.

Until additional user profiles are created or associated with the content receiver the replacement advertisement content items used are those retrieved against the default profile.

Once additional user profiles have been associated with a content receiver the steps of S to S are repeated although not shown in for each associated user profile and the replacement advertisement content items stored in replacement advertisement database include replacement advertisement content items likely to be of more relevance to particular users than those replacement advertisement content items stored against the default user profile.

The advertisement content items stored in replacement advertisement database against each user may be updated when a particular profile is activated on the content receiver.

A user input View TV instruction S received at the content receiver instructs the content receiver to tune to a TV channel indicated in the instruction and the content receiver receives S a broadcast video content item broadcast on such a TV channel. This broadcast video content item is displayed S .

When a pre start marker is received S at the content receiver the replacement advertisement playlist compilation engine queries the replacement advertising database and compiles a playlist of replacement advertisement content items S . These query results i.e. a compiled playlist of replacement advertisement content items is forwarded to the replacement advertisement insertion engine.

When a start marker is received S at the content receiver the content receiver ceases to display the received broadcast video content item and displays S a first replacement advertisement content item from the playlist.

In the present instance and as noted above the user views the first replacement advertisement content item in its entirety. At completion of the first replacement advertisement content item the content receiver displays S the second replacement advertisement content item . However the second replacement advertisement content item is not viewed in full because the user performs a skip operation S to change the display to the next replacement advertisement content item in the playlist sequence. On reception of such a skip function the content receiver displays S the third replacement advertisement content item

In the illustrated example and as noted above the user views the third replacement advertisement content item in its entirety. At completion of the third replacement advertisement content item the content receiver displays S the fourth replacement advertisement content item . However the fourth replacement advertisement content item is not viewed in full because it is interrupted in order for the displayed video item to return to the primary broadcast video content item S . This return to the primary broadcast video content item is invoked when content receiver receives the end of advertisement marker in the broadcast signal S .

The replacement advertisement monitoring module prepares a feedback report comprising entries relating to each replacement advertisement content item to displayed during the advertisement break. The feedback report identifies which replacement advertisement content items of the playlist have been displayed which of those displayed items were viewed in full which of those displayed items were truncated due to user actions and which of those displayed items were truncated due to a need to return to the broadcast video content item i.e. TV programme . The content receiver supplies the feedback report to the advertisement management module of MDMS S .

The reports received at the advertisement management module from the content receiver may be made available to advertisers to enable them to gauge public response to a particular advertisement campaign.

Although in the above described one or more embodiments a final replacement advertisement content item is truncated in order to return to the display of a broadcast video content item i.e. a television programme this need not be the case.

In a content receiver which has a programme recording capability rather than returning to the display of a television programme a final replacement advertisement content item may be displayed in full before returning to display of the television programme. The recording facility of the content receiver is arranged to record the television programme from the end of the advertisement break until instructed to stop recording. Thus when the final replacement advertisement content item concludes it is not the live television programme which is displayed but a recorded version of it.

When the final replacement advertisement content item is viewed in full the content receiver may also offer the user the option of viewing the television programme from its current live point i.e. an initial portion of the television programme overlapping with the final replacement advertisement content item after the end of the original advertisement break will be missed or to watch a recorded version of the television programme as described above.

In the above described one or more embodiments when an advertisement break begins a playlist of replacement advertisement content items is retrieved from replacement advertisement database of the content receiver and displayed instead of the received broadcast transport stream.

The user can opt to watch the advertisement or skip to the next advertisement in the playlist i.e. instruct the content receiver to invoke display of the next advertisement in the playlist . This skip function can be invoked a number of times and can comprise a skip to the next previous advertisement from the one currently being viewed.

The advertisements are arranged in a carousel like manner. For example the playlist contains twelve replacement advertisements and if a skip function is performed whilst viewing the twelfth advertisement the next advertisement to be displayed will be the first advertisement.

The length of the advertisement break typically three minutes is maintained so that the viewer is returned to the live content at the end of the advertisement break i.e. the live broadcast video content item is displayed at conclusion of the advertisement break. This may entail truncating a final advertisement being viewed before resumption of the live broadcast video content. For example if a viewer begins watching a 30 second advertisement 20 seconds before the content is due to resume the final 10 seconds of the advertisement will not be displayed.

In an optional arrangement the viewer may opt to view the entirety of the complete advertisement and return to the primary content item i.e. the broadcast video content item either at the live point or at a point in history this second option would only be available where the content receiver comprises a programme recording function .

In the above description decoding and or insertion of i.e. replacement advertisement content items is described with regard to video. Of course the replacement advertisement content items typically include audio data. This audio data is decoded and or inserted in a similar manner to the video data. Techniques for synchronising audio and video when inserting the replacement advertisement content items will be evident to those skilled in the art.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention a visual representation of the playlist of replacement advertisement content items may be invoked for display by the content receiver upon receipt of an instruction from a user. This visual representation of the playlist of replacement advertisement content items comprises a menu having a list of selectable content identifier items.

In the illustrated embodiment the menu contains a title field a list of content identifier items and a cursor .

The list of content identifier items comprises a vertical list of identifier items relating to the replacement advertisement content items available for insertion into the advertisement break in place of original advertisement content items as described above. The content identifier items provide at least a name of the replacement advertisement content item e.g. Title and serve as links to the replacement advertisement content item they identify. Thus if a user selects a particular content identifier item the replacement advertisement content item associated with that identifier will be displayed using processes in a similar manner as described above.

Cursor comprises a movable indication feature which highlights one content identifier item in the list of content identifier items . The cursor is movable vertically from a first position where a first content identifier item is highlighted to a second adjacent position where a second content identifier item is highlighted responsive to user input via the input device e.g. Up Down keys of a remote control .

When the cursor is located over a content identifier item the highlighted item may be enlarged compared with other content identifier items in the list of content identifier items and or gain a border. Additionally further information relating to the content may be displayed within the content identifier item e.g. Quality HD SD Premium Icon to indicate that payment is required to view the content age certificate icon a content owner logo content length and one line synopsis of content .

The content identifier items may comprise one or more of image data video data and text data. The image data may comprise images and or icons in a particular format e.g. JPEG.

The cursor may also comprise a directional indicator to indicate to a user that the list can be navigated using Up Down arrows of the remote control. If the cursor is positioned over the first item in the list only a down indicator should be visible and likewise if the cursor is positioned over the last item in the list only an up indicator should be visible.

However in an optional arrangement the list of content identifier items may be arranged in a carousel manner such that there is no beginning and no end. In such an arrangement both the up and down indicators are always visible. If the menu list or carousel is arranged in a horizontal arrangement then left and right indicators may be displayed.

Optionally when an advertisement break begins a first replacement advertisement content item is inserted in place of an original advertisement in the broadcast feed.

The user may opt to watch the advertisement or instruct the content receiver to invoke display of the above described menu indicating the playlist of replacement advertisements. The user can select from the menu a desired replacement advertisement for display.

Although in the above described one or more embodiments a final replacement advertisement content item is truncated in order to return to the display of a broadcast video content item i.e. a television programme this need not be the case.

In a content receiver which has a programme recording capability rather than returning to the display of a television programme a final replacement advertisement content item may be displayed in full before returning to display of the television programme. The recording facility of the content receiver is arranged to record the television programme from the end of the advertisement break until instructed to stop recording. Thus when the final replacement advertisement content item concludes it is not the live television programme which is displayed but a recorded version of it.

When the final replacement advertisement content item is viewed in full the content receiver may also offer the user the option of viewing the television programme from its current live point i.e. an initial portion of the television programme overlapping with the final replacement advertisement content item after the end of the original advertisement break will be missed or to watch a recorded version of the television programme as described above.

In the above described one or more embodiments when an advertisement break begins a playlist of replacement advertisement content items is retrieved from replacement advertisement database of the content receiver and displayed instead of the received broadcast transport stream.

The length of the advertisement break typically three minutes is maintained so that the viewer is returned to the live broadcast video content at the end of the advertisement break i.e. the live broadcast video content item is displayed at conclusion of the advertisement break. This may entail truncating a final advertisement being viewed before resumption of the live broadcast video content. For example if a viewer begins watching a 30 second advertisement 20 seconds before the content is due to resume the final 10 seconds of the advertisement will not be displayed.

In an optional arrangement the viewer may opt to view the entirety of the final advertisement and return to the primary content item i.e. the broadcast video content item either at the live point or at a point in history this second option would only be available where the content receiver comprises a programme recording function .

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more content identifier items may each include one or more sub fields. Each one or more sub field comprising a link to further content items associated with the replacement advertisement content item to which the content identifier item in which the sub field is located relates.

Further content items optionally comprise long form versions of the replacement advertisement content items in the playlist. Thus when a sub field link is selected a long format version of the replacement advertisement content item to which the sub field relates is displayed.

As with the replacement advertisement content items the further content items may be stored on the replacement advertisement database in disk storage of the content receiver and are accessed therefrom. However this need not be the case and the further content items may be stored remotely. In this case the sub field link comprises a link to the remote address where the further content items are stored. Upon selection of such a sub field link a request is sent by the content receiver to the remote location for retrieval of the selected further content item.

Optionally a link to a further content item is displayed on screen when a replacement advertisement content item is displayed. Again this may comprise a link to a long form version of the replacement advertisement content item currently being displayed. Selection of the link invokes display of the further content item. As above the one or more further content items may be stored locally and or remotely.

Optionally display of a long form version of a replacement advertisement content item may be invoked by the content receiver upon receiving a user instruction entered via input device. This instruction may be a single key press of a button on a remote control device.

The above one or more embodiments are to be understood as illustrative examples of the invention. Further embodiments of the invention are envisaged as follows.

In an optional arrangement replacement advertisement content items may be inserted into breaks in the broadcast content item other than advertisement breaks. For example if transmission of the broadcast content item fails and thus no broadcast signal is received at the content receiver replacement advertisement content items could automatically be displayed.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the replacement advertisement database may comprise a protected portion of disk storage . Only replacement advertisement content items may be stored in this portion of disk storage .

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution is via transmission over both a communications network as either streaming video or as a progressive download and a video distribution network as broadcast video . The communications network may be for example the Internet or a local private network a wireless network or a telecommunications network such as for example General Packet Radio Service GPRS or a telecommunications network based on a Third Generation 3G telecommunications standard such as for example the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 and the distribution receiver receives the transmission via a communications network for example a network card or a broadband modem or a wireless network card or a telecommunications receiver such as a GPRS receiver or a receiver based on a Third Generation 3G telecommunications standard such as for example the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UTMS or Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 .

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution technique may be via a storage medium for example a hard disc or an optical storage medium such as a Digital Versatile Disc DVD or a High Definition DVD HD DVD such as a Blue Ray Disc and the content receiver is a device for accessing the storage medium such as a hard disc or a DVD player or an HD DVD player.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via a user recorded storage medium such as a hard disc or a Video Home System VHS cassette or for example an optical storage medium such as a Digital Versatile Disc DVD or a High Definition DVD HD DVD such as a Blue Ray Disc and the content receiver is a device for accessing the user recorded storage medium such as means for accessing a hard disc or a VHS cassette player or a DVD player or an HD DVD player.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via a user recorded storage medium that is internal to the content receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via a user recorded storage medium that is external to and coupled with the content receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via a user recorded storage medium at a remote location and includes transmission to the content receiver via a communications network such as for example the Internet.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via terrestrial television broadcast and the content receiver is a terrestrial television receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via satellite television broadcast and the content receiver is a satellite television receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention content distribution may be via cable television broadcast and the content receiver is a cable television receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content receiver may be configured to specify its capabilities to the MDMS for example each time search request is invoked and or when a request for content is sent to the MDMS.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content receiver may be a computer or content stored on a computer on a home network.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content receiver may be a mobile device such as for example a portable computer a mobile phone or another receiver of Digital Video Broadcast for Handheld devices DVB H .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content display may be a visual display unit such as a computer monitor.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content display may be a screen embedded in a mobile device.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content navigation module may be invoked via the user selection of a menu item displayed by the video receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content navigation module and the browser application may be components of a single computer program.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content navigation module may be implemented as dynamically generated content presented by the content receiver for example where the dynamically generated content is a web page in a markup language such as for example Hypertext Markup Language HTML .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content navigation module may be implemented as dynamically generated content presented by the browser application that is generated by a remote system and transmitted to the browser application via a communications network.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content receiver may be able to render items of content relating to TV applications described in a markup language or other Interactive engine such as for example Hypertext Markup Language HTML TV Markup Language TVML or wTVML Extensible HTML XHTML XHTML Basic CE HTML or another Extensible Markup Language XML based content description.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the browser application may be able to render content in the form of a video sequence such as for example a video received via a communications network or a video distributed via a broadcast method received by the content receiver or a video stored on a storage medium accessed by the content receiver.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the search function comprises a sub image embedded in content.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the input device may be a keypad on a mobile device for example a keypad on a mobile phone.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the link to content may be a Universal Resource Identifier URI .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the link to content may direct the content receiver to access content that is for example a video sequence that is for example received via a communications network or distributed via a broadcast method or stored on a storage medium or a TV application capable of being accessed via an interactive content engine installed on the device.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the links to content may be paid for interactive or video advertisements.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content output component may be able to present a video sequence decoded by the video decoder in one portion of the video display and graphics produced by programs running on the graphics processor in another portion of the display.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content output component may be able to present graphics produced by programs running on the graphics processor that consume the entire display.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content output component produces an analogue computer display signal such as a Video Graphics Array VGA signal.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the video output component produces a digital display signal such as a Digital Visual Interface DVI signal.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the video output component produces a high definition digital display signal such as a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI signal.

It will be appreciated that the term playback is intended to refer to the display of live video content such as a live sporting event as well as recorded video content.

It is to be understood that any feature described in relation to any one embodiment may be used alone or in combination with other features described and may also be used in combination with one or more features of any other of the embodiments or any combination of any other of the embodiments.

Insofar as embodiments of the invention described above are implementable at least in part using a software controlled programmable processing device such as a general purpose processor or special purposes processor digital signal processor microprocessor or other processing device data processing apparatus or computer system it will be appreciated that a computer program for configuring a programmable device apparatus or system to implement the foregoing described methods apparatus and system is envisaged as an aspect of the present invention. The computer program may be embodied as any suitable type of code such as source code object code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. A skilled person would readily understand that term computer in its most general sense encompasses programmable devices such as referred to above and data processing apparatus and computer systems.

Suitably the computer program is stored on a carrier medium in machine readable form for example the carrier medium may comprise memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analogue media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Company Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD subscriber identity module tape cassette solid state memory. The computer program may be supplied from a remote source embodied in the communications medium such as an electronic signal radio frequency carrier wave or optical carrier waves. Such carrier media are also envisaged as aspects of the present invention.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the invention. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

The scope of the present disclosure includes any novel feature or combination of features disclosed therein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalisation thereof irrespective of whether or not it relates to the claimed invention or mitigate against any or all of the problems addressed by the present invention. The applicant hereby gives notice that new claims may be formulated to such features during prosecution of this application or of any such further application derived therefrom. In particular with reference to the appended claims features from dependent claims may be combined with those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in specific combinations enumerated in the claims.

