---

title: Methods for the detection of HIV-1-specific antibodies employing GP41 polypeptides
abstract: This invention relates to compositions and methods or the detection of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection by conducting an immunoassay comprising the steps of: (a) contacting a biological sample containing HIV-1 antibody with a peptide, having an epitope, of one or more of SEQ ID 49-56 to form a peptide-anti-HIV-1 antibody complex; (b) contacting the formed complex with an anti-HIV-1 antibody binding molecule to permit the anti-HIV-1 antibody binding molecule to bind to the anti-HIV-1 antibody of the formed peptide-anti-HIV-1 antibody complex and form an extended complex that is immobilized on a solid support; (c) removing unbound anti-HIV-1 antibody and anti-HIV-1 antibody binding molecule from the extended complex; and (d) determining the presence or concentration of the anti-HIV-1 antibody in the biological sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08722324&OS=08722324&RS=08722324
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary Department of Health and Human Services
number: 08722324
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 662 370 filed Jan. 24 2008 which is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2005 031287 filed Sep. 2 2005 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 607 579 filed Sep. 8 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 676 931 filed May 3 2005. The entire contents of these patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to compositions and methods for the detection of immunodeficiency virus infection especially human immunodeficiency virus 1 HIV 1 infection. The invention particularly concerns compositions and methods that may be used in HIV vaccine recipients whose sera may contain vaccine generated anti HIV 1 antibodies.

The human immunodeficiency virus HIV is a pathogenic retrovirus Varmus H. 1988 R Science 240 1427 1439 Cowley S. 2001 TBOHIV I Lepr Rev. 72 2 212 20 . HIV 1 is the causative agent of acquired immune deficiency syndrome AIDS and related disorders Gallo R. C. et al. 1983 Isolation of human T cell leukemia virus in acquired immune deficiency syndrome AIDS Science 220 4599 865 7 Barre Sinoussi F. et al. IOA T LRFA PARFAIDS AIDS 1983 Science 220 868 870 Gallo R. et al. 1984 FDAIOCR HTLV III FPWAIDS AARFAIDS Science 224 500 503 Teich N. et al. 1984 RNA TV Weiss R. et al. eds. Cold Spring Harbor Press NY pp. 949 956 .

Since 1987 more than 25 000 individuals have received immunizations with human immunodeficiency virus HIV preventive vaccines. Currently most of the HIV vaccine candidates are complex products containing multiple viral genes or proteins. Prime boost strategies are under way to optimize cellular and humoral immune responses. Consequently vaccine recipients sera are often reactive in licensed HIV serodetection assays generating patterns indistinguishable from HIV infected individuals Ackers M. L. et al. 2003 HIV HIV SAUHIV VR J Infect Dis 187 879 986 Pitisuttithum P. et al. 2003 SAIOCORSE AB HIVT1 EG120 VIHTA J Infect Dis 188 219 227 Chuenchitra T. et al. 2003 LSOHIRIHIV T1 SCRF01 AE E ITPWDRODP AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 19 293 305 Schwartz D. H. et al. 1995 UOVCAHIV HIV ADKFUICWETOHIV 1 V Clin Diagn Lab Immunol 2 268 271 . This will have a negative impact on future prophylactic vaccine trials in which early detection of HIV infections is of paramount importance. Furthermore long term HIV seropositivity will exclude vaccine trial participants from the pool of blood and plasma donors and will contribute to a plethora of socio economic harms including denied employment health insurance travel immigration and recruitment to the armed forces Belshe R. B. et al. 1994 IHIV STRIT1990S SROHIV VSIUV NIAID AIDS Vaccine Clinical Trials Group. Ann Intern Med 121 584 589 Allen M. et al. 2001 T RDIHIV VCT. AIDS RHR17 667 674 . Therefore the prospect of seroconversion could deter potential trial participants and severely curtail recruitment into large scale trials around the globe Gross M. et al. 1996 IAG BMIGBIPICTOPHIV V J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 12 406 412 Sheon A. R. et al. 1998 PDAVIPHIV VT LFA PII T J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 19 519 526 Koblin B. A. et al. 1998 ROH RPITHIV NFPTTPIHIV VETITUS Aids 12 785 793. Currently there is no HIV detection assay that differentiates between vaccine generated antibodies and those produced after true HIV infection during HIV vaccine trials.

HIV 2 also known as the West African AIDS Virus is closely related to the simian immunodeficiency virus and infected individuals are found primarily in West Africa Smith R. S. et al. 1990 SPATDHIVT1 A2 ISI Arch Pathol Lab Med. 114 3 254 258 Baillou A. et al. 1991 FSOHIVS1 HIV 1 AHIV 2 IBUSORAIDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 SIV J Clin Microbiol. 29 7 1387 1391 .

HIV acts to compromise the immune system of infected individuals by targeting and infecting the CD 4 T lymphocytes that would otherwise be the major proponents of the recipient s cellular immune system response Dalgleish A. et al. 1984 TCD4 T4 AIAECOTRFTAIDS R Nature 312 767 768 Maddon et al. 1986 TT4 GETAIDS VRAIEITISATB Cell 47 333 348 McDougal J. S. et al. 1986 BOHTLV III LAV TT4 T CBA COT110K VPATT4 M Science 231 382 385 . HIV infection is pandemic and HIV associated diseases represent a major world health problem.

Infection of cells by HIV 1 requires membrane attachment of the virion and subsequent fusion of the viral and cellular membranes. The fusion process is mediated by the viral outer envelope glycoprotein complex gp120 gp41 and target cell receptors McGaughey G. B. et al. 2004 PTTDOA HIV 1 41 DV Curr HIV Res. 2 2 193 204 . The envelope glycoprotein is synthesized as a precursor protein gp160 that is proteolytically cleaved into two non covalently associated protein subunits a surface subunit gp120 and a transmembrane subunit gp41 . The gp120 envelope protein is responsible for binding to the CD4 cell surface receptor and a chemokine co receptor CCR5 or CXCR4. Following receptor binding the membrane anchored gp41 mediates fusion of the viral and target cell membranes. The gp41 ectodomain contains a hydrophobic glycine rich fusion peptide amino acids 512 527 at the amino terminus that is essential for membrane fusion numbering based on HXB2 gp160 variant as described in Chan D. C. et al. 1997 CSOG41 FTHIV EG Cell 89 2 263 273 . Two 4 3 hydrophobic repeat regions following the fusion peptide are defined by a heptad repeat abcdefg n where the residues occupying the a and d positions are predominantly hydrophobic. The two heptad repeat regions are referred to as the N36 residues 546 581 and C34 residues 628 661 peptides. A loop region containing a disulfide linkage separates the two heptad repeat regions. The region of the gp41 ectodomain proximal to the viral membrane is abundant in the amino acid tryptophan amino acids 665 683 and has been shown to be critical for the membrane fusion mechanism of HIV 1. Gp41 exists in two distinct conformations a native or non fusogenic state and a fusion active state fusogenic state McGaughey G. B. et al. 2004 PTTDOA HIV 1 41 DV Cuff HIV Res. 2 2 193 204 . On the surface of free virions gp41 exists in the native state with the N terminal fusion peptide largely inaccessible. Following interaction of the gp120 gp41 complex with cell surface receptors gp41 undergoes a series of conformational changes leading to the fusion active conformation Chan D. C. et al. 1998 HIV EII Cell 93 5 681 684 . The transition from the native non fusogenic to fusion competent state proceeds through a nascent species termed the prehairpin intermediate. In this transient conformation the N and C terminal regions of gp41 become separated the N terminal fusion peptide is inserted into the target cell membrane and the C terminal region is anchored to the viral membrane. The prehairpin intermediate ultimately folds into the fusion active confonnation bringing the viral and target membranes into proximity allowing viral entry into the target cell Chan D. C. et al. 1998 HIV EII Cell 93 5 681 684 .

The detection of HIV infection may be accomplished by either identifying viral proteins in the sera of infected individuals by identifying viral nucleic acids in plasma or cells or by detecting host antibodies that are produced by such individuals in response to viral infection. Strategies involving the detection of viral proteins are complicated by the low levels of such proteins during HIV infection and by high assay cost. Thus the detection of HIV infection is typically accomplished by detecting host anti HIV antibodies Manocha M. et al. 2003 CMAPPLEIA ELISA FDOHIVT 1 HIV 1 AT 2 HIV 2 A Immunol Lett. 85 3 275 278 . Such detection is however complicated by the etiology of HIV infection in which a significant initial eclipse period precludes detection of elicited antibodies Mortimer P. P. 1991 TFOHIV WB Lancet 11 286 286 and by persistant false positive results Gnann J. W. Jr. et al. 1989 C DSPIFDHIV T1 AT2 I178 693 714 . Due to these problems more sensitive and expensive tests such as the Western blot are often needed to confirm positive screening test results or to detect low level of circulating virus. However Western blot analyses sometimes give indeterminate results so that a combination of screening tests ELISA or Rapid tests is required to confirm the diagnosis Mortimer P. P. 1991 TFOHIV WB Lancet 11 286 286 Brattegaard K. et al. 1995 IOA SP BT P LAV 1 2 FTDOHIV IIAC9 6 656 657 . Additionally different HIV proteins are expressed at different times during infection. For example the env gene products of HIV have been found to induce an immune response that precedes the immune response of HIV s gag related gene products D pel S. H. et al. 1991 COFA HIV SAWBTDTG29 331 337 .

The most common screening method for the diagnosis of infection with human immunodeficiency virus HIV is the detection by sandwich ELISA of virus specific antibodies elicted by infected individuals in response to the infection D pel S. H. et al. 1991 COFA HIV SAWBTDTG Eur. J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. 29 331 337 Manocha M. et al. 2003 CMAPPLEIA ELISA FDOHIVT 1 HIV 1 AT 2 HIV 2 A85 3 275 278 Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I4 4 285 290 Beristain C. N. et al. 1995 EOA DMFTDOHIVI9 6 347 350 . First generation assays used purified viral proteins obtained from infected cells to bind and identify such antibodies. However since diagnostically relevant viral proteins such as those encoded by the HIV 1 env gene were difficult to obtain in large quantities second generation assays were soon developed that employed recombinantly produced HIV antigens.

Unfortunately the use of such recombinant products requires extensive protein purification in order to avoid false positive results. Thus it has been proposed that synthetic peptides be used to bind to and detect HIV 1 antibodies D pel S. H. et al. 1991 COFA HIV SAWBTDTG Eur. J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. 29 331 337 Manocha M. et al. 2003 CMAPPLEIA ELISA FDOHIVT 1 HIV 1 AT 2 HIV 2 A Immunol Lett. 85 3 275 278 Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 Baillou A. et al. 1991 FSOHIVS1 HIV 1 AHIV 2 IBUSORAIDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 SIV J Clin Microbiol. 29 7 1387 1391 Gnann J. W. Jr. et al. 1989 C DSPIFDHIV T1 AT2 I Methods Enzymol. 178 693 714 Beristain C. N. et al. 1995 EOA DMFTDOHIVI J Clin Lab Anal. 1995 9 6 347 350 Modrow S. et al. 1989 CBSOIELISA TSFDBHIV 1 AHIV 2 I J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2 2 141 148 Smith R. S. et al. 1990 SPATDHIVT1 A2 ISI Arch Pathol Lab Med. 114 3 254 258 .

Synthetic peptide antigens coupled with ELISA offers several potential advantages over other types of assays potentially increasing the sensitivity and specificity of the assay decreasing its cost and providing a relatively simple format that would be suitable for testing sizeable number of samples in any laboratory Manocha M. et al. 2003 CMAPPLEIA ELISA FDOHIVT 1 HIV 1 AT 2 HIV 2 A Immunol Lett. 85 3 275 278 . Additionally such peptides if they elicit antibody formation could be used as an anti HIV vaccine Petrov R. V. et al. 1990 TUOSPITDOHIV I Biomed Sci. 1 3 239 244 .

Suitable synthetic peptides comprise short protein sequences that can be recognized by antibodies that have been elicited through an individual s exposure to the intact viral protein Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 . In particular it has been proposed that such peptides must possess the following characteristics 1 an ability to detect an antibody response in all HIV infected individuals 2 an ability to detect an antibody response as early as possible after infection and 3 an ability to maintain detection of antibody response over all stages of the disease D pel S. H. et al. 1991 COFA HIV SAWBTDTG Eur. J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. 29 331 337 D pel S. H. et al. 1990 FMOAIROTTPOTHIV HIV 1 J. Virol. Meth. 25 167 178 Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 . In particular the HIV 1 p24 gag protein gp160 120 env protein and gp41 env envelope transmembrane protein have been proposed as having serodiagnostic importance and as being a potential source of suitable peptides Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 .

Additionally it is important to be able to distinguish between the HIV 1 and HIV 2 variants of HIV Smith R. S. et al. 1990 SPATDHIVT1 A2 ISI Arch Pathol Lab Med. 114 3 254 258 Baillou A. et al. 1991 FSOHIVS1 HIV 1 AHIV 2 IBUSORAIDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 SIV J Clin Microbiol. 29 7 1387 1391 Modrow S. et al. 1989 CBSOIELISA TSFDBHIV 1 AHIV 2 I J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2 2 141 148 . These variants share 40 60 homology at the amino acid level Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 Gueye Ndiaye A. et al. 1993 C EDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 BR EEP 566 996 D BA AIDS. 7 4 475 481 .

Methods for detecting HIV or other viral pathogens are disclosed in WO9008162A1 and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 689 879 6 649 749 6 623 920 6 589 734 6 586 177 6 582 920 6 541 609 6 534 285 6 531 276 6 492 104 6 458 527 6 399 307 6 352 826 6 270 959 6 252 059 6 245 737 6 048 685 6 008 044 5 928 642 5 925 513 5 891 623 5 856 088 5 849 494 5 830 641 5 721 095 5 712 385 5 705 331 5 695 930 5 681 696 5 660 979 5 637 453 5 599 662 5 476 765 5 462 852 5 459 060 5 260 189 and in European Patent Documents EP0439077B1 EP0439077A2.

Substantial progress has been made in the management and treatment of HIV 1 infection. However available antiretroviral therapies can cause metabolic toxicity Sommerfelt M. A. et al. 2004 NP BHIV 1 I Expert Opin Biol Ther. 4 3 349 61 and thus alternative strategies to control HIV 1 infection are needed McGaughey G. B. et al. 2004 PTTDOA HIV 1 41 DV Curr HIV Res. 2 2 193 204 . The use of peptide immunogens has been proposed as the basis for an anti HIV 1 vaccine Sommerfelt M. A. et al. 2004 NP BHIV 1 I Expert Opin Biol Ther. 4 3 349 61 Berzofsky J. A. et al. 1995 NATPAEPVFHIV UDE AI1994 1995 AIDS 9 Suppl A S143 157 Choppin J. et al. 2001 COHIV 1 NRCMCD8 T CE WOHLA BMASTPD J Immunol. 166 10 6164 6169 Berzofsky J. A. et al. 1999 ATIEVFHIVAOVTCCI lmmunol Rev. 170 151 172 Cho M. W. 2003 SPV TAPCFHIV 1 Curr Mol Med. 3 3 243 263 Sabatier J. M. et al. 1989 UOSPFTDOAATNRPISOHIV IP AIDS. 3 4 215 220 van der Ryst E. 2002 PIHIV VR Oral Dis. 8 Suppl 2 21 26 Zolla Pazner S. 2004 IEOHIV 1 TIPA Nat Rev Immunol. 4 3 199 210.

Unfortunately the identification of suitable peptides is encumbered by the rapid mutation and recombination exhibited by retroviruses extreme variability is found in HIV proteins. Although conserved regions in HIV 1 gp120 residues 495 516 gp41 residues 67 83 and 584 618 and gp36 residues 574 602 have been investigated as potential sequences for candidate peptides Alcaro M. C. et al. 2003 SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 4 4 285 290 prior efforts to define suitable peptides have not been fully satisfactory. Petrov R. V. et al. disclose that many candidate peptides failed to identify HIV infection in HIV infected individuals necessitating the use of multiple peptides in order to detect HIV infection Petrov R. V. et al. 1990 TUOSPITDOHIV I Biomed Sci. 1 3 239 244 . Thus an important problem facing the field of HIV diagnostics is the identification of a suitable peptide that would be recognized broadly or universally by the full range of clinically identified HIV variants. Likewise at present no identified peptide has resulted in an HIV 1 immunotherapy that could be used as the basis for a vaccine that would provide substantial or full immunoprotection to infection by such variants Sommerfelt M. A. et al. 2004 NP BHIV 1 I Expert Opin Biol Ther. 4 3 349 61 . In addition suitable diagnostic tests should be able to distinguish between individuals whose sera contain anti HIV antibodies as a result of their receipt of an anti HIV vaccine and individuals whose sera contain anti HIV antibodies as a result of HIV infection. The present invention is directed to this and other needs.

This invention relates to compositions and methods for the detection of immunodeficiency virus infection especially human immunodeficiency virus 1 HIV 1 and human immunodeficiency virus 2 HIV 2 infection. The invention particularly concerns compositions and methods that may be used in HIV vaccine recipients whose sera may contain vaccine generated anti HIV antibodies. The invention also concerns peptide antigens that may be used in anti HIV vaccine compositions.

Most of the HIV 1 prophylactic vaccines currently under development are complex products containing multiple viral genes or proteins. As a result vaccine recipients sera are expected to be identified as reactive in HIV 1 or HIV 2 or both HIV 1 2 seroconversion detection assays and thus to produce patterns indistinguishable form sera obtained from infected individuals. This will have a negative impact on future clinical trials of prophylactic HIV vaccines that require early detection of breakthrough infections. It will also exclude all vaccinees from the pool of potential blood donors and may contribute to other social harms. The present invention is directed in part to the identification of new HIV 1 and HIV 2 epitopes which are a broadly reactive with early serum samples from individuals infected with HIV virus strains from all clades b do not contain protective antibody or cytotoxic epitopes and c can be easily removed from current and future HIV 1 candidates. In a preferred embodiment Gene Fragment Phage Display libraries constructed from whole HIV 1 genome are used to identify such epitopes and to construct differential enzyme immunoassays that are capable of distinguishing reactivities from infection induced anti HIV antibodies from vaccine induced anti HIV reactivities.

In one aspect the invention relates to a method for detecting the presence or measuring the concentration of an anti HIV 1 antibody in a biological sample of a human wherein said method comprises conducting an immunoassay comprising the steps of a contacting said biological sample with a peptide having an epitope that is recognized by said anti HIV 1 antibody said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 1 antibody if present in said sample to bind to said epitope and form a peptide anti HIV 1 antibody complex b contacting said formed peptide anti HIV 1 antibody complex with an anti HIV 1 antibody binding molecule said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 1 antibody binding molecule to bind to anti HIV 1 antibody of said formed peptide anti HIV 1 antibody complex and form an extended complex and c determining the presence or concentration of said anti HIV 1 antibody in said biological sample by determining the presence or concentration of said formed extended complex wherein said epitope is present on a peptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1 11 49 56 90 and 141.

In another aspect the invention relates to a a peptide or protein comprising an epitope that is recognized by an anti HIV 1 antibody wherein said epitope is present on a peptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 50 SEQ ID NO 55 or SEQ ID NO 141.

In another aspect the invention relates to a peptide or protein having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 50 SEQ ID NO 55 or SEQ ID NO 141.

In another aspect the invention relates to an immunological complex comprising a peptide bound to an anti HIV 1 antibody wherein said anti HIV 1 antibody is additionally bound to an anti HIV antibody binding molecule wherein said peptide or protein comprises an epitope that is recognized by an anti HIV 1 antibody said epitope being present on a peptide or protein having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1 11 49 56 90 and 141.

In a further aspect the invention relates to a kit for detecting the presence or measuring the concentration of an anti HIV 1 antibody in a biological sample of a human wherein said kit comprises a hollow casing comprising a multilayer filter system and first and second porous carriers wherein said second porous carrier is in communication with said first porous carrier and said first porous carrier is in communication with said multilayer filter system a portion of which is accessible from said casing wherein said first porous carrier contains a non immobilized labeled peptide or protein and said second porous carrier contains an immobilized unlabeled antibody that binds to human IgG wherein said peptide or protein comprises an epitope that is present on a peptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 1 11 49 56 90 and 141.

In a further aspect the invention relates to a method for detecting the presence or measuring the concentration of an anti HIV 2 antibody in a biological sample of a human wherein said method comprises conducting an immunoassay comprising the steps of a contacting said biological sample with a peptide having an epitope that is recognized by said anti HIV 2 antibody said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 2 antibody if present in said sample to bind to said epitope and form a peptide anti HIV 2 antibody complex b contacting said formed peptide anti HIV 2 antibody complex with an anti HIV 2 antibody binding molecule said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 2 antibody binding molecule to bind to anti HIV 2 antibody of said formed peptide anti HIV 2 antibody complex and form an extended complex and c determining the presence or concentration of said anti HIV 2 antibody in said biological sample by determining the presence or concentration of said formed extended complex wherein said epitope is present on a peptide having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 101 102.

In another aspect the invention relates to a method for detecting the presence or measuring the concentration of an anti HIV 1 antibody in a biological sample of a human wherein said method comprises conducting an immunoassay comprising the steps of a contacting said biological sample with an epitope set comprising at least one epitope that is recognized by said anti HIV 1 antibody wherein said epitope set consists essentially of an HIV 1 GAG p6 epitope or epitopes an HIV 1 gp41 terminal region epitope or epitopes or a combination of an HIV 1 GAG p6 epitope or epitopes and an HIV 1 gp41 terminal region epitope or epitopes said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 1 antibody if present in said sample to bind to epitopes in said epitope set and form an epitope anti HIV 1 antibody complex b contacting said formed epitope anti HIV 1 antibody complex with an anti HIV 1 antibody binding molecule said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 1 antibody binding molecule to bind to anti HIV 1 antibody of said formed epitope anti HIV 1 antibody complex and form an extended complex and c determining the presence or concentration of said anti HIV 1 antibody in said biological sample by determining the presence or concentration of said formed extended complex.

In a further aspect the invention relates to a method for detecting the presence or measuring the concentration of an anti HIV 2 antibody in a biological sample of a human wherein said method comprises conducting an immunoassay comprising the steps of a contacting said biological sample with an epitope set comprising at least one epitope that is recognized by said anti HIV 2 antibody wherein said epitope set consists essentially of an HIV 2 GAG p6 epitope or epitopes an HIV 2 Env gp36 epitope or epitopes or a combination of an HIV 2 GAG p6 epitope or epitopes and an HIV 2 Env gp36 epitope or epitopes said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 2 antibody if present in said sample to bind to epitopes in said epitope set and form an epitope anti HIV 2 antibody complex b contacting said formed epitope anti HIV 2 antibody complex with an anti HIV 2 antibody binding molecule said contacting being under conditions sufficient to permit said anti HIV 2 antibody binding molecule to bind to anti HIV 1 antibody of said formed epitope anti HIV 1 antibody complex and form an extended complex and c determining the presence or concentration of said anti HIV 2 antibody in said biological sample by determining the presence or concentration of said formed extended complex.

This invention relates to compositions and methods for the detection of immunodeficiency virus infection especially immunodeficiency virus 1 HIV 1 infection. The invention particularly concerns compositions and methods that may be used in HIV vaccine recipients whose sera may contain vaccine generated anti HIV 1 antibodies.

Since 1987 more than 10 000 individuals have received immunizations with human immunodeficiency virus HIV preventive vaccine constructs. Two large phase III trials are close to completion in the U.S and Thailand 8 000 vaccinees and a new phase III trial is ongoing in Thailand 16 000 vaccinees . Earlier vaccine candidates were simple and usually included a single gene product such as the viral glycoprotein gp120 or gp160. Most of the HIV 1 prophylactic vaccines currently under development are complex products containing multiple viral genes or proteins.

Unfortunately despite such efforts the HIV pandemic continues to take its toll globally with more than 16 000 reported infections and 8 500 deaths occurring daily. Concerted efforts are underway to develop preventative HIV vaccines that will be both efficacious and economical. In the wake of the unsuccessful efficacy trials conducted with vaccines containing gp120 envelope alone Francis D. P. et al. 2003 CHIV AIDS V LLFTWFPIII ET Aids 17 147 56 Graham B. S. et al. 2005 LFF PFFHIV 1 VET J Infect Dis 191 647 649 the new generation of vaccine candidates are complex products containing multiple HIV genes or proteins using diverse delivery systems and new adjuvants. It is anticipated that within few years several vaccine candidates will progress into large scale efficacy trials particularly in countries with high infection rates. It is hoped that the new generation vaccines will offer at least partial protection against new infections and possibly reduce viral loads and delay disease progression in infected vaccinated individuals. In order to achieve the statistical power needed to demonstrate partial efficacy it will be necessary to recruit thousands of volunteers into future phase III HIV vaccine trials. Many of these volunteers will react positively in licensed HIV detection tests. Hence further improvements in HIV diagnosis are urgently required.

One of the critical determinations during ongoing trials in high risk populations is the HIV infection status of trial participants. Intercurrent infections must be detected as soon as possible in order to stop vaccination and monitor infected individuals for viral load immune status and disease progression. Treatment and public health measures depend on a timely diagnostic information. Currently vaccine trials are using an algorithm of HIV detection that incorporates antibody or antigen based kits followed by Western Blots and finally confirmatory PCR based assays. Unfortunately many of the vaccine trial participants irrespective of their HIV infection status seroconvert in all licensed antibody detection kits including the recently licensed rapid tests Ackers M. L. et al. 2003 HIV HIV SAUHIV VR J Infect Dis 187 879 986 Pitisuttithum P. et al. 2003 SAIOCORSE AB HIVTI EG120 VIHTA J Infect Dis 188 219 227 Chuenchitra T. et al. 2003 LSOHIRIHIV T1 SCRF01 AE E ITPWDRODP AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 19 293 305 Schwartz D. H. et al. 1995 UOVCAHIV HIV ADKFUICWETOHIV 1 V Clin Diagn Lab Immunol 2 268 271 . This is due to the fact that vaccine components are very similar to the diagnostic kits in composition.

Therefore recruitment of volunteers into future trials may be impeded if the informed consent forms state that volunteers are likely to seroconvert in licensed detection kits and may remain seropositive for a long time. In published surveys it has been shown that positive HIV serodiagnosis is the most important concern for volunteers willing to participate in HIV clinical trials Gross M. et al. 1996 IAG BMIGBIPICTOPHIV V J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 12 406 412 . Thus there is an immediate need to develop a simple and inexpensive assay that does not score uninfected vaccine recipients as positive but provides the necessary specificity and sensitivity to detect true HIV infections in the presence of vaccine induced antibodies.

The systems used to deliver such vaccines span the gamut from plasmid DNA to viral and bacterial vectors. Prime boost strategies have been employed in order to optimize the cellular and humoral immune responses and reach meaningful protective titers and breadth of neutralizing antibodies and high frequency of cytotoxic T cells. Unfortunately many of these constructs elicit antibodies detected by standard serologic tests for HIV 1 seroconversion. In a recent publication from the United States Center for Disease control and Prevention it was reported that 90 of vaccinees receiving a Canarypox construct expressing multiple HIV genes env gag pol protease net followed by an envelope protein boost exhibited positive results in an enzyme immunoassay EIA rapid test and Western blot Marta Louise Ackers et al. J. Infect. Dis. 2003 187 879 .

Due to increasing complexity of HIV 1 vaccine candidates most vaccinees are expected to react positive in the licensed HIV 1 detection assays EIA rapid test Western blots . There are several negative outcomes to the anticipated high prevalence of false positives in the vaccinated individuals. These outcomes reflect the criticality of distinguishing between HIV infected recipients and individuals who have merely become seroconverted due to the administration of the vaccine 

The present invention addresses these concerns by providing new HIV 1 epitopes that will fulfill some and more preferably all of the following criteria 

In order to identify epitopes that conform to the above criteria it is desirable to evaluate a large pool of potential epitopes. Advantageously a gene fragment phage display library may be employed for this purpose. Preferably such a library is produced using limited DNase I digestion of HIV 1 or HIV 2 DNA . Thus target DNA containing HIV 1 or HIV 2 is subjected to DNAse I digestion and the digestion products are fractionated for example using gel electrophoresis. The termini of the fractionated samples are preferably polished using T4 polymerase see e.g. Costa G. L. et al. 1994 PWT4 OPPITEOCOPCR F Nucleic Acids Res. 22 12 2423 and dephosphorylated. The treated fragments are then preferably introduced into a phagemid or phage vectors based on filamentous phages including M13 f1 etc. operably linked to a displayed phage protein and are then amplified to produce a phage display library each of whose members displays an HIV peptide sequence on its surface. Alternatively other libraries can be used including Ribosomal display other viruses and phages or bacterial cells or Yeast or other eukaryotic display systems for the same purpose.

Desired peptides are then identified preferably by panning the library on immobilized serum antibodies from HIV 1 infected individual early seroconversion under conditions that permit the recovery of library members that bind strongly to the immobilized antibodies . Preferably this is accomplished by capturing library members whose arrayed HIV peptide binds to an immobilized anti HIV antibody. After discarding unbound phagemids the bound phagemids are eluted and recovered eluted phagemids may be amplified to enhance their recovery .

Suitable members mapping to the HIV 1 GAG p6 RT IN Vif gp120 gp41 and Nef genes for example can be identified in this manner. Of particular interest are members mapping to the gag pol Envelope and nef encoding regions of HIV. Further screenings are preferably conducted using panels of sequential sera from HIV 1 seroconvertors. illustrates the relationship between the desired epitopes of the present invention and those of vaccine candidates.

Epitopes mapping to the HIV 1 GAG p6 gp41 Vif and Nef genes are believed to possess significant utility as diagnostic agents for the detection of anti HIV antibodies since for gp41 and p6 there is 90 sequence conservation among HIV 1 clades. Moreover gp41 and Gag p6 peptides were recognized at high frequency combined sensitivity of 99.1 by serum plasma of 1200 samples from seropositive individuals including early seroconvertors. The specificity is currently at 98.2 for p6 and 100 for gp41 1000 negative samples . The Gag p6 and gp41 peptides do not contain important known neutralizing antibody or CTL epitopes and they are not present in most HIV vaccines. Identified peptides are suitable for use in HIV diagnostic kits.

In particular the following HIV 1 peptide Gag p6 sequences were identified as comprising desired epitopes 

Each of these sequences was attached individually to a carboxy terminal SEQ ID NO 138 GGGC peptide linker.

The identified GAG epitopes SEQ ID NOs 1 11 differ in sequence from the sequences of previously identified GAG peptides. For example aligning SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 2 against the HIV 1 GAG sequence SEQ ID NO 12 NC001802 yields the following comparison sites of SEQ ID NO 12 that are not conserved are shown in single underline if conserved in either SEQ ID NO 1 or SEQ ID NO 2 or in double underline if not conserved in either SEQ ID NO 1 or SEQ ID NO 2 Table 1 

Thus both SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 2 differ in sequence from the sequence of the corresponding native HIV 1 gag gene product SEQ ID NO 12 . An alignment of these sequences with a series of gag consensus sequences Table 2 indicates that SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 2 differ in sequence from the consensus sequences. The symbol in Table 2 indicates a stop codon.

A blast search of SEQ ID NO 1 failed to identify any identical gene sequences. A blast search of SEQ ID NO 2 identified three sequences that were 100 identical to SEQ ID NO 2 Sequence AAC28445 Fang H. et al. 1995 J. Virol. 69 1 75 81 Sequence P12493 Buckler C. E. et al. Direct Submission Sequence AAB04036 Willey R. L. et al. 1986 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 83 14 5038 5042 .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 458 527 relates to an immunoassay to detect the presence of a human immunodeficiency virus using a GAG antigen that comprises at least seven contiguous amino acids from a GAG open reading frame that includes SEQ ID NO 48 

The identified Gag epitope sequences SEQ ID NO 1 or SEQ ID NO 2 or any of SEQ ID NOS 3 47 are useful as diagnostic agents in accordance with the principles of the present invention. SEQ ID NOs 1 7 are preferred as a gag epitope sequences and SEQ ID NO 3 is particularly preferred as a gag epitope sequence.

The identified gp41 epitopes SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 51 differ in sequence from the sequences of previously identified gp41 peptides. Aligning SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 51 against the HIV 1 gp41 sequence SEQ ID NO 56 NC001802 yields the following comparison sites of SEQ ID NO 56 that are not conserved are shown in single underline if conserved in either SEQ ID NO 50 or SEQ ID NO 51 or in double underline if not conserved in either SEQ ID NO 50 or SEQ ID NO 51 Table 5 

Thus both SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 51 differ in sequence from the sequence of the corresponding native HIV 1 gp41 gene product SEQ ID NO 56 . An alignment of these sequences with a series of gp41 consensus sequences Table 6 indicates that SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 51 differ in sequence from the consensus sequences.

A blast search of SEQ ID NO 50 failed to identify any identical gene sequences. A blast search of SEQ ID NO 51 identified two sequences that were 100 identical to SEQ ID NO 51 Sequence AAC28452 Fang H. et al. 1995 J. Virol. 69 1 75 81 Sequence P04582 Ratner L. et al. 1985 Nature 313 277 284 1985 . Of the sequences that differed from SEQ ID NO 51 by one amino acid residue a substitution of L38 N38 was common see e.g. Sequence CAD10927 Zheng N. N. et al. Direct Submission . SEQ ID NOs 50 53 and 55 are particularly preferred as gp41 epitope sequences.

The identified HIV 1 gp41 epitope sequences SEQ ID NO 50 or SEQ ID NO 55 or any of SEQ ID NOS 49 89 are useful as diagnostic agents in accordance with the principles of the present invention.

As one embodiment of the invention diagnostic assays are contemplated wherein an HIV 1 epitope sets are employed wherein the peptide epitope sets consist essentially of HIV 1 gp41 terminal region epitopes or HIV I GAG p6 epitopes or a combination of gp41 and GAG p6 epitopes. As used herein HIV 1 gp41 terminal region epitopes refers to epitopes contained on amino acids 784 871 of Consensus aligned seq in Los Alamos database or mutants or derivatives thereof. As used herein HIV 1 GAG p6 epitopes refers to to epitopes on amino acids 452 502 of Consensus aligned sequence in Los Alamos database or mutants or derivatives thereof. As used herein an epitope set will consist essentially of gp4 I and GAG p6 epitopes when the peptide epitope set does not contain other epitopes that show significant reactivity i.e. preferably less than 130 of background level more preferably less than 120 of background level and most preferably less than 110 of background level with anti HIV 1 antibodies.

The identified Nef epitope SEQ ID NO 90 is identical in sequence with the HIV 1 Nef sequence NC001802 SEQ ID NO 91 . An alignment of these sequences with a series of Nef consensus sequences Table 8 indicates that SEQ ID NO 90 is highly conserved.

The identified nef epitope sequence SEQ ID NO 90 or any of SEQ ID NOS 92 100 are useful as diagnostic agents in accordance with the principles of the present invention.

As one aspect of the invention it is contemplated that peptides comprising epitopes that are contained on HIV 2 Env gp36 e.g. amino acids 817 927 of MAC.US. .239 M33262 ENV aligned seq in Los Alamos database or mutants or derivatives thereof or epitopes that are contained on HIV 2 GAG p6 amino acids 461 555 of MAC.US. .239 M33262 GAGPRO aligned seq in Los Alamos database or mutants or derivatives thereof will be useful in the diagnosis of HIV 2 infection. In particular it is contemplated as an aspect of the invention that a combination of at least one epitope contained on HIV 2 gp36 and at least one epitope contained on HIV 2 GAG p6 will be useful in the diagnosis of breakthrough HIV 2 infections in individuals that have been vaccinated against the HIV 1 or HIV 2 virus or viral genes or gene products of these viruses.

The invention also relates to HIV 2 GAG p6 and HIV 2 Env gp36 epitopes shown below in Table 9 and Table 10 respectively.

The identified HIV 2 GAG p6 epitope sequence SEQ ID NO 101 or any of SEQ ID NOS 103 115 are useful as diagnostic agents in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Likewise the identified HIV 2 Env gp36 epitope sequence SEQ ID NO 102 or any of SEQ ID NOS 116 137 are useful as diagnostic agents in accordance with the principles of the present invention.

As one embodiment of the invention diagnostic assays are contemplated wherein HIV 2 epitope sets are employed wherein the epitope sets consist essentially of HIV 2 GAG p6 epitopes or HIV 2 Env gp36 epitopes. As used herein an epitope set will consist essentially of HIV 2 GAG p6 epitopes and HIV 2 Env gp36 epitopes when the peptide epitope set does not contain other epitopes that show significant reactivity i.e. preferably less than 130 of background level more preferably less than 120 of background level and most preferably less than 110 of background level with anti HIV 2 antibodies.

Peptide molecules containing the epitopes of the invention may be prepared using virtually any art known technique for the preparation of peptides. For example the peptides may be prepared using conventional step wise solution or solid phase peptide syntheses or recombinant DNA techniques or proteolysis or modifications of purified viral proteins peptides or recombinant proteins. Peptides may be prepared using conventional step wise solution or solid phase synthesis see e.g. Merrifield R B. 1969 S PPS Adv. Enzymol. Relat Areas Mol. Biol. 32 221 296 Fairwell T. et al. 1987 HPAC II TS PSACABC Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A 84 4796 4800 Kent S. B. H. CSPAP 1988 Ann. Rev. Biochem. 57 957 984 CASPP Williams et al. Eds. 1997 CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. and references cited therein SPPS A PA Atherton Sheppard Eds. 1989 IRL Press Oxford England and references cited therein .

Alternatively such peptides of the invention may be prepared by way of segment condensation as described for example in Schn lzer M. et al. CPBDUSP B EHIV P Science. 1992 Apr. 10 256 5054 221 5 Schn lzer M. ISNIB CSPPS. R HYAODS1992 September October 40 3 4 180 193 Rose et al. SS PSPAL J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1999 Aug. 4 121 7034 7038. Methods for preparing peptides are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 004 925 and 6 429 289.

The present invention is directed in part to the use of novel epitopes in diagnostic assays for the detection of HIV 1 or HIV 2. In a preferred embodiment such assays of HIV will comprise enzyme immunosorbent assays EIAs that employ one or more of the above described gp41 GAG and or nef peptides or fragments or variants thereof or one or more of the above described HIV 2 GAG or Env gp36 peptides or fragments or variants thereof In a preferred embodiment 1 2 or 3 such peptides are employed in such assays. The selected peptides alone or in combination can be used to differentiate between vaccine directed antibodies and breakthrough infection generated antibodies to assess the efficacy of vaccine clinical trials or to monitor potential infections.

Fragments or variants of the peptides preferably comprise at least 10 20 or 30 contiguous amino acids of the peptides and are at least 70 preferably at least 75 80 or 85 more preferably at least 90 and most preferably at least 95 homologous to the indicated peptides.

A preferred method for determining the best overall match between a query sequence a sequence of the present invention and a subject sequence i.e. homology also referred to as a global sequence alignment can be determined using the FASTDB computer program based on the algorithm of Brutlag et al. 1990 6 237 245. In a sequence alignment the query and subject sequences are both amino acid sequences. The result of said global sequence alignment is in percent identity. Preferred parameters used in a FASTDB amino acid alignment are Matrix PAM 0 k tuple 2 Mismatch Penalty 1 Joining Penalty 20 Randomization Group Length 0 Cutoff Score 1 Window Size sequence length Gap Penalty 5 Gap Size Penalty 0.05 Window Size 500 or the length of the subject amino acid sequence whichever is shorter.

If the subject sequence is shorter than the query sequence due to N or C terminal deletions not because of internal deletions a manual correction must be made to the results. This is because the FASTDB program does not account for N and C terminal truncations of the subject sequence when calculating global percent identity. For subject sequences truncated at the N and C termini relative to the query sequence the percent identity is corrected by calculating the number of residues of the query sequence that are N and C terminal of the subject sequence which are not matched aligned with a corresponding subject residue as a percent of the total residues of the query sequence. Whether a residue is matched aligned is determined by results of the FASTDB sequence alignment. This percentage is then subtracted from the percent identity calculated by the above FASTDB program using the specified parameters to arrive at a final percent identity score. This final percent identity score is what is used for the purposes of the present invention. Only residues to the N and C terrnini of the subject sequence which are not matched aligned with the query sequence are considered for the purposes of manually adjusting the percent identity score. That is only query residue positions outside the farthest N and C terminal residues of the subject sequence.

For example a 90 amino acid residue subject sequence is aligned with a 100 residue query sequence to determine percent identity. The deletion occurs at the N terminus of the subject sequence and therefore the FASTDB alignment does not show a matching alignment of the first 10 residues at the N terminus. The 10 unpaired residues represent 10 of the sequence number of residues at the N and C termini not matched total number of residues in the query sequence so 10 is subtracted from the percent identity score calculated by the FASTDB program. If the remaining 90 residues were perfectly matched the final percent identity would be 90 . In another example a 90 residue subject sequence is compared with a 100 residue query sequence. This time the deletions are internal deletions so there are no residues at the N or C termini of the subject sequence which are not matched aligned with the query. In this case the percent identity calculated by FASTDB is not manually corrected. Once again only residue positions outside the N and C terminal ends of the subject sequence as displayed in the FASTDB alignment which are not matched aligned with the query sequence are manually corrected for. No other manual corrections are to be made for the purposes of the present invention.

The present invention concerns the binding of peptide eptitopes and antibodies. As used herein an epitope is a 2 or 3 dimensional region of an antigen that is recognized by and that specifically binds to an antibody. As used herein an epitope and an antibody are said to be specific for one another or to recognize one another or to bind to one another if they are capable of immunospecific binding to one another.

Any of a wide variety of assay formats may be used in accordance with the methods of the present invention. Such formats may be heterogeneous or homogeneous sequential or simultaneous competitive or noncompetitive. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 563 036 5 627 080 5 633 141 5 679 525 5 691 147 5 698 411 5 747 352 5 811 526 5 851 778 and 5 976 822 illustrate several different assay formats and applications. Such assays can be formatted to be quantitative to measure the concentration or amount of an anti HIV antibody or they may be formatted to be qualitative to measure the presence or absence of an anti HIV antibody. Additional descriptions of immunoassays that may be adapted for use in accordance with the principles of the present invention are available in the scientific literature Gnann J. W. Jr et al. C DSPIFDHIV T1 AT2 I Methods Enzymol. 1989 178 693 714 Dopel S. H. et al. COFA HIV SAWBTDTG Eur J Clin Chem Clin Biochem. 1991 May 29 5 331 7 Manocha M. et al. CMAPPLEIA ELISA FDOHIVT 1 HIV 1 AT 2 HIV 2 A Immunol Lett. 2003 Feb. 3 85 3 275 8 Brattegaard K. et al. IOA SP BT P LAV 1 2 FTDOHIV IIAC AIDS. 1995 June 9 6 656 7 Beristain C. N. et al. EOA DMFTDOHIVI J Clin Lab Anal. 1995 9 6 347 50 Modrow S. el al. CBSOIELISA TSFDBHIV 1 AHIV 2 I J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 1989 2 2 141 8 Gueye Ndiaye A. et al. C EDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 BR EP 566 996 D BA AIDS. 1993 April 7 4 475 81 Sabatier J. M. et al. UOSPFTDOAATNRPISOHIV IP AIDS. 1989 April 3 4 215 20 Sommerfelt M. A. et al. NP BHIV 1 I Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2004 March 4 3 349 361 Alcaro M. C. et al. SPITDOHIV I Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2003 August 4 4 285 90 Smith R. S. et al. SPATDHIVT1 A2 ISI Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1990 March 114 3 254 8 Petrov R. V. et al. TUOSPITDOHIV I Biomed Sci. 1990 March 1 3 239 44 Zolla Pazner S. IEOHIV 1 TIPA Nat Rev Immunol. 2004 March 4 3 199 210 Baillou A. et al. FSOHIVS1 HIV 1 AHIV 2 IBUSORAIDOHIV 1 AHIV 2 SIV J Clin Microbiol. 1991 July 29 7 1387 91 McGaughey G. B. et al. PTTDOA HIV 1 G41 DV Curr HIV Res. 2004 April 2 2 193 204 .

Heterogeneous immunoassay techniques typically involve the use of a solid phase material to which the reaction product becomes bound but may be adapted to involve the binding of non immobilized antigens and antibodies i.e. a solution phase immunoassay . The reaction product is separated from excess sample assay reagents and other substances by removing the solid phase from the reaction mixture e.g. by washing . One type of solid phase immunoassay that may be used in accordance with the present invention is a sandwich immunoassay. In the sandwich assay the more analyte present in the sample the greater the amount of label present on the solid phase. This type of assay format is generally preferred especially for the visualization of low analyte concentrations because the appearance of label on the solid phase is more readily detected.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a peptide of the present invention that is specifically reactive with an anti HIV antibody is bound to a solid support i.e. immobilized and incubated in contact with the biological sample being tested for the presence of an anti HIV antibody. A blocking agent may be added to reduce non specific binding.

As will be appreciated the peptide may be incubated with the biological sample in an unbound state and then subsequently bound to the solid support i.e. immobilizable . The supports are then preferably extensively treated e.g. by washing etc. to substantially remove non HIV antibodies that may be present but that failed to bind to the bound peptide. In consequence of such treatment an immune complex forms between the peptide and anti HIV antibody.

A detectably labeled second antibody capable of binding to the initial antibody e.g. an anti human IgG antibody is then preferably added and the support is incubated under conditions sufficient to permit the second antibody to bind to any anti HIV antibody that may be present. The support is then preferably extensively treated e.g. by washing etc. to substantially remove any unbound second antibody. If anti HIV antibody is present in the test sample then the two antibodies will form an immune complex with the immobilized peptide i.e. a second antibody anti HIV antibody immobilized peptide sandwich . In such an assay the detection of second antibody bound to the support is indicative of anti HIV antibody in the sample being tested. Sandwich assay formats are described by Schuurs et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 791 932 and 4 016 043 and by Pankratz et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 935. The second antibody may be a natural immunoglobulin isolated from nonhuman species e.g. anti human IgG murine antibody anti human IgG goat antibody anti human IgM goat antibody etc. or it can be produced recombinantly or synthetically. It may be an intact immunoglobulin or an immunoglobulin fragment e.g. FAb F Ab etc. . As desired other binding molecules capable of binding to anti HIV antibodies may be employed in concert with or in lieu of such second antibodies. For example the anti HIV antibodies can be biotinylated and the second antibody can be replaced with labeled avidin or streptavidin.

To eliminate the bound free separation step and reduce the time and equipment needed for a chemical binding assay a homogeneous assay format may alternatively be employed. In such assays one component of the binding pair may still be immobilized however the presence of the second component of the binding pair is detected without a bound free separation. Examples of homogeneous optical methods are the EMIT method of Syva Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. which operates through detection of fluorescence quenching the laser nephelometry latex particle agglutination method of Behringwerke Marburg Germany which operates by detecting changes in light scatter the LPIA latex particle agglutination method of Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Tokyo Japan the TDX fluorescence depolarization method of Abbott Laboratories Abbott Park Ill. and the fluorescence energy transfer method of Cis Bio International Paris France . Any of such assays may be adapted for use in accordance with the objectives of the present invention.

The binding assay of the present invention may be configured as a competitive assay. In a competitive assay the more anti HIV antibody present in the test sample the lower the amount of label present on the solid phase.

In a manner similar to the sandwich assay the competitive assay can be conducted by providing a defined amount of a labeled anti HIV antibody and determining whether the fluid being tested contains anti HIV antibody that would compete with the labeled antibody for binding to the support. In such a competitive assay the amount of captured labeled antibody is inversely proportional to the amount of analyte present in the test sample. Smith U.S. Pat. No. 4 401 764 describes an alternative competitive assay format using a mixed binding complex that can bind analyte or labeled analyte but in which the analyte and labeled analyte cannot simultaneously bind the complex. Clagett U.S. Pat. No. 4 746 631 describes an immunoassay method using a reaction chamber in which an analyte ligand marker conjugate is displaced from the reaction surface in the presence of test sample analyte and in which the displaced analyte ligand marker conjugate is immobilized at a second reaction site. The conjugate includes biotin bovine serum albumin and synthetic peptides as the ligand component of the conjugate and enzymes chemiluminescent materials enzyme inhibitors and radionucleotides as the marker component of the conjugate. Li U.S. Pat. No. 4 661 444 describes a competitive immunoassay using a conjugate of an anti idiotype antibody and a second antibody specific for a detectable label in which the detectable response is inversely related to the presence of analyte in the sample. Allen European Patent Appin. No. 177 191 describes a binding assay involving a conjugate of a ligand analog and a second reagent such as fluorescein in which the conjugate competes with the analyte ligand in binding to a labeled binding partner specific for the ligand and in which the resultant labeled conjugate is then separated from the reaction mixture by means of solid phase carrying a binding partner for the second reagent. This binding assay format combines the use of a competitive binding technique and a reverse sandwich assay configuration i.e. the binding of conjugate to the labeled binding member prior to separating conjugate from the mixture by the binding of the conjugate to the solid phase. The assay result however is determined as in a conventional competitive assay in which the amount of label bound to the solid phase is inversely proportional to the amount of analyte in the test sample. Chieregatt et al. GB Patent No. 2 084 317 describe a similar assay format using an indirectly labeled binding partner specific for the analyte. Mochida et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 185 084 also describe the use of a double antigen conjugate that competes with an antigen analyte for binding to an immobilized antibody and that is then labeled. This method also results in the detection of label on a solid phase in which the amount of label is inversely proportional to the amount of analyte in the test sample. Sadeh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 243 749 describe a similar enzyme immunoassay in which a hapten conjugate competes with analyte for binding to an antibody immobilized on a solid phase. Any of such variant assays may be used in accordance with the present invention.

In all such assay formats at least one component of the assay reagents will preferably be labeled or otherwise detectable by the evolution or quenching of light. Such component may be a second antibody anti HIV antibody or the peptide that binds to the anti HIV antibody depending on the immunoassay format employed. Radioisotopic binding assay formats e.g. a radioimmunoassay etc. employ a radioisotope as such label the signal is detectable by the evolution of light in the presence of a fluorescent or fluorogenic moiety see Lucas et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 698 411 and Landrum et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 976 822 . Enzymatic binding assay formats e.g. an ELISA etc. employ an enzyme as a label the signal is detectable by the evolution of color or light in the presence of a chromogenic or fluorogenic moiety. Other labels such as paramagnetic labels materials used as colored particles latex particles colloidal metals such as selenium and gold and dye particles see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 313 734 4 373 932 and 5 501 985 may also be employed. The use of enzymes especially alkaline phosphatase galactosidase horse radish peroxidase or urease as the detectable label i.e. an enzyme immunoassay or EIA is preferred.

The presence of enzymatic labels may be detected through the use of chromogenic substrates including those that evolve or adsorb fluorescent UV visible light etc. in response to catalysis by the enzyme label. More preferably chemical labels may be employed e.g. colloidal gold latex bead labels etc. . Detection of label can be accomplished using multiple detectors multipass filters gratings or spectrally distinct fluors see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 781 etc. It is particularly preferred to employ peroxidase as an enzyme label especially in concert with the chromogenic substrate 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine TMB OPD or ABTS. In the case of labeling of the antibodies with peroxidase as enzyme it is possible to use the periodate technique Nakane P. K. et al. 1974 P LA. A NMOC J Histochem Cytochem. 22 1084 90 or a method reported in which the partners are linked with a heterobifunctional reagent Ishikawa E. et al. 1983 E LOAATFFEIAIS J Immunoassay. 49 3 209 327 .

Any of a wide variety of solid supports may be employed in the immunoassays of the present invention. Suitable materials for the solid support are synthetics such as polystyrene polyvinyl chloride polyamide or other synthetic polymers natural polymers such as cellulose as well as derivatized natural polymers such as cellulose acetate or nitrocellulose and glass especially glass fibers. The support can take the form of spheres rods tubes and microassay or microtiter plates. Sheet like structures such as paper strips small plates and membranes are likewise suitable. The surface of the carriers can be permeable and impermeable for aqueous solutions.

Although the foregoing description pertains to assaying for the presence of anti HIV antibodies in biological samples that are fluids e.g. sera blood urine saliva pancreatic juice cerebrospinal fluid semen etc. it will be appreciated that any fluidic biological sample e.g. tissue or biopsy extracts extracts of feces sputum etc. may likewise be employed in the assays of the present invention. Most preferably the biological sample being assayed will be serum or plasma. Table 11 illustrates the variables that may be employed in an ELISA BSA bovine serum albumin FBS fetal bovine serum HRP horsradish peroxidase AP alkaline phosphatase TMB 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine OPD o phenylenediamine dihydrochloride .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the ELISA employs a peptide for epitope presentation a 33 ng for GAG p6 or 250 ng for Env gp41 coating blocking by milk a HRP Anti Human IgG IgG Fc as the 2antibody at a 10 000 fold dilution and OPD as a substrate. Buffers that may be employed include commonly used buffers such as PBS or Tris buffers with or without Tween 20 or other detergents commonly used for immunoassays.

Materials for use in the assay of the invention are ideally suited for the preparation of a kit. Such a kit may comprise a carrier means being compartmentalized to receive in close confinement one or more containers means vials tubes and the like each of the containers means comprising one of the separate elements to be used in the method. For example one of the containers means may comprise a peptide of the present invention for example any of SEQ ID NOS 1 11 or 49 55 or 141 with or without the a peptide linker e.g. a carboxy terminal GGGC SEQ ID NO 138 peptide linker bound to a solid support A second container may comprise soluble detectably labeled second antibody preferably in lyophilized form or in solution. In addition the kit may also contain one or more containers each of which comprises a different predetermined amount of an anti HIV antibody. These latter containers can be used to prepare a standard curve into which can be interpolated the results obtained from the sample containing the unknown amount of anti HIV antibodies.

In using the kit all the user need do is add to a container a premeasured amount of a sample suspected of containing a measurable yet unknown amount of anti HIV antibody a premeasured amount of support hound peptide present in the first container and a premeasured amount of the detectably labeled second antibody present in the second container. After an appropriate time for incubation an immune complex is formed if the sample contained anti HIV antibody and is separated from the supernatant fluid and the immune complex or the supernatant fluid are detected as by radioactive counting addition of an enzyme substrate and color development or by inclusion of a chemical label e.g. colloidal gold latex beads etc. .

The present invention particularly relates to the use of immunochromatographic assay formats to detect anti HIV antibodies. In a preferred immunochromatographic assay format two contacting but spatially distinct porous carriers are employed. The first such carrier will contain a non immobilized labeled peptide of the present invention and the second such carrier will contain an immobilized but unlabeled antibody that binds to IgG e.g. where human anti HIV antibodies are being assayed the unlabeled antibody may be an anti human IgG antibody . Preferably the device will comprise a hollow casing constructed of for example a plastic material etc. in which the first carrier will communicate indirectly with the interior of the casing via a multilayer filter system that is accessible from the device e.g. by protruding therefrom or by being incompletely covered by the device such that a serum plasma or whole blood test sample can be applied directly to the filter system and will permeate therefrom into the first porous carrier. In such a device the permeation of fluid containing anti HIV antibodies will cause the non immobilized labeled peptide of the first carrier to become bound to the migrating antibodies and will then permeate into the second carrier. Because the second carrier contains immobilized antibody that binds human IgG any labeled peptide entering the second carrier will be entrapped therein. Detection of labeled peptide in the carrier containing the immobilized unlabeled antibody thus indicates that anti HIV antibodies were present in the sample being evaluated. The assay can be made quantitative by measuring the quantity of labeled peptide that becomes bound within the second porous carrier.

Having now generally described the invention the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention unless specified.

In order to identify new serologic epitopes that conform to the above discussed criteria gene fragment phage display libraries are constructed by limited DNase I digestion of HIV 1 DNA NL4 3 clone to generate random DNA fragments 50 300 bp long. The fragments are purified and polished with T4 DNA polymerase and cloned at the N termini of the coat protein of phage display vectors . This procedure results in the formation of a phage library that contains every possible encoded peptide in any of the reading frames.

The library is subjected to panning on immobilized serum antibodies from HIV 1 infected individual early seroconversion . Phages that bind to the immobilized antibodies are retained while non binding or weakly binding phages are washed off .

DNA sequencing of the captured phages after amplification in and individual separation in allows the mapping of the selected peptides to known HIV proteins. Initially 11 phagotopes were selected and sequenced. They map to GAG p6 RT IN Vif gp120 gp41 and Nef These sequences are produced as synthetic peptides

Further screenings were conducted with 5 panels of sequential sera from HIV 1 seroconvertors provided by Boston Biomedica Inc. . Four of the initial 11 epitopes are found to interact with early post infection sera demonstrating medium to high binding affinity. They map to GAG p6 gp120 gp41 and Nef. Furthermore in extended screens of random HIV seropositive plasma samples these peptides are found to be reactive with 80 99 of all seropositive plasma tested. No false reactivity is detected with 100 sera from seronegative individuals.

Based on the above described results it is concluded that a combination of 1 2 or more of the selected peptides are useful in the detection of breakthrough infections in the context of HIV vaccine trials. Sequence alignment of 3 selected peptides from GAG p6 gp41 and Nef with consensus sequences for all clades in the Los Alamos database reveals a high degree of conservation .

Large quantities of highly purified synthetic peptides expressing the identified sequences from HIV 1 GAG p6 gp41 and Nef or HIV 2 Gag p6 and gp36 are produced under GLP conditions. The synthetic peptides are used to coat ELISA plates.

The reactivities of the synthetic peptides are tested with early seroconversion samples from different countries and different clades under standardized conditions . Pre clinical and clinical samples of immune sera from recent HIV vaccine candidates likely to proceed to phase I II III trials are screened in order to confirm and expand the above described demonstration of the ability of the newly discovered HIV 1 epitopes either alone or in combination to react with high percentage of plasma from early seroconversion patients. Currently licensed EIA kits may be used for side by side analysis.

The reactivity of immune sera from recipients of complex HIV vaccine candidates as well as from pre clinical studies of these vaccines should be negative.

If plasma from Africa or Asia are not uniformly reactive with the clade B epitopes they should score positive on consensus peptides. In addition new Gene fragment phage display libraries can be constructed using HIV genomes from other clades.

The selected peptides in combination can be used to differentiate between vaccine directed antibodies and breakthrough infection generated antibodies during HIV vaccine clinical trials.

In order to determine preferred conditions for conducting an ELISA using the peptides of the present invention various combinations of peptides coating amounts blocking agents serum plasma dilutions second antibodies second antibody dilutions and substrates are tested a few are summarized in Table 11 . ELISAs are characterized for the following sample types normal non HIV infected serum samples for cut off determination confirmed HIV infected serum samples seroconversion samples serum samples from patients infected with different HIV 1 subtypes randomly collected serum samples blinded panel vaccinated individual serum samples. ELISAs are also characterized for cross reactivity with other pathogens including reteroviruses.

From such characterizations preferred assay conditions are found to employ a peptide for epitope presentation a coating of 33 ng for GAG p6 or 250 ng for ENV gp 41 blocking by 2 milk a 1 100 serum plasma dilution a HRP Anti Human IgG Fc as the 2antibody at 1 10 000 fold dilution and OPD as substrate. Buffers employed may be common buffers such as PBS or Tris buffer with or without Tween 20 or other detergents commonly used for immunoassays. All incubations are done at room temperature for 1 hr each except for blocking by milk which is done for 2 3 hrs. The peptides employed are the GAG p6 SEQ ID NO 3 and gp41 SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 55 alone and in combination. These assay conditions are employed in the ELISAs described in the examples provided below unless otherwise indicated.

Using the above described preferred assay conditions the Specimen Cut Off Ratio was determined for an HIV serum sample at times ranging from 0 to 40 days. The results of this experiment are shown in Table 12. In Table 12 Abbott HIV1 2 is a licensed HIV serodetection kit. HIV Ag is a licensed kit to detect p24. Data relating to FDA licensed EIA Kits was generated by Boston Biomedica Inc Gaithersburg USA .

The seroreactivity of the peptides during acute infection was evaluated. The results of these ELISAs are shown in Table 13.

The analysis of five different seroconversion panels shows that HIV 1 infection can be detected using the peptides of the present invention within 2 3 weeks following HIV 1 RNA detection by the polymerase chain reaction PCR .

The peptides and assays of the present invention are employed using the above described ELISA conditions to detect HIV 1 infection in serum from seroconverted individuals. The data from such assays is shown in Table 14.

The data demonstrate that the peptides and assays of the present invention can be employed to detect HIV 1 infection in serum from seroconverted individuals.

The peptides and assays of the present invention are evaluated using the above described ELISA conditions for cross clade reactivity in their detection of HIV 1 infection. The data from such assays is shown in Table 15.

The data demonstrates that the peptides and assays of the present invention exhibit broad cross clade reactivity in their detection of HIV 1 infection.

The peptides and assays of the present invention are evaluated using the above described ELISA conditions for their ability to detect HIV 1 infection using random serum samples from individuals infected with diverse HIV 1 clades. The data from such assays is shown in Table 16.

The data shown in Table 16 indicates that the gag p6 epitope had an individual sensitivity of 83 compared with 67 for the gp41 epitope. The use of both epitopes had an individual sensitivity of 82 . The overall sensitivity was 100 .

The reactivity of peptides designed based on HIV 1 subtype consensus sequences with false negative serum samples using the HIV subtype B based peptides is evaluated using the above described ELISA conditions. The data is shown in Table 17 below.

The data shows that peptides designed based on HIV 1 subtype consensus sequences with false negative serum could detect HIV infection.

In summary the data shows that HIV 1 specific peptides individually or in combination are able to detect anti HIV 1 antibodies in serum or plasma early after acute infection. The assay specificity for the 1200 samples obtained from individuals infected with diverse HIV clades is found to be 98.2 For Consensus peptide GAG p6 and 100 For Consensus peptide CON Env2 gp41 . The cross clade combined reactivity is found to be 94.4 sensitivity B subtype and 99.1 for Consensus peptides . The peptides and assays of the present invention are able to detect HIV epitopes in serum samples infected with diverse HIV 1 subtypes.

The reactivity of the CBER p6 and CBER gp41 with a wide variety of diverse serum samples are shown in Table 18 below.

Table 19 summarizes the ability of the HIV SELECTEST to detect HIV infected serum with diverse clades.

The reactivity of CBER p6 and CBER p41 with RV124 vaccine trial samples were compared with the reactivity of the BioRad Kit with RV124 vaccine trial samples at 0 and 182 days post vaccination. The vaccination given in the RV124 vaccine trials was as follows ALVAC HIV vCP205 gag LAI pro LAI gp120MN gp41TM LAI with HIV 1 gp160 protein boost gp120MN gp4l LAI 2 with Gag p6 . The results for individual samples are shown in Table Table 20 below. The results show substantially more false positive reactions using the BioRad kit versus the use of CBER p6 or CBER p41.

The reactivity of CBER p6 and CBER p41 with VRC 004 and VRC 006 vaccine trial samples are compared with the reactivity of the BioRad Kit with VRC 004 and VRC 006 vaccine trial samples. The results are shown in Table 21 below. The results show substantially more false positive reactions using the BioRad kit versus the use of CBER p6 or CBER p41.

The present invention provides a new HIV 1 detection assay in which vaccine generated antibodies will not cross react while seroconversion can be detected early post infection. The selection criteria for HIV sequences to be used in such an assay included epitopes that are 1 not included in HIV vaccines 2 recognized by antibodies early after HIV infection and 3 highly conserved among HIV clades and subtypes.

To identify such sequences a Gene Fragment Phage Display Library was constructed from the entire HIV 1 genome and used for screening of sera from HIV infected individuals around the time of seroconversion. As discussed above this strategy led to the discovery of three novel epitopes one in Gag p6 and two in the gp4l cytoplasmic tail. The development of a new HIV enzyme linked immunosorbent assay termed HIV SELECTEST which distinguishes between HIV infected individuals and uninfected vaccine recipients is described below. HIV SELECTEST is a low cost high throughput assay that could be implemented in clinical sites and blood collection centers worldwide and serve as an important diagnostic tool in HIV vaccine trials.

Plasmid pNL4 3 containing the complete HIV 1 NL4 3 proviral DNA was obtained from the NIH AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program McKesson BioServices Corp. Rockville Md. . Full length HIV 1 genome was PCR amplified from pNL4 3 DNA with the Expand long template polymerase preparation Roche Diagnostics Indianapolis Ind. and primers spanning the Lys t RNA primer binding site MSF12 SEQ ID NO 139 5 AAAAATCTCTAGCAGTGGCGCCCGAACAG 3 and the poly A signal region of 3 LTR MSR5 SEQ ID NO 140 5 AAGCACTCAAGGCAAGCTTTATTGAGGCT 3 which amplifies the entire HIV 1 genome except for 75 bp in the unique 5 U5 region of the LTR. The purified amplified DNA product was digested with DNase I using DNase shotgun cleavage kit Novagen Madison Wis. and fragments between 50 and 300 bp were isolated by preparative gel electrophoresis treated with T4 DNA polymerase to generate blunt ends and dephosphorylated using calf intestinal alkaline phosphatase CIP Roche Diagnostics Indianapolis Ind. . DNA was again purified using nucleotide removal kit Qiagen Inc Valencia Calif. and was ligated in the presence of Srf I enzyme into the Sma I site of the M13 derived phage vector for expression as gIIIp fusion protein followed by electroporation into TG1 cells. Tet resistant transformants were harvested and expanded in liquid culture 2X YT at 37 C. The cell free phage supernatant was isolated by centrifugation and phage titer was determined as Tettransduction units. Ninety six individual clones were isolated and DNA inserts were amplified by standard PCR and sequenced to determine the insert size distribution and library diversity.

Seven plasma samples constituting the HIV 1 seroconversion panel PRB 910 from SeraCare BioServices Gaithersburg Md. were used for panning of the HIV 1 gene fragment phage display library GFPDL . For removal of plasma components which could non specifically interact with phage proteins 5 fold diluted plasma was pre adsorbed three times on sterile polystyrene Petri dishes 35 mm diameter coated with 10UV killed VCSM13. For biopanning the microtiter strips NUNC Inc Naperville Ill. were coated with a mixture of 500 ng each of goat anti human IgG Fc and goat anti human IgM Fc specific antibodies in PBS pH 7.4. After three washings with PBST 20 mM PBS containing 0.1 Tween 20 DMEM containing 5 FBS blocking solution was added to wells to block the unoccupied reactive sites. VCSM13 pre adsorbed HIV 1 human plasma was added to the wells and incubated for 1 h at room temperature RT . Wells were washed thrice with PBST and 10phages per well of the HIV 1 GFPDL diluted in blocking solution were added for 2 h at RT. The unbound phages were removed in twelve washes with PBST followed by three washes with PBS. Bound phages were eluted by addition of 0.1 N HCl containing BSA 1 mg ml for 10 min at RT and neutralized by adding 8 l of 2 M Tris solution per 100 l eluate. Four rounds of affinity selection were carried out with each individual serum sample comprising the HIV seroconversion panel PRB 910.

Twenty two phage clones enriched after four rounds of biopanning on each PRB 910 plasma sample were further screened for specific recognition by HIV seropositive sera and absence of reactivity with seronegative sera in affinity capture phage ELISA. The wells of ELISA plates Immulon 2HB Thermo Labsystems Franklin Mass. were coated with 100 ng well of anti phage antibody GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. and blocked with DMEM 5 FBS. Subsequently 10phages of the selected clones were added per well and incubated for 1 h at RT. Serially diluted sera in DMEM 5 FBS were added to the 96 well plates in duplicate and incubated at RT for 1 h. The bound antibodies were probed with HRP conjugated goat anti human IgG IgM antibodies and the reactions were developed with OPD substrate solution Pierce Biotechnology Rockford Ill. . The clones demonstrating the best differential reactivity with HIV 1 seropositive sera were expanded and the inserts were sequenced and mapped to individual HIV 1 genes. Several inserts were selected for synthetic peptide synthesis and development of the HIV SELECTEST.

Peptide sequences from Gag p6 SEQ ID NO 3 452 SRPEPTAPPAESFRFGEEITPTPSQKQEPKDKELYPPLASLRSLFGNDPSSQ 502 and gp41 cytoplasmic region SK1 SEQ ID NO 50 784 LIAARIVELLGHSSLKGLRRGWEALKYLWNLLQYWGQELKNSAISL 829 and SK2 SEQ ID NO 55 836 AVAEGTDRVIEVVQRVCRAILNPRRIRQGFERALL 871 were chemically synthesized amino acid residues are numbered based on the CON OF CONS alignment sequence in the Los Alamos database . All peptides were synthesized at the Facility for Biotechnology Resources CBER FDA on Applied Biosystems peptide synthesizer models 431 and 433 Foster City Calif. by standard 9 fluorenyl methoxycarbonyl chemistry Fmoc . Peptides were purified by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography RP HPLC and characterized by mass spectrometry MALDI TOF MS .

Based on preliminary screening of HIV seronegative and seropositive sera the optimal conditions for the p6 and gp41 ELISA were determined. The p6 peptide was coated at 30 ng 100 l well while the gp41 peptides SEQ ID NO 50 and SEQ ID NO 55 were coated at 150 ng 100 l well each total 300 ng well on Immulon 2HB plates. After three washes with PBST 20 mM PBS 0.1 Tween 20 the unoccupied reactive sites were blocked by PBST containing 2 whole milk 2 WMPBST . All specimens serum or plasma were diluted 1 100 in 2 WMPBST added to peptide coated wells and incubated for 1 h at RT. The plates were then washed six times with PBST and 100 l well of HRP conjugated goat anti Human IgG Fe specific antibody Jackson ImmunoResearch West Grove Pa. diluted 1 10 000 in 2 WMPBST was added. The reactions were quantified using 0 Phenylenediamine OPD substrate.

Based on the results with 1000 seronegative samples cut off values were determined for p6 and gp41 peptides individually. The cut off values used are the average absorbance of Negative sera 5 Standard Deviations for each peptide . Specimens with an Absorbance Cut off ratios of 1 are considered HIV 1 seropositive and those with ratios

HIV 1 seroconversion panels PRB 910 PRB 924 PRB 927 PRB 928 PRB 929 PRB 931 and mixed titer panel PRB 204 were purchased from SeraCare BioServices Gaithersburg Md. . A seroconversion panel consists of plasma samples collected serially early after HIV 1 infection and the virological and immunological profiles as assessed by commercial diagnostic kits for these plasma samples were provided by SeraCare BioServices. Additionally twenty eight seroconversion panels were provided by the University of New South Wales PHAEDRA Inventory Sydney Australia . HIV negative serum samples were obtained from National Institutes of Health Blood Bank and the Vaccine Research Center VRC NIAID NIH Bethesda Md. .

Serum Plasma samples from the following HIV vaccine trials were tested HVTN 203 246 vaccinees and 78 placebos conducted by the HIV Vaccine Trial Network RV124 conducted by the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research VRC 004 40 vaccinees and 10 placebos VRC 006 30 vaccinees and 6 placebos VRC 009 9 vaccinees and no placebos and VRC 010 were conducted by the Vaccine Research Center NIAID NIH VAX 003 and VAX 004 were conducted by VaxGen Inc. The HIV infection status of a given sample was provided by the collaborating groups and also determined by in house testing using the BioRad HIV 1 2 plus O kit Bio Rad laboratories Woodinwille Wash. . Samples obtained from VRC 009 and VRC 010 trials were also tested with the Capillus HIV 1 HIV 2 and Uni Gold HIV rapid tests Trinity Biotech N.Y. .

Identification of HIV Sequences Recognized by Early Seroconversion Sera Using Gene Fragment Phage Display Library

In order to identify all the HIV sequences recognized by antibodies generated soon after HIV infection a gene fragment phage display library GFPDL was constructed spanning the entire HIV 1 open reading frame of NL4 3. The HIV 1 GFPDL contained more than 10independent transformants. PCR based analysis and sequencing of the inserts confirmed that the library consisted of 100 recombinants with an insert size of 50 300 bp and random distribution across the HIV genome.

Seven plasma samples constituting a seroconversion panel PRB 910 obtained from acutely HIV 1 infected individual SeraCare BioServices Gaithersburg Md. were used as bait for affinity selection of phages displaying HIV 1 peptides. After four rounds of biopanning 22 clones for each plasma sample were selected for insert sequencing and were analyzed by phage ELISA with HIV positive and negative sera to confirm the specificity of reactivity. Alignment of inserts with the HIV 1 genome led to identification of twelve immunodominant epitopes mapping to Gag p24 p6 Pol Env gp120 gp41 and Nef. Interestingly phages displaying sequences from the intracytoplasmic tail of gp41 amino acids 784 871 were repeatedly recognized by antibodies from both early 1 6 months and chronically infected individuals. The cytoplasmic tail of gp41 was selected as the primary candidate for the differential assay as it is unlikely to be targeted by HIV neutralizing antibodies and it is not included in most HIV vaccines currently under development. In addition a p6 sequence was also selected even though it was included in early generation HIV vaccines it contains very few HLA restricted CTL epitopes Frahm N. et al. 2004 CC T LTOIRIHIVAME. J Virol 78 2187 2200 Los Alamos database http hiv web.lanl.gov . Importantly the selected gp41 spanning amino acids 784 829 SK1 and 836 871 SK2 and the p6 amino acids 452 502 sequences are highly conserved among all HIV 1 M subtypes.

The p6 and two gp41 derived peptides were chemically synthesized and used for the development of the new assay. Based on the Los Alamos HIV sequence database consensus peptides were designed to encompass the genetic variability among HIV 1 clades. Initially each peptide was evaluated individually to determine specificity and establish cut off values. Since both gp41 peptides SK1 and SK2 displayed similar very low reactivity with HIV seronegative samples the two were combined. Multiple ELISA conditions were tested and after screening of 1000 seronegative samples cut off CO values for the gp41 CO 0.03 and p6 CO 0.15 peptides were determined. Each CO value represents the average absorbance of negative sera 5 standard deviations. Additional panels containing high intermediate and low HIV specific antibody titers were used to determine the dynamic range of the assay. Panels a and b demonstrate the binding of serially diluted representative plasma PRB 204 06 from SeraCare BioServices in the p6 and gp41 ELISA respectively. Multiple titrations with different samples demonstrated higher maximum reactivity with the gp41 peptides and a broader dynamic range when compared with the p6 peptide. Based on these analyses all subsequent ELISA testing was conducted with 1 100 dilution of sera or plasma. The HIV infection status of a given sample was determined by licensed detection kits conducted either in house or by an outside laboratory. An assay specificity of 100 for the gp41 peptides and 99.4 for the p6 peptide was established after screening of 2500 samples from uninfected or from individuals infected with diverse HIV 1 clades. The combined sensitivity of the gp41 and p6 peptides is 99.3 for detection of early and chronic infections in multiple geographical sites with clades A B C D E F J and multiple circulating recombinant forms.

The reproducibility of the assay was determined by repeatedly testing nine HIV seropositive and three HIV seronegative samples from SeraCare BioServices. The distributions of the results obtained on multiple dates were evaluated for normality and the appropriate p values were calculated using SigmaPlot. Representative plots are shown for one individual on the p6 and gp41 peptides Panels c and d respectively. The upper and lower limits 2SD represent the 95 confidence intervals. Inter assay variability was 10 and intra assay variability was 5 for all the samples tested.

To determine how soon post infection HIV specific antibodies are detected with the HIV SELECTEST several well characterized seroconversion panels were obtained from SeraCare BioServices containing sequential bleeds within 30 40 days of estimated exposure dates. As shown in Table 12 top panel the p6 peptide reacted positively with PBR 910 on collection day 26 in agreement with results obtained using licensed HIV antibody detection kits. The gp41 peptides were reactive with the day 32 sample from the same individual. For PRB 929 day 25 and day 28 samples reacted with p6 and gp41 peptides respectively Table 13 . In that individual infection was confirmed by PCR on day 14 and the Abbott HIV Ag test was positive on day 18. In Tables 12 and 13 ELISA data for P6 and GP41 are shown as the ratio of test specimen absorbance to cut off value. Ratios of 1.00 or greater are considered HIV seropositive and a sample ratio of less than 1 is considered HIV negative for Abbott assays PCR and and FDA licensed EIA kits HIV early seroconversion panels within 6 weeks after HIV infection and data for HIV RNA PCR quantification and FDA licensed serodiagnostic kits were provided by SeraCare BioServices Gaithersburg Md. .

Similar results were obtained with additional seroconversion panels from SeraCare BioServices and demonstrated that HIV infection could be detected by the HIV SELECTEST within 2 4 weeks following HIV 1 RNA detection by PCR concurrent with the sensitivity limits of licensed HIV diagnostic tests. In addition we evaluated 28 seroconversion panels spanning 6 18 months post infection from Australia Table 14 . With these panels p6 showed variable reactivity at later times post infection whereas anti gp41 reactivity increased over time and was maintained at high levels in most individuals indicating that the kinetics and avidity of the antibody responses against the p6 and gp41 epitopes were not linked. In Table 23 the date of infection was estimated to be the midpoint between the last seronegative and first seropositive results obtained with licensed HIV diagnostic kits.

The main proof of concept in support of the HIV SELECTEST should come from evaluating the reactivity of vaccine induced antibodies in the course of prophylactic vaccine trials. To that end six blinded panels from completed vaccine trials 502 vaccinees were tested including HVTN 203 conducted by the HIV Vaccine Trial Network RV 124 conducted by the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and VRC 004 VRC 006 VRC 009 and VRC 010 conducted by the Vaccine Research Center NIAID NIH . The description of the vaccine constructs used in the various trials and summary of the results obtained with the HIV SELECTEST appear in Table 22. Canarypox vaccine constructs used in the RV124 and HVTN 203 contained the p6 epitope used in the new assay. Additionally the protein boost in RV124 was gp160. In contrast the vaccine constructs used in VRC 004 and VRC 006 lacked the peptide sequences used in the HIV SELECTEST.

The RV124 trial represents the worst case scenario wherein all the peptide sequences used in the HIV SELECTEST were part of either the priming or boosting immunogens. After the last boost day 182 80 of vaccinees strongly seroconverted in commercial HIV 1 detection kits even though none were HIV infected Table 22 and Table 20 . However only two individuals scored positive in the p6 ELISA and none reacted in the gp41 ELISA. These findings suggested that the epitopes used in the HIV SELECTEST were not very immunogenic in the context of the RV124 vaccine constructs.

The HVTN 203 blinded specimens included samples from pre vaccination and four six months post vaccination obtained from 324 trial participants. In this panel 30 of vaccinees seroconverted in the licensed HIV detection assays while only 12 reacted with the p6 peptide in the HIV SELECTEST Table 22 . This finding was not surprising since the Canarypox HIV prime vCP1452 contained p6. Unexpectedly two specimens were repeatedly reactive with gp41 even though these sequences were not in the vaccine constructs. However after unblinding it was confirmed that both samples were obtained from trial participants who got infected during this phase II trial.

The VRC phase I trials VRC 004 VRC 006 VRC 009 and VRC 010 were conducted in 2002 2005. The DNA plasmids VRC 004 and non replicating recombinant Adenovirus serotype 5 vector rAd5 VRC 006 express Gag Pol Nef in VRC 004 or Gag Pol in VRC 006 and multi clade A B C envelope genes gp145 in the DNA vaccine and gp140 in the rAd5 vaccine . Among the 50 participants in VRC 004 38 15 40 of vaccinated individuals seroconverted by licensed HIV diagnostic kits Table 22 . Unexpectedly two samples reacted positive in the gp41 ELISA of which one sample also reacted with p6 in the HIV SELECTEST Table 22 . Upon unblinding it was determined that both individuals both in the placebo arm became infected during the VRC 004 trial. In the VRC 006 Ad5 HIV no intercurrent HIV infections were identified yet 60 of vaccine recipients 18 30 tested positive in licensed HIV detection tests. In contrast none of the vaccinees reacted with either the p6 or gp41 in the HIV SELECTEST Table 22 . In VRC 009 and VRC 010 a subset of DNA vaccinated individuals from VRC 004 and VRC 007 trials respectively was boosted with the rAd5 HIV vaccine. The 4 weeks post boost samples demonstrated a very significant increase in total HIV specific antibodies data not shown and 100 seroconversion using two licensed rapid tests Capillus HIV 1 HIV 2 and Uni Gold HIV Trinity Biotech N.Y. . Importantly all vaccinees in these trials tested negative in the HIV SELECTEST Table 22 .

Data obtained with the blinded panels from HIV vaccine trials tested to date indicates that vaccine generated antibodies are most likely to give negative reactivity in the HIV SELECTEST especially if the vaccines do not contain the p6 sequence. Importantly the new test detected all intercurrent infections in the blinded samples. To further determine the sensitivity of new assay in detecting acute HIV infections in the course of vaccine trials sequential samples were tested from HIV infections in completed Phase I Phase II and Phase III trials conducted by HVTN Lee D. et al. 2004 BIDP1 A2 P BHIV 1 VTWCV ALVAC ABDORG120 OG160 J Infect Dis 190 903 907 VRC and VaxGen VAX 003 VAX 004 efficacy trials Gilbert P. B. et al. 2005 CBIRTA RG120 VAIOHIV 1 IIA P3 HIV 1 PVT J Infect Dis 191 666 677 2005 .

As can be seen in Table 23 Panel a and Table 24 sequential samples obtained from 22 vaccinees infected with HIV during the HVTN trials and the VRC 004 trial reacted positive in the HIV SELECTEST at early time points after the estimated infection dates. Importantly no reactivity in the HIV SELECTEST was observed prior to HIV infections in trial participants even though they were immunized with complex vaccine products.

Sequential samples soon after the first confirmed PCR positive visit were also obtained from 65 HIV infections during VAX 003 AIDSVAX gp120 B E and 81 HIV infections during VAX 004 AIDS VAX gp120 B B trials conducted by VaxGen. The dates of PCR positivity and seroconversion by licensed HIV tests were provided by VaxGen. Table 25 contains analysis of two representative HIV infections in VAX 003 and VAX 004 trials that developed strong reactivity to p6 and gp41 peptides. Furthermore the HIV SELECTEST identified all intercurrent HIV infections within 90 days of PCR confirmation Panels b and c Table 26 and Table 27 for VAX 003 and VAX 004 respectively .

It was also possible to compare the performance of the HIV SELECTEST with results obtained with the FDA licensed kits provided by VaxGen . In most cases the earliest positive results were observed with the same samples using the licensed diagnostics and the HIV SELECTEST dots falling on the diagonal lines . Surprisingly 24 intercurrent HIV infections in VAX 003 and 25 infections in VAX 004 were detected earlier in the HIV SELECTEST compared with the licensed kits dots under the diagonal lines in Panels a and b displaying the efficacy of HIV SELECTEST in early diagnosis of HIV infection. Therefore the new assay could be part of an algorithm that will provide an important differential diagnostic tool during future phase III prophylactic vaccine trials and for testing of blood and tissue donors.

The use of a phage display library to clone and express the entire open reading frames of HIV afforded the opportunity to identify all the epitopes that are recognized by seroconversion antibodies during acute HIV infection. Affinity selection of the phage display library using seroconversion panels led to the discovery of new epitopes in gp41 and p6 which were selected to develop a new differential diagnostic test.

The results described above demonstrate that vaccine generated antibodies scored either negative or weakly positive in the HIV SELECTEST even when the p6 or gp41 sequences were part of the vaccine constructs i.e. RV124 and HVTN 203 . Furthermore the HIV SELECTEST detected all intercurrent HIV infections. It should be noted that while all intercurrent infections in the VAX 004 trial conducted in the United States and the Netherlands were with clade B viruses all the HIV infections in the VAX 003 trial conducted in Thailand were with clade E variants demonstrating the feasibility of using the HIV SELECTEST outside the United States in a multiclade scenario which is a prerequisite for global vaccine trials. Together these data provide strong proof of the specificity and sensitivity of the new p6 and gp41 peptide based ELISA. They further suggest that if future vaccine candidates do not contain these epitopes all uninfected vaccinees are expected to score negative in the new assay. In contrast antibodies generated following intercurrent infections in the course of HIV vaccine trials or at later times should be detected by the HIV SELECTEST soon after infection.

This inexpensive and high throughput assay could be added to the algorithm of detection tests used in clinical sites and in blood and plasma collection centers. As such this assay will be highly relevant for early diagnosis of intercurrent HIV infections in future vaccine trials particularly in the setting of HIV vaccines that while not able to prevent infection may reduce viral loads after acquisition. Importantly the HIV SELECTEST should help to alleviate the concerns regarding social and economic harms due to long term seroconversion of uninfected participants in preventive HIV vaccine trials.

During the above described testing it was observed that some of the sera from individuals infected with clade C viruses mainly from Southern Africa did not react strongly with the consensus Gag p6 employed SEQ ID NO 3 . The employed peptide was therefore altered to produce a peptide denoted Gag p6 C sub that is better recognized by all plasma and serum samples from HIV 1 clade C infected individuals. The sequence of the Gag p6 C sub peptide is provided below 

While HIV detection assays may be conducted using the Gag p6 C sub SEQ ID NO 141 peptide alone or in conjunction with any other peptide s etc. it is particularly preferred to combine the Gag p6 C sub peptide SEQ ID NO 141 with peptides having the sequence of the consensus Gag p6 SEQ ID NO 3 in the same ELISA plate.

All publications and patents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

