---

title: Water sampling device and method for use with a radiation probe
abstract: A water sampling device and method for use with a radiation probe. The device includes a base, filtrate reservoir, filter media support disc, and sample reservoir. The sample reservoir may be interchanged with a radiation probe adaptor. The device and method provide a simple and convenient means to separate particulate solids from a water sample prior to measuring radioactivity without the need for a heat source or electrical power to evaporate the water. The device and method can be used with a variety of commercially available radiation probes and is suitable for field applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08342337&OS=08342337&RS=08342337
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08342337
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100325
---
The detection of alpha and beta radiation in water samples is complicated by the fact that these forms of radiation are attenuated by water. Current procedures require evaporation of the water in a given sample in order to separate the particulate solids found in the water sample from the water prior to measuring radioactivity. Such practices are described in the International Organization for Standardization ISO method 9696 and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA method 900.0. The evaporation step as required in these methods requires a heat source and electrical power. The additional time needed to perform the evaporation step along with the requirement for a heat source and electrical power are generally undesirable for field applications where time weight volume and power requirements pose logistical problems. The present invention overcomes these problems by providing a water sampling device for use with a radiation probe which utilizes a filter means to separate the solids from the water thereby eliminating the evaporation step. In addition the device and method of the present invention allow larger volumes of water to be sampled in shorter periods of time thus enabling short test cycles producing high concentrations of radioactive material collected onto the filter media if such radioactive material is present in the sample. The device of the present invention can be used with a variety of commercially available radiation probes and is compact light and portable. As such it is well suited for field applications.

The present invention provides a simple and convenient means to separate particulate solids from a water sample prior to measuring radioactivity without the need for a heat source or electrical power. The device and method of the present invention can be used with a variety of commercially available radiation probes and is suitable for field applications. Aspects of the invention may include one or more of the following a base for supporting the device so that it is self standing a filtrate reservoir for holding a water sample after it has passed through a filter media to collect solids within the water sample a filter media support disc for holding the filter media and connecting parts and interchangeable sample reservoir and radiation probe adaptor. The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

One embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in the exploded view of . Device includes a base filtrate reservoir filter media support disc filter media and sample reservoir . Base may include a base stabilization member to prevent device from tipping over when in use with a radiation probe as will be illustrated below in . Base also includes a circular lip for engaging filtrate reservoir in a compression or friction fitting. The terms compression fitting and friction fitting are used interchangeably herein to describe the following type of attachment or mounting means. Circular lip has an inner diameter slightly less than the outer diameter of filtrate reservoir both of which are made of material with some elasticity to allow a degree of flexibility. Accordingly filtrate reservoir fits snuggly into circular lip with the bottom end of filtrate reservoir effectively capped by the circular portion of base . The friction between connecting members which is caused by the force from compression of one of the members or the expansion of another member serves to hold the two parts together.

Filtrate reservoir in the embodiment illustrated is a hollow cylinder for receiving the sample water after it has drained through filter media and filter media support disc . A vacuum port may be provided in filtrate reservoir to aid in the passage of the water sample through filter media . That is by connecting a vacuum source not shown to vacuum port the resulting suction force on filter media support disc and filter media will cause an increase in flow across these elements thus speeding up the sampling process if so desired. Conversely the liquid sample can be eluted through the filtration media via gravitational force or by other means of applying positive and or negative pressure. Positive pressure for example may be required if an ultra filtration media is selected.

Filter media support disc is a circular disc with a disc recess for receiving filter media . Filter media support disc also includes upper rim lower rim See and disc lip for supporting disc when placed on top of filtrate reservoir . The structure of filter media support disc in this embodiment provides a compression fitting between it and sample reservoir on one side and between it and filtrate reservoir on the other side.

Disc recess includes a plurality of apertures or holes which may be round in cross section or any other shape to allow the sample water to pass through filter media support disc while still providing support to filter media so that filter media is held in place and does not fall or drop into filtrate reservoir even when water is flowing through filter media .

Filter media is a made of a suitable filtration material that allows water to pass through but prevents any solids in the water above a certain particulate size from passing through it. That is the filtration material is preferably of a size exclusion type. Size exclusion filtration is required to orient the analyte of interest on the upper surface of the filtration media so as not to have the radioactive component shielded by the filtration media itself. Additionally the material of the filtration media must be hydrophobic and non hydroscopic in nature as the presence of water on the surface of and within the filtration media could shield the alpha and beta radiation emissions from the detection probe. The desired porosity of filter media may be varied in the use of device depending on the nature of the water sample collected. For example in water samples containing ultra and very fine solid particulate matter an ultra and very fine filter material is needed for filter media . One suitable material for use as filter media is sold under the trademark TEFLON and other filter materials are well know in the art to which the invention pertains.

The shape of filter media is such that it fits within disc recess of filter media support disc covering all of the apertures in disc recess such that the water sample must pass through filter media as the water flows from sample reservoir into filtrate reservoir .

Sample reservoir is a substantially hollow cylindrical shape with walls of suitable height and openings on both ends to provide a reservoir or basin for the water sample to be held in contact with filter media so that it may flow through filter media and into filtrate reservoir thus causing particulate solids that were in the water to be deposited on or within filter media . The walls of sample reservoir may be angled outward in the upward direction as shown in for ease of filling with the water sample.

Turning to the embodiment illustrated in the exploded view of is shown in its assembled condition. Base includes base stabilization member and lip . Filter reservoir rests atop base with lip forming a compression fitting with the bottom end of filtrate reservoir .

Filter media support disc is held between sample reservoir and filtrate reservoir by a compression fitting formed between it and sample reservoir on one end and it and filtrate reservoir on the other end. The majority of the top surface of filter media support disc is exposed through the opening of the bottom end of sample reservoir such that filter media not shown can be placed atop filter media support disc covering the apertures within filter media support disc with the filter material. Sample reservoir as illustrated provides ample volume for holding a water sample in contact with filter media not shown so that the water can flow through the filter media and into filtrate reservoir .

Turning to device is shown with radiation probe adapter for use with a conventional radiation probe having a probe handle . The bottom end of radiation probe adaptor is sized to fit with the upper surface of filter media support disc with sample reservoir not shown removed. That is in operation sample reservoir is removed and radiation probed adaptor is put in its place. Alternatively sample reservoir may include features of radiation probe adapter as described below such that the former serves as both a sample reservoir and radiation probe adapter.

Radiation probe adapter may include notch to accommodate probe handle . Protruding rim is provided to hold radiation probe at a set distance above filter media . This prevents physical contact between radiation probe and any solid particulates that may be on the face of filter media as well as between radiation probe and the filter media . By providing a repeatable and consistent separation distance and orientation between radiation probe and the solid particulates collected from the water sample on the face of filter media the measurements taken with radiation probe are more accurate and precise than without this feature of the present invention.

Turning to the embodiment illustrated in the exploded view of is shown in its assembled condition. Radiation probe is held within device by radiation probe adaptor . Notch accommodates probe handle . The bottom of radiation probe adaptor rests atop filter media support disk and is held secure by a compression fitting between radiation probe adaptor and filter media support disk . As illustrated here stabilization member of base is placed so that it is orientated in substantially the same direction as probe handle in order to offset the overturning force or moment created by the weight of probe handle . In a preferred embodiment radiation probe adaptor and filter media support disk may accommodate an interlocking feature as provided by a male female hole and plug. This would allow radiation probe adaptor to sit with only one orientation such that probe handle is oriented in the same direction as stabilization member .

As illustrated and described device is thus self standing and stable when resting on any flat surface even with an overturning force resulting from the weight of a probe handle. As apparent to those with ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains radiation probe adaptor may be made in a variety of shapes and sizes to accommodate different radiation probes. For example the radiation probe may have a surface area larger than the diameter of filtrate reservoir and filter media support disc . In this case the diameter of the upper portion of radiation probe adaptor would be larger than illustrated here. As another example in the situation where the particular radiation probe used with device does not have a handle or the handle is removed and there are no wires or other objects protruding from the side of the probe notch is not necessary. In addition stabilization member is not needed if there is no overturning moment to destabilize the device.

Turning to a larger view of filter media support disc is provided to further describe its features. Filter media support disc includes disc recess having a plurality of apertures lip upper rim and lower rim . Disc recess is sized to accommodate filter media . When filter media is placed in disc recess the top surface of filter media rests at an elevation below the top face of upper rim and the material of filter media covers all of the apertures within disc recess . Lower rim and disc lip form a first compression fitting in this embodiment which is used to connect filter media support disc to filtrate reservoir . Similarly upper rim and disc lip form a second compression fitting in this embodiment which is used to connect filter media support disc to sample reservoir or radiation probe adapter interchangeably and without the need for tools.

Having fully described the structural features and elements of the present invention attention is now turned to a description of its operation. There are many ways in which the present invention may be used as a water sampling device with a radiation probe for measuring the radioactivity of particulate solids found in water samples. The following description is provided by way of one example.

Device with sample reservoir inserted is placed on a work surface which is relatively horizontal flat and stable. Such work surface may be a field portable bench or table or even the hood or bumper of a parked vehicle. Device may also be used in a facility such as a laboratory where it can be placed on a laboratory bench or table. An aliquot of water is sampled and transferred into sample reservoir . This can be done manually or by an automated system of tubing and control valves.

Once the water sample has been added to the sample reservoir gravity will cause the water to drain through filter media and into filtrate reservoir . The solid particulates in the water sample that cannot pass through filter media because of size restriction will deposit on or within filter media . Vacuum port may be provided and utilized if a faster flow rate and shorter sample time are desired or to overcome the filter bubble point pressure. In such case a vacuum source is attached to vacuum port and the corresponding suction force increases the flow rate of water through filter media . Once the water sample has drained out of sample reservoir and through filter media one or more additional water samples may be added to sample reservoir or the sample reservoir may be removed to proceed to the next step.

With sample reservoir removed radiation probe adaptor is placed on top of filter media support disk where it is fits snuggly by way of the compression fitting described above. Radiation probe is then placed inside of radiation probe adaptor where it is held at a set distance and orientation from filter media by protruding rim . The orientation is such that the detection surface of radiation probe is substantially parallel with and directly over filter media thus providing for a consistent optimal application of radiation probe .

After completing the radiation measurement filter media can be encapsulated by placing sample cap over filtration media and securing sample cap to filter media support disc by means of a compression fitting. A second sample cap may be provided to attach to the other side of filter media support disc also by means of a compression fitting thus sealing access that the air would otherwise have to filter media through the apertures within filter media support disc . In this condition the sample is preserved and may be transported or stored as desired.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described it will be understood that additional embodiments and various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the attachment means described in the preferred embodiment are compression fittings but could be accomplished with threaded fittings or other coupling means. The parts of device aside from filter media can be made of a wide variety of impermeable or substantially impermeable materials ranging from plastics and other polymers to metals and ceramics. Filter media may be made of TEFLON or other filter media that are substantially inert hydrophobic and non hydroscopic available in the desired shape and allow water to pass freely while trapping solid particles on the surface of the filtration media. The suction means which may be provided in some embodiments of the present invention may be accomplished using a syringe aspirator or any type of mechanical vacuum pump. A pressurization means which may be provided in some embodiments of the present invention may be accomplished using various commercially available pumps such as a positive displacement or plunger pump. The sample reservoir may be of various shapes and sizes to accommodate the desired volume of sample. Similarly the radiation probe adaptor may be of different shapes and sizes to accommodate different radiation probes. Accordingly these and other embodiments of the invention fall within the scope of the following claims.

