---

title: Pointing device with a display screen for output of a portion of a currently-displayed interface
abstract: Example embodiments relate to pointing devices, methods, and machine-readable storage media. In example embodiments disclosed herein, a pointing device may include a display screen. Example embodiments may receive an image from a computing device that includes a pointer and an area of a currently-displayed interface surrounding the pointer. Example embodiments may then output the received image on the display screen of the pointing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08269796&OS=08269796&RS=08269796
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08269796
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100527
---
In interacting with a personal computing device a user typically uses a combination of a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or trackball. In this manner the user may enter text using the keyboard while interacting with objects outputted on a display device using a cursor controlled by the pointing device.

In some situations a user may desire to operate the computing device at a distance. For example when giving a presentation based on information contained on the computing device the user may need to interact with the computer without being in close proximity to the device. Similarly a user may desire to remotely control the device to output media files such as video or audio. In situations like these it is often difficult for the user to view the cursor in the user interface and as a result it may be difficult for the user to effectively interact with the computing device.

As described above when a user is remotely located from a computing device it may be difficult for the user to effectively interact with the computing device. In particular the inability to see the cursor of the pointing device may make it difficult for the user to select the desired elements in the user interface. Accordingly example embodiments disclosed herein relate to a pointing device with a display screen for outputting a portion of the user interface currently displayed by the computing device.

In particular in some embodiments a pointing device may include a display screen and a communication interface that exchanges data with the computing device. The pointing device may also include a processor and a machine readable storage medium encoded with instructions executable by the processor. The storage medium may include instructions for receiving an image from the computing device via the communication interface. This image may include for example a pointer and an area of a currently displayed interface surrounding the pointer. In addition the storage medium may include instructions for outputting the received image to the display screen. Additional embodiments and applications of such embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the following description.

In the description that follows reference is made to the term machine readable storage medium. As used herein the term machine readable storage medium refers to any electronic magnetic optical or other physical storage device that contains or stores executable instructions or other data e.g. a hard disk drive flash memory etc. .

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic diagram of an example pointing device including a display screen for outputting an area of a currently displayed interface. In the embodiment of pointing device includes processor communication interface machine readable storage medium display screen and buttons .

In the illustrated embodiment pointing device is roughly in the form of a rectangular prism. In this manner pointing device may be held by the user and pointed at an associated computing device in a manner similar to a television remote control. It should be understood however that pointing device of and all other pointing devices described herein may take any form suitable to allow for control by the user. For example the pointing devices may be wired or wireless computer mice or trackballs in any of a number of sizes and shapes. Other suitable pointing devices will be apparent.

Referring again to processor may comprise electrical circuitry that executes logic for managing pointing device . For example processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor a microcontroller or any other hardware device suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions stored in machine readable storage medium . In particular processor may fetch decode and execute instructions to implement the display functionality described herein.

Communication interface may be a hardware device that exchanges data with a corresponding computing device. For example communication interface may be an integrated circuit IC or other chip that includes radio frequency RF functionality for wirelessly communicating with a transceiver coupled to the computing device. As another example communication interface may be a Universal Serial Bus USB interface coupled to a USB host in the computing device. Regardless of the particular implementation communication interface may receive image data from the computing device that includes the pointer and an area of the currently displayed interface surrounding the pointer. Communication interface may also transmit user interaction data to the computing device including for example data describing movement of pointing device and activation of buttons .

Machine readable storage medium may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device that contains or stores executable instructions for receiving processing and displaying image data. As an example machine readable storage medium may be a Read Only Memory ROM chip that encodes instructions that are executable to implement the firmware of pointing device . Depending on the particular implementation machine readable storage medium may be internal or external to the body of pointing device . Processor may execute the instructions encoded on machine readable storage medium to implement the functionality described in detail below.

Machine readable storage medium may include image receiving instructions that receive an image from a computing device via communication interface . This image may include the pointer identifying the current position of the pointing device and an area of the interface surrounding the pointer. The pointer may be any icon image or other indication used to identify the current position of pointing device in a user interface of the computing device. As described below image outputting instructions may then output this image or a processed version of the image to display screen .

The portion of the user interface included in the image received by image receiving instructions may vary depending on the particular implementation. In some embodiments the area of the interface included in the image is a rectangle with proportions equal to those of display screen . For example if the display screen uses an aspect ratio of 4 3 the received image may be 100 pixels by 75 pixels 133 pixels by 100 pixels etc. In such embodiments the image may be resized if needed to match the resolution of display screen without changing the aspect ratio of the image.

Alternatively the number of pixels included in the image may vary depending on a current display resolution used by the computing device in communication with pointing device . In such embodiments the number of pixels included in the image may be set to be a predetermined percentage of the total display space e.g. one percent of the interface . For example if the computing device uses a current resolution of 1 920 pixels by 1 080 pixels the image may use a total of 20 736 pixels 1 of multiplied by 1 080 . Thus if the display screen uses an aspect ratio of 16 9 the image would be 192 pixels by 108 pixels if the display screen uses an aspect ratio of 4 3 the image would be roughly 166 by 125 pixels.

In addition to being a number of different sizes the image received by receiving instructions may also be in a number of possible formats. For example the image may be a file or stream of data encoded using a standard format such as a bitmap BMP image a Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG image or a Portable Network Graphics PNG image. Alternatively the image data may use a proprietary format encoded by the pointing device driver and decoded by receiving instructions or may instead be a stream of raw data to be interpreted by device . Other suitable methods formats and images for transmitting the image from the pointing device driver to communication interface and image receiving instructions will be apparent.

Machine readable storage medium may also include image outputting instructions which may output the image received by receiving instructions to display screen . In particular upon receipt of the image and completion of any processing of the image image receiving instructions may trigger image outputting instructions for output of the image. Image outputting instructions may in turn refresh the display screen to output the received image. In this manner display screen may be updated to contain the area of the user interface proximate to the pointer such that the user may accurately control the pointer even when positioned at a distance from the display of the computing device.

Display screen may be a screen embedded in the body of pointing device for displaying an image received from image outputting instructions . Display screen may be implemented using a Liquid Crystal Display LCD a Light Emitting Diode LED display an electronic ink display or any other display technology suitable for embedding in pointing device . Any of a number of sizes and aspect ratios may be used for screen depending on the size of pointing device . As one example display screen could be a 1 by 1 square. As illustrated in display screen is currently displaying a portion of an interface including the pointer and an OK button.

In addition to the components used for output of the portion of the currently displayed interface pointing device may include a number of other components for interaction with the corresponding computing device. For example pointing device may include a left click button and a right click button which may be depressed by the user to take an action based on the current position of the pointer. As illustrated display screen is located on a top surface of the pointing device adjacent to buttons corresponding to left click button and right click button . Other locations of display screen with respect to buttons will be apparent.

In addition to display screen and buttons pointing device may include a number of other components that are not illustrated in . For example pointing device may include components for determining and communicating movement of pointing device . These components may include a number of accelerometers a light emitting diode LED in combination with a light sensor for optical tracking or a ball in combination with two or more rollers for mechanical tracking of movement. In embodiments in which the computing device does not provide power pointing device may also include a power source such as a battery. Other components included in pointing device will be apparent.

As detailed above in connection with pointing device of pointing device may be a device provided to allow for user interaction with computing device and may be in any of a number of sizes shapes and configurations. As with processor processor may be a semiconductor based microprocessor a microcontroller or any other hardware device suitable for retrieval and execution of instructions stored in machine readable storage medium . As with communication interface communication interface may be a hardware device that exchanges data with communication interface of computing device . Finally as with storage medium of machine readable storage medium may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device that contains or stores executable instructions for receiving processing and displaying image data on display screen . Depending on the particular implementation machine readable storage medium may be internal or external to the body of pointing device .

Machine readable storage medium may include image receiving instructions that receive an image from computing device based on a data exchange between communication interfaces . This image may be a set of pixels including the pointer identifying the current position of pointing device and an area of the interface surrounding the pointer. In some embodiments instructions may receive an updated image each time pointing device triggers an interrupt event in computing device . Alternatively instructions may receive an updated image a predetermined number of times per second. Further details regarding the captured image and the process for obtaining this image are provided below in connection with capturing instructions of display device driver .

Machine readable storage medium may also include image modifying instructions which may process the data received from computing device . In particular instructions may perform a number of operations to prepare the received data for output on display screen .

As one example modifying instructions may crop and or resize the image to match the resolution of display screen . In addition in some embodiments modifying instructions may implement a zoom function based on a current zoom value specified by zoom control . The current zoom value may represent a level of magnification to be applied to the image displayed on display screen .

In embodiments in which a zoom functionality is implemented image modifying instructions may first determine a current zoom level desired by the user. This zoom level may correspond to a current physical position of zoom control or may be a value stored in pointing device representing the zoom level desired by the user. As an example the zoom levels could be a discrete number of predetermined values such as 0.5 1 2 and 4 . Alternatively the zoom levels may be an analog range of values based on the current position of zoom control and in such embodiments may take any value between a minimum and maximum zoom level.

After determining the desired zoom level modifying instructions may size the image received from computing device in accordance with the zoom level. When implementing a zoom level higher than 1 e.g. 2 zoom instructions may first increase the size of the received image e.g. double the size using an image resizing procedure such as a nearest neighbor bilinear or bicubic method. Instructions may then select the predetermined image size from the resized image. In this manner by increasing the image size but selecting a block of the same number of pixels the pointer and the surrounding area appear to be larger.

Conversely when implementing a zoom level lower than 1 e.g. 0.5 zoom instructions may first decrease the size of the image received from computing device according to the zoom level. Instructions may then select a block corresponding to the predetermined image size from the resized image. In this manner by decreasing the image size but selecting a block of the same number of pixels a larger portion of the received image is displayed thereby simulating a zoom out effect.

To give a specific example suppose the image transferred by computing device is 200 pixels by 200 pixels with the pointer centered at the position 100 100 . Further suppose that display screen is 100 pixels by 100 pixels with a 1 zoom corresponding to the 100 100 block in the center of the received image. To implement a 2 zoom modifying instructions would first double the size of the received image to 400 pixels by 400 pixels and then select the 100 100 block centered at the position 200 200 for output on display screen . Alternatively to implement a 0.5 zoom modifying instructions would resize the received image to 100 pixels by 100 pixels and select the entire image as the portion to be outputted on display screen .

Although a particular procedure for performing the zoom function is detailed above other suitable procedures for deriving a zoomed image will be apparent. Furthermore it should be noted that in some embodiments the processing described above in connection with modifying instructions may instead be performed in computing device prior to transmission of the set of pixels to pointing device . For example in some embodiments pointing device may communicate the current value of zoom control to computing device . In response computing device may modify the image to reflect the current zoom setting prior to transmission to pointing device .

Machine readable storage medium may also include image outputting instructions which may output the image derived by modifying instructions . In particular after processing the received image image modifying instructions may trigger image outputting instructions for output of the image. Image outputting instructions may in turn refresh the display screen to output the received image.

As with display screen of display screen may be a screen embedded in the body of pointing device and may be implemented using any of a number of display technologies e.g. LCD LED electronic ink etc. . Left click button and right click button may allow a user to take action based on the current position of the pointer in the user interface.

In addition in the embodiment of pointing device includes a zoom control . In some embodiments zoom control may be a hardware device attached to the body of pointing device such as a dial a slider or one or more buttons. Other suitable hardware devices for control of the zoom level will be apparent. As described above in connection with image modifying instructions the current zoom level specified by the user using zoom control may be utilized to control the level of zoom of the image outputted on display screen .

Computing device may be for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a server a handheld computing device or the like. Computing device may include a processor a communication interface a device driver and a coupled display device .

Processor may be a central processing unit CPU a semiconductor based microprocessor or any other hardware device suitable for retrieval and execution of device driver instructions . In particular processor may fetch decode and execute instructions to implement the image capture compression and transmission functionality described in detail below.

Communication interface may be a hardware device that exchanges data with a corresponding communication interface of pointing device . For example communication interface may be a radio frequency RF device for wirelessly communicating with a transceiver included in pointing device . As another example communication interface may be a USB host in communication with a USB interface in pointing device . Regardless of the particular implementation communication interface may transmit image data that includes the pointer and an area of the currently displayed interface surrounding the pointer. Communication interface may also receive user interaction data from pointing device including for example data describing movement of pointing device activation of buttons and a zoom level specified by zoom control .

Display device driver may include a series of instructions encoded on a machine readable storage medium which may be an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device that contains or stores executable instructions. In particular display device driver may include instructions for capturing an image from a currently displayed interface instructions for compressing the image and instructions for transmitting the image to pointing device via communication interface .

More specifically capturing instructions may capture an image of an interface currently outputted on display device . This image may be a set of pixels including an indication representing a current position of pointing device in the interface. The indication may be for example a cursor an icon or any other graphical cue indicating the location of the pointer within the interface. In some embodiments capturing instructions may capture an image from the interface upon the occurrence of an interrupt event. As an alternative capturing instructions may obtain an image a predetermined number of times per second e.g. 30 times per second .

In obtaining the image to be transmitted to pointing device capturing instructions may first determine a current position of the pointer by for example retrieving X and Y coordinates maintained by device driver . Capturing instructions may then determine a size of the image to be captured from the currently displayed interface. This size may be a fixed number of pixels based on for example a resolution of display screen of pointing device and or an aspect ratio of display screen . In such embodiments the fixed number of pixels may have dimensions that are a multiple of the resolution of display screen e.g. 1 2 4 etc. . Alternatively the size may be determined based on a current display resolution used for the interface e.g. 1 percent of the entire interface . As another example when sufficient bandwidth exists between communication interfaces capturing instructions may capture the entire user interface. Other suitable methods for determining the size of the image to be captured will be apparent.

After determining the position of the pointer and the size of the image to be captured capturing instructions may then capture an image of the determined size that includes the current pointer position. As one example capturing instructions may utilize an Application Programming Interface API function provided by the operating system to capture an image of the screen. In such embodiments capturing instructions may utilize the screen capture function to obtain an image of the entire screen and subsequently crop the image to obtain the desired set of pixels . Alternatively capturing instructions may directly obtain the desired set of pixels by for example accessing a video buffer of a display device included in computing device .

In some embodiments capturing instructions may implement an image zoom based on a software zoom setting specified by a user. For example display device driver may provide a user interface that allows the user to manually control a level of zoom applied to the image outputted on display screen . Alternatively display device driver may obtain the zoom level of a hardware zoom control from pointing device via communication interface . In embodiments in which a zoom level is applied to the image prior to transmission capturing instructions may first identify the current zoom level and then resize the image in accordance with the zoom level. In resizing the image capturing instructions may execute a zoom procedure as described above in connection with modifying instructions .

Compressing instructions may further process the image captured by capturing instructions and more specifically may compress the image. Compressing instructions may receive the captured image from instructions and in response may process the image to reduce the number of bytes required to transmit the image to pointing device . For example compressing instructions may execute a procedure to convert the captured image data to a compressed image format such as a JPEG PNG or other compressed image file.

In some embodiments compressing instructions may execute a simplified compression procedure to quickly reduce the size of the image to be transmitted. For example compressing instructions may process the image in a plurality of subsets e.g. blocks of a fixed number of pixels and for each subset calculate a value representative of all pixels in the subset. This value may be for example an average of the colors included in each of the pixels in the subset. The averaged value may then take the place of all pixels in the subset in the image transmitted to pointing device and outputted on display screen . Other suitable methods for compressing the image prior to transmission to pointing device will be apparent.

Transmitting instructions may obtain the captured image from compressing instructions or from capturing instructions if no compression is performed . Upon receipt of the set of pixels transmitting instructions may utilize communication interface for transmission of the set of pixels to communication interface of pointing device . Pointing device may then output the received set of pixels to display screen based on execution of the instructions described in detail above.

Display device may be a display screen such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD screen or a screen implemented using another display technology. Display device may be internal or external to computing device depending on the configuration of computing device . By outputting a user interface display screen may allow for user interaction with computing device . As described in detail above the image captured compressed and transmitted by device driver may be a portion of the interface currently displayed on display device .

By rotating dial in a clockwise direction toward the symbol on the casing a user may increase the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . Conversely by rotating dial in a counter clockwise direction toward the symbol on the casing the user may decrease the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . Dial may be rotatable in a limited number of rotations in each direction such that a minimum and maximum zoom value may be defined. Suitable methods for resizing the image based on the current zoom level of dial are described in detail above in connection with .

By moving slider in a lateral direction toward the symbol on the casing a user may increase the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . Conversely by moving slider in the opposite direction toward the symbol on the casing the user may decrease the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . The leftmost and rightmost positions of slider may correspond to a maximum and minimum zoom level respectively. Suitable methods for resizing the image based on the current zoom level of slider are described in detail above in connection with .

By depressing plus button a user may increase the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . Conversely by depressing minus button the user may decrease the zoom level applied to the image displayed on display screen . In this manner each time the user depresses one of the buttons pointing device may increment or decrement the current zoom level stored in memory of pointing device . In some embodiments pointing device may define maximum and minimum zoom levels such that the user may only zoom in or out to a limited level. Suitable methods for resizing the image based on the current zoom level specified by buttons are described in detail above in connection with .

Although illustrated as including a different button for zooming in and zooming out in some embodiments pointing device may include a single zoom button. In such embodiments the user may depress the zoom button to continuously cycle through a number of available zoom options. In this manner each time the user depresses the button pointing device may apply the next selectable zoom level.

Method may start in block and proceed to block where computing device may receive an interrupt generated by pointing device . In particular pointing device may be configured to generate an interrupt event in the operating system when the user moves pointing device selects a button changes a zoom level or otherwise interacts with pointing device . Accordingly computing device may determine that it should capture an updated image for display on pointing device . It should be noted that in some embodiments this process may instead be triggered on a regular basis by a pointing device driver e.g. 30 times per second .

After detection of an interrupt or another determination that a new image should be captured method may proceed to block . In block computing device may capture an image of a currently displayed user interface. This image may include a pointing device indication and an area of the interface surrounding the indication. In determining the size of the captured image computing device may consider the resolution and aspect ratio of the display screen of pointing device and or a resolution of the currently displayed interface. Further details for selecting the image size and capturing the image from the currently displayed interface are provided in detail above in connection with capturing instructions of device driver .

After capturing the image from the interface method may proceed to block where computing device may determine whether a software zoom control is enabled. Computing device may make this determination based for example on a display device driver setting. If software zoom is disabled or not implemented method may skip to block described in further detail below. Alternatively if a software zoom control is enabled method may proceed to block .

In block computing device may determine the current zoom setting selected by the user by for example retrieving the current value stored by the display device driver. This zoom setting may be for example a value indicating a percentage e.g. 50 100 200 a level of magnification 0.5 1 2 or another similar value.

After determining the current zoom level method may proceed to block where computing device may size the captured image according to the current zoom setting. In particular when implementing a zoom level higher than 1 computing device may first increase the size of the captured image using an image resizing procedure and may then select the predetermined image size from the resized image. Conversely when implementing a zoom level lower than 1 computing device may first decrease the size of the image received from computing device according to the zoom level. Instructions may then select a block corresponding to the predetermined image size from the resized image. Further details of this particular procedure for creating a zoomed image are provided above in connection with modifying instructions of . Other suitable procedures for generating a zoomed image will be apparent.

Method may then proceed to block where computing device may compress the image to be transmitted to pointing device . In particular computing device may execute a procedure to convert the captured image to a compressed image format e.g. JPEG PNG etc. or may instead execute a simplified compression procedure. Further examples of techniques for compressing the image are provided above in connection with compressing instructions of .

Finally after applying any zoom and compressing the image as necessary method may proceed to block where computing device may transmit the image to pointing device for display on display screen . In particular communication interface of computing device may transmit the image to communication interface of pointing device . Method may then proceed to block where method may stop.

Method may start in block and proceed to block where pointing device may receive a set of data comprising a portion of a user interface currently displayed on a computing device in communication with pointing device . This set of data may correspond to for example a number of pixels included in the user interface and may include a pointing device indication e.g. an icon cursor etc. and an area surrounding the pointing device indication.

After receipt of the set of data method may proceed to block where pointing device may determine whether a hardware zoom control is present and enabled. If a zoom control is both present and enabled method may proceed to block where pointing device may determine the current zoom level specified by the user with the zoom control. The zoom level may represent a magnification percentage e.g. 50 100 200 or a corresponding zoom multiplier e.g. 0.5 1 2 .

After determining the current zoom level method may proceed to block where pointing device may process the received image and size the received set of data into a zoomed image based on the current zoom level. For example when the current zoom level is higher than 1 pointing device may increase the size of the received image by the corresponding percentage e.g. double the size when the zoom level is 200 or 2 . Alternatively when the current zoom level is lower than 1 pointing device may decrease the size of the received image by the corresponding percentage e.g. halve the size when the zoom level is 50 or 0.5 .

Method may then proceed to block where pointing device may select at least a portion of the zoomed image for display. For example pointing device may select a rectangle of a predetermined size that is centered in the middle of the resized image. The size of the selected rectangle may correspond for example to a resolution of display screen . By selecting an image of a fixed size from the resized image pointing device may simulate the effect of zooming in or out on the image to be displayed on display screen .

Additional details and implementations for performing an example zoom procedure are provided in detail above in connection with image modifying instructions of . Furthermore it should be noted that in some embodiments the set of data received in block is a pre zoomed image. In particular as described in detail above in connection with the computing device may instead perform any zoom processing prior to transmission of the set of data to pointing device .

Referring again to block when it is determined that a zoom control is not present or is disabled method may proceed to block where pointing device may derive an image displayable on the screen without performing zoom processing. In particular pointing device may crop and or resize the received image to generate an image that may be outputted to display screen .

After generation of a zoomed image in block or a non zoomed image in block method may proceed to block . In block pointing device may trigger a refresh of display screen using the generated image. Method may then proceed to block where method may stop.

According to the embodiments described in detail above display screen of pointing device is currently displaying a portion of interface including the pointer and an area surrounding the pointer. In particular computing device has transmitted the portion to pointing device and in response to receipt of the portion pointing device has outputted it on display screen . In this manner by looking at screen the user may determine that the pointer is currently positioned over a Next Track control without the need to move closer to computing device .

According to the foregoing various embodiments relate to a pointing device with an embedded display screen for output of a portion of a currently displayed interface. In particular the pointing device may utilize the display screen to output the pointer and an area of the interface surrounding the pointer. By using the pointing device with the embedded screen the user may interact with the interface of the computing device in an effective manner even when positioned at a distance from the computing device.

