---

title: UV illumination for mitigation of cold temperature pyroelectric effects in lithium niobate
abstract: An actively Q-switched laser based on UV illumination mitigates pyroelectric effects in lithium niobate. An exemplary embodiment comprises a pump source; a dichroic mirror having one end optically facing said pump source; a gain medium optically facing another end of said dichroic mirror; a polarizer having one end optically facing another end of said gain medium; a quarter wave plate having one end optically facing another end of said polarizer; and a electro-optic crystal having one end optically facing said quarter wave plate, at least one side of said electro-optic crystal being electrically connected to Q-switch driver to have the crystal function as a Q-switch. A UV illumination source illuminates a side surface of said electrical-optic crystal with UV light. An output mirror receives an output from said Q-switch and produces a laser emission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488635&OS=08488635&RS=08488635
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08488635
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates in general to lasers and more particularly Q switched laser with UV illumination.

Lithium niobate LiNbO is one of the most common electro optic crystals used for active Q switching of lasers and for optical modulators. Lithium Niobate is well known to have a strong pyroelectric effect that causes charges to be built up on its crystal C faces when the crystal temperature changes. These charges impose an electric field across the crystal that can cause a significant reduction in effective Q switch attenuation and the hold off level thereby reducing the maximum energy that can be stored in a laser gain medium for light output from the laser.

The effects of pyroelectric charges in niobate are negligible at room temperatures and above because the crystal conductivity is sufficient to allow the surface charge to be dissipated. At low temperatures however the conductivity is much smaller so that the pyroelectric charges remain causing a large reduction in the Q switch hold off. One technique for mitigating this cold temperature problem has been to place a radioactive Americium near the crystal faces to neutralize the surface charges. However such uses of a radioactive material can be costly and may entail storage and licensing requirements.

An actively Q switched laser based on UV illumination mitigates pyroelectric effects in lithium niobate. An exemplary embodiment comprises a pump source a dichroic mirror having one end optically facing said pump source a gain medium optically facing another end of said dichroic mirror a polarizer having one end optically facing another end of said gain medium a quarter wave plate having one end optically facing another end of said polarizer and a electro optic crystal having one end optically facing another end of said quarter wave plate at least one side of said electro optic crystal being electrically connected to a Q switch driver to have the crystal function as a Q switch. A source of UV illumination illuminates a side surface of said electrical optic crystal with UV light. An output mirror receives an output from said Q switch and produces a laser emission.

For Q switching applications a lithium niobate LiNbO crystal can be used. Further an exemplary embodiment of an actively Q switched laser can utilize a lithium niobate crystal doped with one or more dopant s including e.g. magnesium iron and zirconium. Dopant levels can be on the order of 0 5 molar . Such exemplary addition of dopants to LiNbO3 has been shown to increase photoconductivity which is an important parameter for improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects in lithium niobate.

An exemplary embodiment of an actively Q switched laser as shown in is based on UV illumination for mitigation of pyroelectric effects in lithium niobate. For example an electro optic crystal is based on a LiNbOcrystal e.g. configured to have its optical C axis aligned along a laser light propagation direction in a laser resonator cavity. For improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects said LiNbOcrystal can be doped with one or more dopant s including e.g. magnesium iron and or zirconium. As further shown in a pump source optically faces one end of a laser cavity to produce a laser emission at another end of said laser cavity . Such a laser cavity comprises a dichroic minor having said one end facing the pump source another end of said dichroic minor facing one end of a gain medium . Such a gain medium can be comprised of an Nd YAG rod. Said gain medium has another end optically facing one end of a polarizer another end of said polarizer facing one end of a quarter wave 4 plate . Another end of said quarter wave 4 plate faces one end of said electro optic crystal . At least one side of said electro optic crystal is electrically connected to a Q switch driver to have the crystal function as a Q switch. For example one or more electrode end s leading from said Q switch driver can be deposited on one or more sides of the crystal . The Q switch is disposed to direct its output emission at its output end to one end of an output mirror to produce a laser emission at another end of said output mirror as the laser emission from the laser cavity .

Referring now to said side s of said electro optic crystal electrically connected with a Q switch driver when no voltage is applied through the electrode s to the respective side s the crystal said quarter wave 4 plate and the polarizer present a high propagation loss for the light inside the resonator cavity the laser action is blocked so that high population inversion can be built up in the pumped gain medium corresponding to a large stored energy. When a high voltage is applied to said electrodes deposited on the sides of crystal light propagating through the crystal experiences quarter wave polarization rotation so that it can now propagate without significant toss through the laser resonator cavity. When the loss element switches to such a high transmission state laser action commences quickly releasing the stored energy via stimulated emission. The Q switched output is a relatively short pulse e.g. a 1 25 ns laser emission for such an exemplary Nd YAG laser.

The propagation loss presented by the Q switch the quarter wave plate and the polarizer in which the Q switch is in the off state e.g. no voltage applied by the Q switch driver provides a laser hold off attenuation that determines the maximum gain inversion level and energy storage that can be achieved in the laser without initiation of laser action in the resonator cavity .

As further exemplified in UV illumination on a side surface of said crystal can significantly eliminate the reduction in hold off that occurs in lithium niobate Q switches at cold temperatures. An exemplary UV illumination can be produced from any known UV source including a UV laser a UV LED etc.

Alternatively as shown in another exemplary embodiment uses UV illumination from a plurality of UV sources e.g. shown with two UV sources placed in close proximity of crystal face s of a lithium niobate LiNbO crystal . Likewise for improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects said LiNbOcrystal can be doped with one or more dopant s including e.g. magnesium iron and or zirconium. In one exemplary embodiment two Nichia 365 nm LEDs each having a 1 1 mm emission area were configured as UV sources against a crystal face of a lithium niobate LiNbO crystal as shown in

Looking at we examine an optical aspect of light traces based on an exemplary configuration comprising a polarizer a quarter wave 4 plate a lithium niobate LiNbO crystal and a mirror optically arranged as a basis for a laser cavity. For improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects said LiNbOcrystal can be doped with one or more dopant s including e.g. magnesium iron and or zirconium. Tracing from the left a light source is directed to one end of said polarizer . Said polarizer outputs polarized light from its another end to one end of said quarter wave 4 plate . Said quarter wave 4 plate emits light from its another end to one end of said lithium niobate LiNbO crystal UV illumination is applied to a side of said lithium niobate LiNbO crystal wherein the extinction ratio can be characterized as follows Extinction ratio P P 100 where Pis incident power and Pis residual power. Another end of said lithium niobate LiNbO crystal emits light which is reflected back from a mirror to said another end of said crystal wherein said UV illumination can result in dissipation of surface charges caused by the pyroelectric effect of the crystal and makes it possible to maintain a large extinction ratio or hold off at low temperatures.

Tracing further through the reflected path shown in said reflected light traverses in a return path through said crystal and is emitted out of said one end of said crystal . Said return light from said one end of said crystal is passed through said quarter wave 4 late and enters said another end of said polarizer wherein a residual power Pis returned from said one end of said polarizer and a rejected light power is returned from a side of said polarizer.

As before a UV source can be placed in a close proximity UV illuminate a side surface of said crystal to eliminate the reduction in hold off that occurs in lithium niobate Q switches at cold temperatures. UV illumination as exemplified in can be produced from any known UV source including a UV laser a UV LED etc. It is preferable to flood illuminate the crystal so that the entire volume of the crystals is illuminated by the UV light.

Alternatively as shown in an exemplary embodiment uses a plurality of UV sources e.g. shown with two UV sources . Likewise for improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects said LiNbOcrystal can be doped with one or more dopant s including e.g. magnesium iron and or zirconium. In one exemplary embodiment two cost commercially available 365 nm LED s e.g. Nichia 365 nm LED having a 1 1 mm emission area were configured as UV sources against a crystal face of a lithium niobate crystal as shown in

Exemplary extinction vs. temperature measurements with no illumination are shown in . As shown there is a line graph of extinction ratio vs. crystal temperature C. which is overlaid with a graph of relative humidity vs. crystal temperature C. data points. Measurements as exemplified for extinction and humidity show that with no UV illumination the extinction can decrease from more than 150 22 dB at room temperatures to less than 10 10 dB at about 5 C. or below. This decrease in extinction is caused by build up of pyroelectric charges on the faces of the crystal that occurs when the crystal temperature changes and the crystal conductivity is insufficient to dissipate said charges. While above 5 C. the inherent electrical conductivity in the crystal appears to be sufficient to dissipate the pyroelectric charges it is too low to do so below that temperature.

In contrast exemplary extinction vs. temperature measurements with UV illumination as variously exemplified are shown in . As shown there is a line graph of extinction ratio vs. crystal temperature C. which is overlaid with a graph of relative humidity vs. crystal temperature C. data points. Measurements as exemplified for 500 mA current put through UV LEDs demonstrate improved extinction for the characterized temperature and humidity measurements. With UV illumination an extinction of above 100 20 dB can be maintained through the entire temperature range including negative temperature ranges down to 35 C. as shown.

Actively Q switched laser using a doped lithium niobate crystal as variously disclosed can yield significantly improved mitigation of pyroelectric effects. In For example in the absence of UV illumination a pyroelectric induced loss of hold off was measured for a lithium niobate crystal doped with magnesium. Turning on the UV returned the sample to a state of high extinction at a particular rate i.e. the decay rate for the pyroelectric charges . A comparison of such a Mg doped sample to pure LiNbOshowed a 20 increase in the rate of decay of pyroelectric charges in the presence of UV. Accordingly actively Q switched lasers as variously exemplified can utilize a doped LiNbOcrystal to better achieve a significantly improved reduction in requisite fluence for UV light.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

