---

title: Behavioral baseline scoring and risk scoring
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems, apparatus, methods and computer program products for integrated risk management. More specifically, embodiments of the present invention provides for determining one or more activity baseline scores, each score associated with one or more activities and based at least in part on financial institution data from multiple financial institutions. The activity baseline score defines a normal risk or baseline activity for a customer, a customer segment or customer population. Further, the invention provides for monitoring at least the financial institution data to determine deviations from the activity baseline score(s) and generating and initiating communication of risk score alerts and/or activity baseline deviation alerts based on predetermined activity baseline deviations. Additional embodiments provide for determining a risk score based on risk patterns associated with financial institution data and, in some embodiments, non-financial institution data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504456&OS=08504456&RS=08504456
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08504456
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 265 683 entitled Integrated Fraud and Customer Data Network filed Dec. 1 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for risk assessment and management and more particularly managing customers or segments of customers risk by determining one or more activity baseline scores and or determining one or more risk scores.

Risk may be defined in a business environment as an event situation or condition that may occur and if it occurs will impact the ability of a business to achieve its desired objectives. Risk management involves 1 defining those events situations or conditions and the potential impact to the business customers and the like 2 the ability to detect those defined events when they occur 3 when detected executing a pre defined set of actions to minimize negative impacts based upon the level of threat and customer impact of mitigation alternatives e.g. risk mitigation prevention and the like and 4 when unable to prevent a risk event from negatively impacting executing a set of actions to recover all or part of the loss. In some cases recovery includes supporting the legal process in criminal prosecution and civil actions.

In the financial world risk management is necessary in various aspects of the business. Financial institutions manage various forms of risk. One such risk is credit risk which is a risk related to the inability of a customer client or other party to meet its repayment or delivery obligations under previously agreed upon terms and conditions. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an advance commitment or investment of funds. Another financial risk is market risk the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as market movements or interest rates. Additional forms of risk are financial unlawful acts including fraud. Fraud involves the use of another person s or company s identity or financial accounts without their permission for the purpose of financial gain. Examples of fraud include identity theft mass compromises phishing account takeover counterfeit debit or credit cards etc.

Financial institution fraud otherwise referred to as bank fraud is a term used to describe the use of fraudulent means to obtain money assets or other property owned or held by a financial institution and or the financial institution s customers. While the specific elements of a particular banking fraud law vary between jurisdictions the term bank fraud applies to actions that employ a scheme or artifice. For this reason bank fraud is sometimes considered a white collar crime. Examples of bank fraud include but are not limited to check kiting money laundering payment credit card fraud and ancillary frauds such as identification theft phishing and Internet fraud and the like.

In addition to bank fraud other financial institution business activity may rise to the level of suspicious activity that may be associated with other unlawful activities. In this regard the suspicious activity if identified may be instrumental in identifying perpetrators the location of perpetrators or other information pertinent to unlawful activity such as telephone numbers Internet Protocol IP addresses and the like. These suspicious activities may include but are not limited to bank transactions such as deposits withdrawals loan transactions and the like credit card transactions online banking activity such as compromised online banking IDs and the like electronic commerce activity call center activity and the like. Additionally suspicious activity may be determined from data related to computer security violators i.e. hackers fraudulent telephone calls and entities associated with divisive computer programs e.g. viruses trojans malware and the like and the like.

In many instances financial institutions have difficulty identifying ongoing bank fraud or other nefarious activities until the fraud has escalated to a level that has serious negative financial impact. Further by the time a defrauded financial institution discovers the fraudulent activity the perpetrator has oftentimes moved on to another financial institution. In some instances in addition to moving on to a different financial institution the perpetrator moves on to a different scheme using a different financial product. For example if a particular perpetrator commits checking fraud against a savings bank then the savings bank upon discovering the fraud will likely report the checking fraud to an organization that collects data on checking fraud. However if the same perpetrator later attempts to commit credit card fraud against a credit card institution the credit card institution will be unaware of the perpetrator s previous act of checking fraud.

Risk assessments in the credit realm are undertaken to determine if a customer or a potential customer is credit worthy i.e. if credit should be extended or curtailed. Currently such risk or credit assessments are conducted by credit bureaus. However credit bureaus are limited in the information that they have access to in making such assessments. Specifically credit bureau information is limited to credit related information such as extended credit lines payment history and the like. Absent from the credit bureau determination is other meaningful financial information such as transactional information that assesses a customer s activities for example checking transactions credit debit card transactions Automated Teller Machine ATM deposits withdrawals cash advances and the like. Also absent from the credit bureau determination are information regarding the assets the customer has such as deposit and investment account balances and the like. In addition to assessing risk when credit is issued a need exists to assess risks throughout the entire credit lifecycle including but not necessarily limited to credit distribution repayment of credit and the like.

Therefore from a credit risk assessment perspective a need exists to develop a system that is not limited to assessing credit worthiness based solely on credit information and in some instances additional account information. The desired system should provide for assessing a customer s activity in terms of their transaction data across multiple financial institutions and multiple products within the financial institutions as well as non financial institution information in order to obtain a comprehensive picture of a customer s transaction history as well as historical activities in order to accurately assess the customer s current activities. From a fraud risk perspective a need exists to monitor and otherwise identify individuals or other entities that are likely to commit fraud across multiple financial products across multiple channels and across multiple financial institutions as well as to identify when customers are being victimized by dishonest individuals.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for risk management. Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide for determining one or more customer or customer segment activity baseline scores each score associated with one or more customer or customer segment activities and based at least in part on financial institution data from multiple financial institutions. The activity baseline score defines a normal activity or baseline activity for the customer or customer segment. Further the invention provides for monitoring at least the financial institution data to determine deviations from the activity baseline score s and generating and initiating communication of risk alerts based on predetermined activity baseline deviations. In other embodiments of the invention customer or customer segment risk scores are determined that are associated with one or more risk patterns based on transaction data and or asset and liability data such as investment and loan data respectively.

An apparatus for risk management defines embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus further includes an activity baseline routine stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The activity baseline routine is configured to determine a customer activity baseline score associated with one or more customer activities and based on financial institution data received from a plurality of financial institutions. The term score may mean a quantifiable score or a model that determines baseline activities.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity baseline routine is further configured to determine a customer segment activity baseline score associated with one or more segment activities. A customer segment is defined as a plurality of customers having at least one common activity or trait. In further related embodiments of the apparatus the activity baseline routine is further configured to determine a customer population activity baseline score associated with one or more population activities. The customer population is defined as a totality of customers or clients. In still other specific embodiments the activity baseline routine is further configured to determine a counter party activity baseline score associated with one or more counter party activities. A counter party is defined as other persons or entities excluding the customer client involved in the transaction or interaction with one or more customers or clients.

In still further specific embodiments the apparatus includes an activity baseline deviation routine stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to monitor for deviations from the customer activity baseline score. In such embodiments the activity baseline deviation routine is further configured to monitor for positive and negative deviations from the customer activity baseline score. In further such embodiments the activity baseline deviation routine is configured to monitor for the deviations by analysis of data received in a risk database while in additional embodiments the activity baseline deviation routine may be configured to monitor for the deviations by querying at least one of the plurality of financial institutions and or one or more non financial institutions. In other embodiments of the apparatus the activity baseline deviation routine is configured to monitor for deviations by querying one or more non financial institutions separately or in combination with querying financial institutions.

In other specific embodiments the apparatus may include a risk alert routine stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to generate and initiate communication of an activity baseline deviation alert based on determination of a deviation from the customer activity baseline score. Further the risk alert routine may be configured to generate and initiate the communication of a risk score alert. In such embodiments the activity baseline deviation alert routine may be further configured to communicate the activity baseline deviation alert and or risk score alert to predetermined entities based on a predetermined level of deviation and or a predetermined type of deviation.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the activity baseline routine is further configured to determine the customer activity baseline score based on non financial institution data received from one or more non financial institution entities such as but not limited to merchants retailers utilities such as Telcos or ISPs suppliers and the like.

In still further specific embodiments the activity baseline routine is further configured to determine a plurality of customer activity baseline scores wherein each customer activity baseline score is associated with different one or more customer activities. As such each customer may have multiple activity baseline scores such that each score is associated with one or more different activities such as purchasing activity deposit activity investment activity interaction activity or the like.

In another specific embodiment the apparatus includes a third party query routine stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive third party activity baseline deviation queries. Third party activity baseline queries determine whether a customer activity or event is a deviation from the activity baseline score and communicate a query response to the third party. In a further embodiment the apparatus includes a customer identifying routine stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to positively identify the customer from the financial institution data prior to determining the activity baseline score.

A method for risk management provides for additional embodiments of the invention. The method includes determining via a computing device processor a customer activity baseline score associated with one or more customer activities and based on financial institution data received from a plurality of financial institution and in some embodiments non financial institution data received from one or more non financial institution entities. The method additional includes monitoring via a computing device processor the financial institution data for a deviation from the customer activity baseline score and initiating via a computing device processor a risk management action based on determination of one or more deviations from the customer activity baseline score.

In specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor a customer segment activity baseline score associated with one or more segment activities. A customer segment is defined as a plurality of customers having at least one common activity or trait. In such embodiments monitoring further includes monitoring via the computing device processor the financial institution data for a deviation from the customer segment activity baseline score and initiating further includes initiating via the computing device processor a risk management action based on determination of one or more deviations from the customer segment activity baseline score.

In further specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via a computing device processor a customer population activity baseline score associated with one or more segment activities. The customer population is defined as the totality of customers and or the totality of clients. In such embodiments monitoring further includes monitoring via a computing device processor the financial institution data for a deviation from the customer population activity baseline score and initiating further includes via a computing device processor a risk management action based on determination of one or more deviations from the customer population activity baseline score.

In still further specific embodiments of the method determining includes determining via a computing device processor a counter party activity baseline score associated with one or more counter party activities. A counter party is defined as other persons or entities excluding the customer involved in a transaction or interaction with the customer or client. In such embodiments monitoring further includes via a computing device processor the financial institution data for a deviation from the counter party activity baseline score and initiating further includes initiating via a computing device processor a risk management action based on determination of one or more deviations from the counter party activity baseline score.

In still further specific embodiments of the method monitoring further includes monitoring for positive and negative deviations from the customer activity baseline score. In still further specific embodiments monitoring further includes analyzing data received in a risk database to determine the deviation from the customer activity baseline score. In still further embodiments of the method monitoring further includes querying at least one of the plurality of financial institutions and or non financial institution entities to determine the deviation from the customer activity baseline score.

In still further specific embodiments of the method initiating further includes generating and initiating communication via computing device processor of an activity baseline deviation alert based on determination of a deviation from the customer activity baseline score. In further embodiments of the method initiating further includes generating and initiating communication via a computing device processor of a risk score alert. In such embodiments the activity baseline deviation alert may be communicated to predetermined entities based on a predetermined level of deviation and or may be communicated to predetermined entities based on one or more of a predetermined type of deviation.

In other specific embodiments the method includes receiving third party activity baseline deviation queries from a third party and determining whether a customer activity or event associated with the query is a deviation from the activity baseline score and communicating a query response to the third party. While in still further embodiments the method includes identifying a customer from the financial institution data prior to determining the customer s customer activity baseline score.

A computer program product that includes computer readable medium defines further embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to determine a customer activity baseline score associated with one or more customer activities and based on financial institution data received from a plurality of financial institution. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to monitor the financial institution data for a deviation from the customer activity baseline score. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to initiate a risk management action based on determination of one or more deviations from the customer activity baseline score.

Another apparatus for risk assessment defines further embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus further includes a risk score routine stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The risk score routine is configured to determine a customer risk score associated with one or more risk types such as credit risk fraud and the like and based on known existing or emerging risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of customer transaction data or customer asset data received from one or more financial institutions.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the risk score routine is configured to determine a customer segment risk score associated with one or more risk types such as credit risk fraud and the like and based on known existing or emerging risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of customer segment transaction data or customer segment asset data. A customer segment is defined as a plurality of customers having at least one common activity or trait. In other related embodiments of the apparatus the risk score routine is further configured to determine a counter party risk score associated with one or more risk types and based on known existing and or new emerging risk patterns associated with financial institution data including counter party transaction data. A counter party is defined as other persons and or entities excluding the customer client involved in a transaction or interaction with one or more customers or clients.

In further specific embodiments of the apparatus the risk score routine is further configured to determine customer risk scores associated with one or more risk types based on known existing and or new emerging risk patterns associated with at least one of negative file data customer data customer network data or non financial institution data.

Another method for risk management provides for further embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving from one or more financial institutions one or more risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of customer transaction data or customer asset data. The method further includes determining via a computing device processor a customer risk score associated with one or more risk types based on the one or more risk patterns within a customer s profile.

In specific embodiments of the method receiving further includes receiving from one or more financial institutions one or more risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of customer segment transaction data or customer segment asset data and determining further includes determining via the computing device processor a customer segment risk score associated with one or more risk types and based on the one or more risk patterns. A customer segment is defined as a plurality of customers having at least one common activity or trait. In further embodiments of the method receiving further includes receiving from one or more financial institutions one or more risk patterns associated with financial institution data including counter party transaction data and determining further includes determining via the computing device processor a counter party risk score associated with one or more risk types and based on the one or more risk patterns. A counter party is defined as other persons and or entities excluding the customer involved in a transaction or interaction with the customer or client.

In further specific embodiments of the method receiving further includes receiving from one or more financial institutions the one or more risk patterns associated with at least one of negative file data customer data or customer network data. In still further embodiments the method includes receiving from one or more non financial institution entities risk patterns associated with non financial institution data and determining further includes determining via the computing device processor the customer risk score associated with one or more risk types based on the plurality of risk patterns associated with financial institution data and the plurality of risk patterns associated with non financial institution data.

Another computer program product including a computer readable medium defines further embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive one or more risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of customer transaction data or customer asset data and a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine a customer risk score associated with one or more customer activities based on the one or more risk patterns.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for assessing risk based on determination of one or more activity baseline scores for a customer or a segment of customers each score associated with one or more customer activities or segment of customer activities. Additional embodiments provide for monitoring for deviations from the activity baseline score and communicating alerts based on the deviations. As such the present invention provides determining positive and negative deviations from normal risk levels across multiple different customer activities such as customer characteristics traits or the like. In additional embodiments systems methods and computer programs are provided for determining a risk score for a customer segment or counter party based on risk patterns associated with financial institution data and in some embodiments non financial institution data transactional data and asset data

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In general embodiments of the present invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for collecting customers financial data from multiple financial institutions from multiple different communication channels and across multiple financial products services within the financial institutions. The collected data includes transactional level data such as checking transactions ATM transactions and credit debit card transactions that allow for determination of a customer s transactional activities. Additionally the financial institution data includes account data such as balances and the like and customer data such as personal data demographics data and the like. In addition customer related data may be collected from non financial institutions such as retailers online and brick mortar government agencies Internet Service Providers ISPs telephone companies Telcos health care industry entities and the like. The non financial information may provide for additional transactional information such as the type of items purchased and the like activity data such as purchasing or browsing activities and customer data.

For the purposes of this invention a financial institution is defined as any organization in the business of moving investing or lending money dealing in financial instruments or providing financial services. This includes commercial banks thrifts federal and state savings banks savings and loan associations credit unions investment companies insurance companies and the like. A customer is defined as an individual or entity having an account or relationship with entities implementing the risk management system and or an individual or entity having an account or relationship with a financial institution or a non financial institution supplying data to the entity implementing the risk management system of the present invention. A counterparty is defined as other individuals or entities excluding the customer involved in a transaction. A transaction can be monetary in nature e.g. a purchase via a credit card depositing a check in an account a stock trade or the like or non monetary in nature e.g. a telephone call an encounter with a financial institution or non financial institution associate representative an identity authentication process such as a biometric identity authentication process recorded use of a utility such as electricity and the like .

The collected customer data is captured in a comprehensive centralized risk database that allows for analytics and or logic to be performed on the data for the purpose of leveraging the collected data to determine the customer s activities and or the customer s likely activities to thereby reduce risk.

In addition according to specific embodiments the comprehensive centralized risk database includes negative activity data that identifies the individuals or entities including their demographics transactions products accounts and the like involved in fraud and other risky activities that can lead to financial loss. For fraud examples of negative activity data elements include but are not limited to the names of fraud perpetrators information associated with the perpetrators e.g. aliases addresses telephone numbers IP addresses and the like information related to fraudulent and other activity across multiple industry products services identification of activities at the account and transaction level across both industry related activities and non industry related activities and the like. Thus the negative activity data is received from financial institutions and in some embodiments of the invention from non financial institutions.

Further embodiments of the invention leverage the collected data and the negative activity database for use in analytical analysis that provides a holistic view of each customer s financial activity in order to manage and reduce risk.

In specific embodiments of the invention the collected data is used to determine for customers customer segments counterparties etc. an activity baseline score that provides a holistic assessment of the customer s customer segment s counterparty s baseline or normal financial activity for example how and where a customer customer segment or counterparty normally transacts channels used transaction amounts average deposits maintained and the like. Once an activity baseline score has been determined the score s may be communicated to designated parties. In addition once an activity baseline score has been determined continuous monitoring of the customer s customer segment s counterparty s collected data provides for determination of deviations from the baseline. Deviations from the baseline can be both positive and negative deviations negative deviations indicating potentially risk inducing activity and positive deviations indicating potentially risk reducing activities. In other embodiments the activity baseline score may indicate that the customer customer segment counterparty exhibits risky activity at their normal level posing a constant or consistent risk such as a credit risk fraud risk or the like even absent a deviation. In such instances notifications and or alerts may be communicated to designated parties based on abnormal deviations from the population baseline.

Embodiments of the present invention provide the collected data as well as the activity baseline and risk scores to financial institutions and or non financial institutions as a risk assessment tool that can be used alone or as an input into their own risk management systems. Examples where financial and non financial institutions may use the collected data or the baseline or risk scores include but are not limited to determining whether to authenticate a transaction involving a particular account or customer determining whether to issue credit to a particular customer determining whether to open an account and or determining whether to conduct or expand business with a customer.

Additional embodiments of the invention provide for determining risk patterns and in particular new types of fraud or other new types of risk using the financial institution data the non financial institution data the claims data deviations from customer baselines and the negative file e.g. risk activity and interactions database to identify activities and patterns that are associated with loss due to risk. In related embodiments the occurrences of risk patterns are monitored to provide for a health of industry risk indicator such as a risk health score or the like which indicates how well an entity such as a company an industry or a segment of the industry is managing risk.

In addition embodiments of the present invention provide for determining a risk score for customers customer segments customer populations counterparties and the like that is associated with one or more risk types and is based on risk patterns and the combination s severity and frequency of risk patterns in a customer customer segment population or counterparty s activities transactions and networks as identified by using financial institution transactional data claims data and asset and liability data. In other embodiments the risk score determination may take into account non financial institution data negative file data and the customer s customer segment s counterparty s network for any known high risk indicators. The risk score serves to predict the likelihood that doing business with a customer segment population or counterparty will result in loss due to risk.

Other embodiments of the invention provide for suspicious activity monitoring that leverages the use of the customer and transactional data across multiple financial institutions multiple products services within the financial institution and multiple financial institution channels. As such the suspicious activity monitoring of the present invention includes account data such as account opening and closing data asset data such as deposits and security investments liability data such as credit outstanding payment status credit limits and the like biometric information and other activity indicators to detect identity compromise.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide the collected data to data analytics providers such as third party data analytics providers so that the data analytics providers can use the collected data when constructing models that model customers activity and when developing risk prevention and risk mitigation systems. The third party data analytics providers may develop and or operate the activity baseline scoring risk scoring risk pattern and suspicious activity analytic models services. It should be appreciated that a customer can be any individual or business or non business entity.

Also for example embodiments of the present invention authenticate whether an individual is who they say they are. As embodiments of the present invention gather financial transactions demographic retailer computing device identification Telco biometric data in a single location embodiments can provide for executing routines that authenticate an individual s identity whether in person or via phone or online mobile. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention provide a service whereby subscribers can use the service to authenticate individuals identities. The service relies on knowing the customer s activities and other identifying characteristics about the customer based on information provided by financial institutions and non financial institutions in combination with information provided by the entity implementing the risk management system such as customer identifying information e.g. social security number taxpayer identification number Global Positioning System GPS biometrics and the like and or customer demographic information.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a system for aggregating and integrating risk related data in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The system includes a comprehensive centralized risk database which is configured to collect or otherwise receive data across multiple financial products and multiple channels from multiple financial institutions for the purpose of managing risk related to credit fraud and the like in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system includes a risk evaluating module that is configured to monitor or otherwise provide risk analysis on transaction data or other data received from various data repositories or databases associated with financial institutions third party data aggregators and or non financial institutions. The risk evaluating module may be implemented by the risk management entity such as a financial institution or a data aggregator in alternate embodiments the risk evaluating module may be implemented by one or more third party entities i.e. procured risk modeling .

The data in the risk database may be communicated from and to financial institutions third party data aggregators and or non financial institutions via integrated risk and customer data network . In addition financial institutions third party data aggregators and or non financial institutions may access integrated risk and customer data network to implement the functionality of risk evaluating module .

According to the illustrated embodiment the centralized risk database stores financial institution data . In additional embodiments the centralized risk database stores non financial institution data . When evaluating customer risk and or validating customer risk the risk evaluating module receives and analyzes any and or all financial institution data and non financial institution data . The data and will now be discussed in more detail.

According to some embodiments customers personal and financial data is provided to the system by financial institutions such as banks credit card companies security investment companies and the like that hold a customer s checking credit card and security investment accounts and that have established financial relationships with the individual customers. It should be noted that unlike credit bureaus which limit their inventory to liabilities the risk database and in particular financial institution data of the present invention includes customer assets as well as liabilities. The data received from multiple financial institutions is aggregated and stored as financial institution data which is in electronic communication with the risk evaluating module .

It should be noted that the various categories of data shown and described in relation to financial institution data and non financial institution data may provide for overlap. For example activity transaction data may include product data or channel data or the like.

The financial institution data may include but is not limited to activity transaction data . According to some embodiments activity transaction data includes data related to financial institution transactions both inflow transactions e.g. deposits and outflow transactions e.g. withdrawals such as savings checking account transactions Automated Clearing House ACH transactions debit card transactions credit card transactions mortgage loan transactions other loan transactions such as home equity loan transactions investment transactions e.g. sale or purchase of an investment vehicle and the like.

The activity transaction data also includes according to some embodiments credit card debit card transaction data that includes data related to credit card or debit card purchases and payments including date time of purchases and store names and locations of where the purchases took place. In some embodiments of the invention transaction data includes pre purchase authorization requests that may be processed in advance of a payment transaction for certain types of purchases such as but not limited to hotel and pay at the pump gas debit card and credit card transactions.

Additionally the activity transaction data includes for example online banking data that includes transaction data related to any online service including but not limited to bill pay transactions electronic online security trades mobile transactions and the like. The online banking data may additionally include indications as to how often and when an online account is accessed indications of erroneous attempts at accessing an online account indications of simultaneous duplicate requests to access an online account and any other means of compromising the online banking account.

Activity data may include any other data captured by the financial institution related to a customer activity. For example activity data may be associated with a financial institution interaction that may not have risen to the transaction level such as initiating but not completing an online transaction an e commerce transaction an ATM transaction or a call center transaction or the like. In addition activity data may include statistical data surrounding transactions. For example the frequency and times customers make calls to call centers ATM transactions e commerce transactions online transactions and the like. For the purposes of this invention transaction data is defined to include activity data.

In addition activity transaction data includes e commerce data that includes transaction data related to purchases of products or services made electronically such as via a financial institution website or the like.

The financial institution data may also include product data that indicates the financial institution product associated with the customer activity and or customer transaction. Financial institution products may include but are not limited to a checking account a savings account a debit card account a credit card account an investment product account or the like. As previously noted part or all of the product data may be included in the activity transaction data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the product data .

The financial institution data may also include account data that indicates the customer s financial institution account associated with the customer s activity transaction. Financial institution accounts may include but are not limited to checking accounts savings accounts credit card accounts debit card accounts credit accounts loan accounts investment accounts and the like. Account data may additionally include account status data such as open new closed suspended balances unavailable funds account gone to loss freezes investment account balances loan credit outstanding credit limits and the like.

As previously noted part or all of the account data may be included in the activity transaction data and or product data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the account data .

In addition the financial institution data may also include channel data that indicates the source of the customer activity transaction. Financial institution channels may include but are not limited to the financial institution retail outlet electronically e.g. direct deposit or bill pay online mobile or via a call center or that a transaction occurred at a retail location online or by phone. As previously noted part or all of the channel data may be included in the activity transaction data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the channel data . Additionally the channel data may include call center data that may include transaction data from a plurality of call centers across a plurality of financial institutions. Also the channel data may include ATM data that includes transaction data from a plurality of ATMs across a plurality of financial institutions. The ATM data may include the frequency and times customers use ATMs as well as the nature of the ATM transaction.

Moreover the financial institution data may include asset and liability data . The asset data may include but is not limited to deposit and investment status information investment and deposit balances investment values equity value of real estate indications of liquidity e.g. CD maturity dates and the like. The liability data may include credit outstanding credit limits payment status data payoff dates and the like.

In addition the financial institution data may include customer data that indicates personal data demographics data and any other customer data associated with accounts or products. Customer data may additionally include scores derived from the data in the risk database such as activity baseline and risk scores and the like. It may also include any risk indicators from data collected in the account data or negative file data regarding a customer or their related information e.g. number of account gone to loss events over a time period bad address and the like . As previously noted part or all of the customer data may be included in the activity transaction data account data and or asset and liability data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the customer data .

Further according to specific embodiments the financial institution data may include negative file data which includes identifying data related to historical known risk activities. In specific embodiments the financial institution negative file data may be financial industry wide negative file data or the like. Thus the negative file data may be received from multiple financial institutions or from third party data aggregators . It should be noted that in specific embodiments negative file data may be received from entities that are not otherwise contributors to the risk database . Additionally negative file data includes but is not limited to fraudulent or other risk activity related to multiple products and or services and multiple channels for delivering the products services.

The negative file data provides for multiple financial institutions and in some specific embodiments of the invention all financial institutions and in some embodiments non financial institutions to access the negative file data for purposes of determining historical risk activities and information related to the activities. In some embodiments of the invention the negative file is used to determine the accuracy of information provided to the entity by a customer. The negative file data may subsequently be used to determine risk patterns monitor suspicious activity and or other risk related activities. The negative file data may include but is not limited to the name s of the high risk individuals and entities addresses telephone numbers social security numbers IP addresses device identifiers prints such as Subscriber Identity Module SIM number or the like biometric data such as fingerprint data voice data or the like associated with the perpetrators and the like. The negative file may also indicate if these data elements belong or are associated with the perpetrator s or have been illegitimately used by the perpetrator s . Additionally negative file data may include suspicious account data otherwise referred to as compromised account data which includes counterfeited accounts data related to computer security violators i.e. hackers or the like. Additionally according to some embodiments the suspicious account data includes data related to fraudulent telephone calls and or a counter fraud intelligence platform that provides information related to viruses trojans malware and the like.

The negative file data may in specific embodiments include mined data obtained from financial institutions that is used to identify suspicious activity or items such as accounts applications or the like linked to elements within the negative file data . Once the linked items have been identified the financial institutions or non financial institutions may be electronically notified or otherwise alerted. For example if an existing customer s phone number has been used in a fraud scam the financial institutions that have the customer and phone number on record in the risk database would receive an alert that the phone number had been used fraudulently.

The financial institution data may additionally include counterparty data . A counterparty is defined herein as the parties involved in a transaction with the customer. Counterparty data may include but is not limited to data related to customer transactions that is specific to the counterparty and is not typically reported to the financial institution such as items services provided in the transaction and the like. Additionally counterparty data includes identifying characteristics of the counterparties such as name location merchant number parent company and the like. In some embodiments this file contains the list of payment processors and the merchants they service. Additionally in some embodiments the counterparty data is augmented with data regarding the counterparty that can be obtained from the customer data and or as well as claims data and or . In other instances the customer data or the claims data may be augmented with data regarding the counterparty from the counterparty data . Additionally counterparty data may include overall statistics associated with the counterparty that are relevant to risk determination.

The financial institution data may also include claims data that includes fraud and non fraud claims made by the customer or the counterparty. The claims data is across multiple financial institution products multiple financial institution channels and multiple different financial institutions. The claims data may be implemented in conjunction with activity transaction data for risk detection such as mass compromises merchant customers whose profitability is compromised by high claim rates or the like.

According to some embodiments third party data aggregators may provide data to the risk database . Third party data aggregators are organizations that collect data from multiple institutions both financial institutions and non financial institutions and then organize and resell the collected data. The data aggregator data may in some embodiments be used to supplement data provided by financial institutions as a means of further understanding the customer and the customer s activities. The data provided by third party data aggregators may according to specific embodiments be collected tagged or otherwise identified within the risk database based on the data aggregator source and stored with associated customer data associated account data and or in one or more distinct data aggregator files. Data aggregators are often used as an efficient means of collecting data. In other embodiments of the invention data aggregators may be used for the value added insights or analytics provided. This modeled data can be used in addition to data collected by financial institutions and non financial institutions e.g. credit bureau data including FICO scores commercial segmentation scores or to fill gaps possibly caused by lack of participation by one or more financial or non financial institutions e.g. customer segmentation and marketing data on investible assets .

According to some embodiments the third party data aggregators are Consumer Reporting Agencies CRAs otherwise referred to as credit reporting agencies or the like. Typically CRAs collect personal and liability information about individual consumers generate credit reports to indicate the creditworthiness of individual consumers and offer these credit reports to prospective creditors. More specifically CRAs collect personal and financial information about individual consumers from a variety of sources called data furnishers. These data furnishers are typically institutions that have had financial relationships with individual consumers. For example data furnishers may be creditors lenders utility companies debt collection agencies government agencies and courts. Data furnishers report data regarding individual consumers to CRAs and based on the received data CRAs generate a credit report for each individual consumer. A typical credit report contains detailed information about an individual consumer s credit history including credit accounts and loans and recent inquiries. These credit reports also contain a credit score which is a measure of credit risk calculated using the information provided in the credit report.

According to some embodiments non financial institutions such as merchants retailers utility companies social networks government agencies and the like provide non financial institution data to the risk database . The data received from non financial institutions may in some embodiments be collected and stored as non financial institution data which is distinct from the financial institution data is in electronic communication with the risk evaluating module . The non financial institution data further includes customer identification data and provides insight into customer activities and interactions.

In some embodiments non financial institution data includes activity transaction data . According to some embodiments activity transaction data includes data related to financial transactions such as non financial institution credit account transactions Point Of Sale POS transactions and the like. The data may include but is not limited to details of the purchase e.g. amount of electricity consumed detailed POS receipt listing items purchased and the like date time of purchases usages and seller s names and locations of where the purchases took place.

Additionally the activity transaction data includes for example online non financial data that includes transaction data related to any online transactions and the like.

In addition activity transaction data includes e commerce data that includes transaction data related to purchases of products or services made electronically such as via a merchant website or the like. In addition activity transaction data may include activity data. In this regard retailers in particular online retailers search engines or the like collect and may provide purchase activity and browsing data which may include browsing data related to purchases or interaction with the online site. In addition telephone companies may provide transaction in the form of telephone call data e.g. to whom calls were made from whom calls were received length of calls location determining data calling patterns and the like. Data from Telcos and alternatively Post Offices enable verification of active and or credible telephone numbers and or addresses.

Internet Service Providers ISPs search engines and social networks may provide activity transaction data in the form of browsing history contact friend lists email activity purchase transaction data including applications purchased and or used download data and the like. Additionally activity transaction data may include health care industry data such as but not limited to health care records Medicaid claims and the like.

The non financial institution data may also include product data that indicates the non financial product associated with the customer activity and or customer transaction. Non financial institution products may include but are not limited to email service wireline phone service electricity home improvement products online books or the like. As previously noted part or all of the product data may be included in the activity transaction data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the product data . The non financial institution data may also include account data that indicates the customer s non financial institution account associated with the customer s activity transaction. Non financial institution accounts may include but are not limited to a specific telephone number an email address a subscription a grocery membership rewards card layaway account or the like. In some instances the non financial institution accounts may be financial accounts such as a merchant credit card account or the like. In specific embodiments of the invention the account data file includes account status such as open new closed suspended balance limit and the like. As previously noted part or all of the account data may be included in the activity transaction data the product data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the account data .

In addition the non financial institution data may also include channel data that indicates the source of the customer activity transaction. Non financial institution channels may include but are not limited to the non financial institution retail outlet online mobile or via a call center. As previously noted part or all of the channel data may be included in the activity transaction data or the risk database may be configured to implement a separate file for the channel data .

Moreover the non financial institution data may include asset and liability data . The asset data may include but is not limited to deposit balances credit balances on accounts devices owned e.g. cellular telephone s and the like. The liability data may include credit outstanding credit limits payment status data layaway balances claims and the like.

In addition the non financial institution data may include customer data that indicates customer name personal data demographics data and any other customer data associated with accounts or products. Customer data may additionally include scores derived from the data in the risk database such as baseline and risk scores and the like. It may also include any risk indicators from data collected in the account data or negative file data regarding a customer or their associated information e.g. late payment data bad addresses or the like .

Further according to specific embodiments the non financial institution data may include negative file data which includes identifying data related to historical known fraud or other high risk activities. In specific embodiments the non financial institution negative file data may be multi industry negative file data or the like. Thus the negative file data may be received from multiple non financial institutions or from third party data aggregators . It should be noted that in specific embodiments negative file data may be received from entities that are not otherwise contributors to the risk database . Additionally negative file data includes but is not limited to fraudulent activity related to multiple products and or services and multiple communication channels for delivering the products services. The negative file data may include but is not limited to the name s of the high risk individuals and entities addresses telephone numbers social security numbers IP addresses device identifiers prints such as Subscriber Identity Module SIM number or the like biometric data such as fingerprint data voice data or the like associated with the fraud perpetrators and the like. The negative file data may also indicate if these data elements belong or are associated with a perpetrator s or have been illegitimately used by the perpetrator. Additionally negative file data may include suspicious account data otherwise referred to as compromised account data which includes data related to computer security violators i.e. hackers counterfeited accounts or the like. Additionally according to some embodiments the suspicious account data includes data related to fraudulent telephone calls and or a counter fraud intelligence platform that provides information related to viruses trojans malware and the like which targets financial institution customers. According to some embodiments this may include derogatory files from government agencies including liens insurance Medicare fraud and the like.

The non financial institution data may additionally include counterparty data . A counterparty is defined herein as the parties that are involved in the transaction with non financial institution customer s such as a seller buyer caller network transmitting the call emailer social network friend and the like. Counterparty data may include but is not limited to data related to customer transactions or interactions that are specific to the counterparty. Additionally counterparty data includes identifying characteristics of the counterparties such as but not limited to name location merchant number parent company and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the counterparty data is augmented with data regarding the counterparty that can be obtained from the customer data as well as claims data . Additionally counterparty data may include overall statistics associated with the counterparty that are relevant to risk determination.

The non financial institution data may also include claims data that includes fraud and non fraud claims made by the customer or the counterparty. The claims data is across multiple non financial institution products multiple non financial institution channels and multiple different non financial institution entities.

In some embodiments of risk database financial institution data and non financial institution data are combined in one database. In these embodiments data may be organized by customer transaction accounts products or the like regardless of whether it was sourced from a financial institution or a non financial institution. In other embodiments data may not be sourced at product or channel levels but a product or channel may be derived from at least one of the activity transaction data account data asset and liability data and or customer data . In other embodiments the data is stored by supplier and then combined as needed for analytic purposes.

Referring to a schematic diagram is shown in which concentric circles represent the various levels of information received from financial and non financial institutions and processed by the centralized risk database in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At the first level represented by the innermost circle the centralized risk database receives transaction activity level data . For financial institutions transaction data may include but are not limited to payments purchases with external entities such as retailers merchants or the like deposits withdrawals transfers advances payments and the like made internally within the financial institution. Transaction data identifies the entities which the customer is transacting with. Aggregating transaction activity level data results in account product channel level data . Aggregation of accounts can also result in product data.

At the second level represented by the second innermost circle the centralized risk database receives account product channel level data . For financial institutions accounts may include but are not limited to checking accounts savings accounts loan accounts investment accounts and the like. Products may include but are not limited to checking products credit card products debit card products loan products online services telephone services and the like. Channels may include but are not limited to retail locations ATMs kiosks call centers online websites including mobile applications and the like. Aggregating transaction activity level data across accounts products or channels i.e. account product channel level data results in customer client level data .

At the third level represented by the third innermost circle the centralized risk database receives customer client level data . As previously noted a customer includes consumer customers individuals or joint parties and business or corporate customers. Aggregating customer client level data across a given characteristic results in network segment industry level data .

At the fourth level represented by the second outermost circle the centralized risk database receives network segment industry level data . The network data may be reflected by one or more inter dependencies or interactions such as friendship kinship financial exchange or other relationships memberships based upon common interest common dislike common beliefs knowledge or prestige to which a plurality of customers or clients belong. Segment data may be reflected by one or more common characteristics shared by customers or clients. Industry data may be reflected by all of the data within an industry associated with a group of clients. Aggregating customer client level data across similar characteristics such as activities geographic locations interactions industries or the like results in network segment industry level data .

At the fifth level represented by the outermost circle the centralized database receives population level data . The population data reflects the overall population of customers or clients. Aggregating network segment industry level data results in population level data .

The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor that is communication with the memory . The memory stores customer segment counterparty identifying logic routine that is configured to uniquely identify a customer or customers within a customer segment or a counterparty i.e. parties with whom a customer transacts or interacts with from within the data received by the centralized risk database for the purpose of subsequently determining activity baseline scoring and and risk scoring and shown in for the customer the customer segment or the counterparty. Counterparty activity baseline scoring provides an indication of how the counterparty acts in certain transactions. An example of a counterparty activity baseline score that would be monitored for risk purposes is merchant fraud claim rates. If a merchant s fraud rates increase it may indicate that the merchant has been compromised.

The memory additionally stores activity baseline scoring logic routine which is configured to determine customer activity baseline scores for a plurality of customers and or segment activity baseline scores for a population customer segment which indicates how the segment of customers normally acts from an activity perspective and or counterparty activity baseline scores for a counterparty which indicates how the counterparty normally acts from an activity perspective. The customer activity baseline score the segment activity baseline score and the counterparty activity baseline score define the normal activity for the customer or the segment of customers or counterparty.

In specific embodiments the customer activity baseline score the segment activity baseline score and the counterparty activity baseline score are based on financial institution data and or non financial institution data stored in the centralized risk database shown in such as but not limited to individual check transactions debit transactions ACH transactions bill pay transactions or credit card transactions. In addition negative file data and or asset and liability data shown in may be utilized to determine the baseline risk scores and . Additionally the customer activity baseline score the segment activity baseline score and the counterparty activity baseline score may be based on non financial institution data such as retailer data utility data or the like.

As such activity baseline scoring logic routine accesses data such as financial institution data and or non financial institution data or the like to determine the customer activity baseline score the segment activity baseline score and the counterparty activity baseline score . For example the activity baseline scoring logic routine when calculating a customer activity baseline score a segment activity baseline score and or a counterparty activity baseline score considers for each customer how often and when the customer uses an ATM calls a call center visits a branch location accesses online banking writes a check uses a debit card uses a credit card makes a deposit etc. In addition to frequency information the activity baseline scoring logic routine may consider the amounts of transactions location of activities channels and products used asset and liability balances maintained and the like. The activity baseline scoring logic routine then calculates an activity baseline score that represents those considerations and defines what is normal or baseline for that particular customer customer segment or counterparty .

It should also be noted that multiple activity baseline scores can be determined for a customer multiple segment activity baseline scores can be determined for the associated customer segment and or multiple counterparty activity baseline scores can be determined for the associated counterparty . This is because activity baseline scores are activity based meaning that baseline scores are associated with one or more activities characteristics traits or the like associated with the customer segment or counterparty. As such multiple customer activity baseline scores and or multiple segment activity baseline scores and or multiple counterparty activity baseline scores aid in better understanding the activity of the customer or segment. For example an activity baseline score may be associated with the locations where the customer or segment interacts transacts and or persons entities that the customer or segment transacts with. A further example includes customer activity baseline scores and or segment scores and or counterparty scores associated with customer deposits and or withdrawals. Such deposit associated and or withdrawal associated scores provide insight into changes in income whether the customer is liquidating assets overdrawing across multiple financial institutions and the like. Further a comprehensive or overall activity baseline score may be determined for a customer a customer segment or a counterparty that takes into account all of the customer s customer segment s counterparty s activities characteristics traits and the like.

Additionally activity baseline scoring logic routine is configured to determine baseline deviations from the customer activity baseline scores and or segment activity baseline scores and or counterparty activity baseline scores . According to specific embodiments baseline deviations may be configured to be based on a single event transaction or a series or combination of events transactions. For example a withdrawal in excess of a baseline withdrawal amount for the particular individual customer may define a baseline deviation or a certain number of withdrawals in excess to the individual customer s baseline number of withdrawals over a designated period may constitute a baseline deviation . In addition in certain embodiments in order to ensure that timely corrective actions occur the events transactions associated with an activity baseline deviation may be determined and reported to the activity baseline scoring logic routine in real time or near real time to the occurrence of the deviation and or in periodic batch file processing. It should also be noted that deviations may include negative deviations i.e. deviations that increase risk and negatively impact the activity baseline scores and and positive deviations i.e. deviations that decrease risk and positively impact the activity baseline scores and .

Additionally apparatus includes a communication capability that is configured to communicate risk scores shown in and activity baseline scores to financial institutions non financial institutions customers and counterparties. In some embodiments the customer or counterparty must indicate consent to have their risk scores or activity baseline scores shared with another entity. The communications capability is configured to communicate these scores to financial institutions and non financial institutions upon receiving requests and meeting other predefined requirements for obtaining receipt of this information. The communications capability may further be configured to provide periodic updates of these scores to customers counterparties financial institutions and non financial institutions. In specific embodiments of the invention the updates may be sent in parallel so that all entities receive updates at the same time or the updates may be sent at different times.

Additionally the communications capability includes risk alert logic routine that is configured to automatically generate and initiate communication of risk score alerts to predetermined entities upon determination of a predefined threshold or changes in customer risk score shown in or the like. Additionally in other specific embodiments risk alert logic routine is configured to generate and initiate communication of risk score deviation alerts to predetermined entities upon determination of a predefined deviation threshold or occurrence of a predefined deviation event or combination of events. The risk score alerts and or risk score deviation alerts may be configured to be communicated to the business such as the financial institution industry wide such as to all financial institutions to the customer client to retailers government agencies or the like. In certain embodiments of the invention the risk score alerts and risk score deviation alerts may be communicated to businesses financial institutions and non financial institutions that have an active relationship with the customer and may in some embodiments require the business to subscribe to an alert service. Additionally the risk alert logic routine may be configured to communicate the alert to a designated entity based on the type of deviation or the level of deviation e.g. certain deviations will be configured to send alerts to the business while other deviations typically more severe deviations will be configured to be sent to those who have a business relationship with the customer segment counterparty specific businesses within an industry industry wide and or to government agencies. In this regard the risk score deviation alert may notify an entity of a negative deviation and or a positive deviation and the risk score alert may notify the entity of an increase or decrease in the risk score or .

In addition the communications capability stores third party query logic routine that is configured to provide for receipt of third party deviation queries which allow for a third party such as a financial institution or non financial institution e.g. a merchant or the like to access system and specifically access third party query logic routine to determine if an event activity associated with a customer is a deviation from the norm i.e. a deviation from the customer s baseline score or the like . Based on the determination a query response is communicated to the third party which serves to notify the third party of the verification non verification of the deviation. In addition the third party query logic routine may be configured to receive baseline score queries and or risk score queries from customers counterparties financial institutions or non financial institutions which in response return a query response that includes the requested baseline score or or requested risk score or . In some embodiments of the invention a third party request for a baseline score or a risk score initiates periodic transmissions of those scores to the third party e.g. request a score at account opening and receive monthly updates . In other embodiments the third party query logic routine is configured to receive customer profile queries which are configured to cause the processor to query the customer data files and and the negative file data and to confirm a customer s personal information and other customer criteria is legitimate and up to date.

In additional embodiments communications capability may be configured to communicate notification of updates to negative file data and or to predetermined entities upon determination of a negative file update. In still further additional embodiments the communications capability may be configured to communicate notification of suspicious activity to predetermined entities. Suspicious activity may include but is not limited to when a customer s personal data and or financial data appear within negative file data or e.g. their telephone number when there is a deviation in the customer s risk score accounts are opened or closed in the customer s name at financial or non financial institutions as recorded in account data and biometric data provided does not match biometrics on file for the customer and the like.

In some embodiments of the invention the customer or counterparty may be required to indicate consent to have their risk scores or activity baseline scores shared with a third party. Additionally in other embodiments of the invention the third party may be required to demonstrate that they meet the requirements for obtaining these scores based upon legal and regulatory requirements. In other embodiments of the invention the third party may be required to demonstrate that they have met the predefined requirements established by the company or companies managing the risk database the activity baseline scores or activity baseline deviation the risk scores or the risk alert logic routine and or the third party query logic routine .

The risk alert logic routine and the third party query logic routine may be configured to communicate the alerts or or the query response via a chosen communication channel such as letter email Short Message Service SMS text voicemail or the like. Since most queries and alerts will be communicated to businesses financial institutions and non financial institutions in many instances the queries and or alerts will be configured to be communicated electronically either in real time near real time or periodic batch files to the business system database or the like. These business to business communications can include one or multiple queries and or alerts pertaining to one or multiple customers segments or counterparties.

In certain embodiments of the invention when new emerging risk patterns are identified the probability to manage these new risks are also identified and shared with various businesses who are customers of the risk pattern data or the risk database . Additionally in some embodiments the emerging risk pattern may provide one or all of the following probability of incurring a gross or net loss associated with new emerging risk means to identify the risk pattern and or recommendations regarding how to prevent transactions or combinations of activities transactions associated with the risk vs. flagging them for further evaluation . The communication of these new or emerging risk patterns to the appropriate financial and non financial institutions may be managed via communications capability shown in . In some embodiments new emerging risk patterns are also communicated to the risk score logic routine initiating an update of customer segment population and counterparty risk scores and . In addition once a new emerging risk pattern is identified the corresponding known risk file is updated to reflect the new emerging risk pattern .

Additionally the memory of apparatus stores risk score logic routine that is configured to determine a customer risk score for customers a segment risk score for customer segment and or a counterparty risk score for counterparties . The customer risk score and or segment risk score and or counterparty score provides an indication of the likelihood that the customer the segment of customers or the counterparty represents a risk that is likely to result in a financial loss such as likelihood to default perpetrate a fraud in the future or the likelihood that the counterparty customer or segment is susceptible to fraud or default in the future. According to specific embodiments the customer risk score or segment risk score or counterparty risk score may be based off of risk patterns determined from financial institution data such as but not limited to activity transaction data shown in asset and liability data shown in negative file data shown in and the like. As previously discussed the risk pattern analysis logic routine may be implemented to identify incidences of known risk patterns in a customer s segment s or counterparty s profile that correlate to loss. In some embodiments the risk score logic routine weighs the incidences of risk patterns based upon the frequency mix and probability of loss associated with the individual risk patterns and the combination of risk patterns in a customer s segment s or counterparty s profile. In alternate embodiments the customer risk score or segment risk score or counterparty risk score may be additionally based on risk patterns based off of non financial institution data such as but not limited to activity transaction data shown in asset and liability data shown in negative file data shown in and the like. In specific embodiments of the invention negative file data and or are implemented in risk scoring to incorporate history of risk and any negatives associated with customer data and or shown in e.g. incorrect telephone number high risk zip code or the like .

The customer and counterparty risk scores when compared to segment risk scores can tell a company whether a customer represents an average above average or below average risk of loss. In some embodiments the score may include patterns related to the ability to detect a risky transaction or combination of transactions or traits in process which if detected could prevent or mitigate the risk event. In some embodiments the segment risk score provides for identifying locations zip codes merchants and the like that have above average risk e.g. fraud etc. rates.

Optionally memory of apparatus may store risk health logic routine that is configured to determine a company risk health indicator industry wide risk health indicator and or sector risk health indicator for a sector of an industry examples of sectors include specific businesses within the industry e.g. luxury auto sector of the auto industry . The risk health indicator which may be configured as a score or the like provides an indication of how well the industry sector of the industry or company is managing risk such as fraud credit or the like or conversely how poorly the industry sector of the industry or company is doing in not managing risk. Additionally according to specific embodiments the risk health indicator and or provides for identifying points of compromise such as ATMs retailers processors or the like which have above average fraud rates indicative of having been compromised hacked. In additional embodiments the risk health indicator and or provides for identifying locations zip codes merchant locations and the like that have above average risk e.g. default fraud etc. rates.

Turning the reader s attention to depicted is an apparatus configured for suspicious activity monitoring in accordance with further embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor . The memory stores suspicious activity monitoring logic routine that is configured to provide comprehensive suspicious activity monitoring across multiple financial institution products multiple financial institution channels and multiple financial institutions. As such the monitoring is not limited to credit products data but since the logic routine has access to all of the data provided in the centralized risk database including deposit data and investment security data including account data and product data which does not necessarily require credit checks. As such the monitored data is not limited to conventionally monitored credit data but also any financial institution data including but not limited to multiple financial institutions activity transaction data product data and channel data . In addition monitored data may include account data such as account opening and closing data and the like that is used to identify suspicious activity potentially associated with an identity theft incident. Additionally the monitored data may include asset and liability data including asset data such as deposit balances account gone to loss events investments and liability data such as credit outstanding credit limits payment status and the like.

The monitored data may also include linking data that links activities transactions to a customer such as personal identifiers e.g. name address social security number or the like. Additionally according to specific embodiments the monitored data may also include emerging data such as biometric data including voice fingerprint and the like. In some embodiments the personal linking data and biometrics data are found within the risk database in the customer data and or . The suspicious activity monitoring logic routine monitors customers customer data account data and activity transaction data for suspicious activity . Suspicious activities include but are not limited to when a customer s personal data and or financial data appear within negative file or e.g. their telephone number when there is a deviation in the customer s risk score accounts are opened or closed in the customer s name at financial or non financial institutions as recorded in account data and biometric data provided does not match biometrics on file for the customer and the like.

The suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may further be configured to receive identity theft queries from financial institution non financial institution entities and or customers and determine whether a queried transaction activity person or entity represents a likely identity theft incident. The suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may rely on any of the monitored data to determine if the queried transaction activity person or entity represents a likely identity theft incident. Based on the results of the query a response may be communicated to the querying party and or other parties as dictated by the nature of the query the likelihood of the identity theft incident or the like. Further the suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may further be configured to receive identity validation queries from financial institution non financial institution entities and or customers and validate the identity of a person or entity identified in the query. The suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may rely on any of the monitored data to validate the identity of the queried person or entity. Based on the results of the validation a response may be communicated to the querying party and or other parties that serve to validate or repudiate the identity of the person or entity.

Based on the occurrence of a suspicious activity the logic routine may according to specific embodiments generate and communicate a suspicious activity alert to one or more designated entities such as financial institutions the customer non financial institutions or the like. Additionally according to further specific embodiments the suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may be configured to generate and communicate suspicious activity reports which may be communicated to designated entities such as financial institutions non financial institutions customers or the like. Customer review of such reports provides for verification of the compromising event or data element.

In certain embodiments of the invention the suspicious activity reports also fulfill the need to supply customers clients with the data that is used to detect a suspicious activity and create their activity baseline scores and or their risk scores. Additionally in some embodiments upon receipt of such reports should a customer identify an error in the data reported they can work with either the supplier of the data to correct it or with the entity managing the risk database .

Based on the confirmation of an identity theft incident associated with identified suspicious activity the logic routine may according to specific embodiments generate and communicate an identity theft alert to one or more designated entities such as financial institutions the customer non financial institutions or the like. Additionally according to further specific embodiments the suspicious activity monitoring logic routine may be configured to generate and communicate ID theft reports which may be financial institutions non financial institutions customers or the like.

The system includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further system also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as the risk evaluating module and related applications routines and or logic or the like stored in the memory of the system .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of system and the operability of the system on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with the risk evaluating module or the like or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

System additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the system as well as between the other devices in the network. Thus communications module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection. It should be appreciated that the communications module is the mechanism through which subscribers to various services provided by embodiments of the present invention can submit queries to the system . It should also be appreciated that the communications module is the mechanism through which embodiments of the present invention sends alerts reports scores data to configured recipients and the like.

The memory includes risk evaluating module that is executable by processor . The risk evaluating module receives data and . As previously discussed the financial institution data may include but is not limited to activity transaction data product data account data channel data asset liability data customer data negative file data counterparty data and claims data . Further the non financial institution data may include but is not limited to activity transaction data product data account data channel data asset liability data customer data negative file data counterparty data and claims data .

The risk evaluating module includes a plurality of logic routines configured to assess manage and mitigate risk based on use of the data collected in the centralized risk database . The logic routines shown in are by way of example only and as such risk evaluating module may include more or less logic routines as dictated by the implementation of system . In specific embodiments risk evaluating module includes network building logic routine . The network building logic routine is configured to gather data and from the centralized risk database and format and correlate the data for the purpose of communication to and from integrated risk and customer data network shown in . The network provides for communication of the comprehensive data set. Analytics providers can access the network to obtain a single source of high quality data thereby reducing costs associated with providing analytics. Further financial institutions can access the network to obtain industry wide information about specific customers history of risk fraud and thereby reduce costs associated with transacting with high risk customers as well as access to other aggregated information for the purpose of managing risk e.g. drawing down 100 of their lines of credit across different financial institutions may inform a different bank s decision to pay an account gone to loss event or an investment company s decision to lend on margin . In other embodiments of the invention financial institutions or non financial institutions can receive notification from the system of a change negative or positive in risk status.

The risk evaluating module further includes previously described activity baseline scoring logic routine . The activity baseline scoring logic routine generates one and in many instances multiple activity baseline score s for individual customers or segments of customers or counterparties. The activity baseline score defines the normal transaction activity for a customer or a segment of customers and may be customer activity or customer characteristic specific. According to specific embodiments the activity baseline scoring logic routine is configured to access financial institution data and in some embodiments the non financial institution data to determine the activity baseline score. In specific embodiments the activity baseline scoring logic routine is configured to calculate determine an activity baseline score based on a plurality of transaction customer specific parameters including but not limited to how often and when the customer uses an ATM calls a call center visits a branch location accesses online banking writes a check uses a debit card uses a credit card makes a deposit the amounts of the related transactions cross channel purchasing activities etc. The activity baseline scoring logic routine then calculates an activity baseline score that represents those considerations and defines what normal and abnormal activities are for a customer.

The activity baseline scoring logic routine is further configured to determine positive or negative deviations from the baseline score and provide alerts based on the deviations. According to specific embodiments risk deviations may be configured to be based on a single event transaction or a series of events transactions. Thus a deviation may be defined as a predetermined degree of deviation from the activity baseline score or the like. It should also be noted that deviations from the baseline may include negative deviations i.e. deviations that increase risk and positive deviations i.e. deviations that decrease risk .

Further risk evaluating module according to specific embodiments includes risk score logic routine that is configured to determine one or more risk scores for customers segments or populations of customers and or counterparties. The risk score and or segment risk score and or counterparty risk score provides an indication of the likelihood that the customer the segment of customers or the counterparty represents a risk that is likely to result in a financial loss such as likelihood to default perpetrate a fraud in the future be involved in a financial unlawful act. In some embodiments it may also indicate the likelihood that the counterparty customer or segment is susceptible to become a victim of fraud default or other risk in the future. A customer or counterparty may have multiple risk scores e.g. a risk score for fraud a risk score for credit loss a risk score for money laundering an overall risk score and the like . The risk score is based upon risk pattern data which identifies risky activities transactions patterns and combinations thereof.

According to specific embodiments the risk scores may be based on risk patterns based off of financial institution data . In alternate embodiments the risk scores may be additionally based on risk patterns based off of non financial institution data . In further embodiments of the invention the risk scores may be based on financial institution negative file data and optionally non financial institution negative file data to incorporate history of risk and any negatives associated with customer data e.g. incorrect telephone number high risk zip code or the like .

The risk score logic routine may be further configured to assign customers or groups of customers to segments based on their risk score. For example according to specific embodiments the risk scores may be based on a scale of one to ten where one is the lowest risk and ten is the highest risk. The risk score logic routine may be configured to assign customers having a risk score between one and three into a low risk segment group. This low risk group s activities are not considered high risk nor are they associated with any high risk companies or individuals. There is a low chance that customers in the low risk segment will act in such a manner such that those doing business with them will lose money due to fraud default or other type of risk. In some embodiments of the invention these customers are assigned a low risk score because their financial activity is highly predictable rarely deviating from their activity baseline score as calculated by the activity baseline scoring logic routine .

The risk score logic routine may be further configured to assign customers having a risk score between eight and ten to a high risk group indicating those who do business with these people or entities have an above average risk of losing money in these business transactions. The high risk group may include customers who engage in multiple high risk activities e.g. pay bills late associate with known dishonest individuals and make large number of cash advances against credit cards to cover account gone to loss events etc. . The high risk group may also include customers that have committed fraud in the past. The high risk group may also include customers who have highly variable activities which make one or more activity baseline scores unreliable and not predictive.

The risk evaluating module according to some embodiments also includes previously described risk alert logic routine . The risk alert logic routine generates and communicates risk score alerts and or risk deviation alerts to the appropriate financial institution entities non financial institution entities or customers based on a predetermined increase or decrease in risk score a predetermined level of deviation positive or negative and or a specific deviation event or combination of deviation events.

Additionally the risk evaluating module according to some embodiments also includes previously described third party query logic routine . The third party query logic routine is configured to receive deviation queries risk score queries or activity baseline score queries from third parties and determine whether activities or events exhibited by customers at the third party are deviations from the norm i.e. deviations from the activity baseline score or determine the current risk score or activity baseline score and based on the determination communicate query responses back to the third party. In other embodiments the third party query logic routine is configured to look at the customer data and and the negative file data and to confirm the customer s personal information and is legitimate. In some embodiments the third party query logic routine also sets up and executes ongoing refreshes of risk scores and activity baseline scores on a periodic basis to third parties.

According to some embodiments the risk evaluating module also includes previously described risk pattern analysis logic routine . The risk pattern analysis logic routine monitors the collected data identifies a known risk or a new emerging type of risk and generates risk pattern reports and or prompts risk pattern alerts. The known risk or a new emerging risk type is identified by analyzing activity transaction data claims data and or the negative file data . In some embodiments of the invention at least one of the following data elements are also included in the detection of new emerging risk patterns product data account data channel data asset and liability data customer data and counterparty data . According to specific embodiments the risk pattern analysis logic routine is configured to generate industry wide reports as well as reports for individual financial institutions or non financial institutions. In addition to pattern reporting risk pattern analysis logic routine may be further configured to prompt generation and communication of risk pattern alerts to designated entities who can then take appropriate action. For example if risk pattern data shows high correlation of fraud activity coming from customers who take out cash advances against credit cards while concurrently overdrawing their checking accounts designated entities may receive an alert report outlining the new risk pattern and in some embodiments the probability of loss and or recoverability associated with this risk pattern.

Further embodiments of the risk evaluating module include previously mentioned risk health logic routine that is configured to determine an industry wide risk health indicator and or risk health indicator for a segment of an industry examples of segments include luxury autos auto industry extended stay hotels lodging industry credit unions in Ohio versus all of the United States financial institutions or the like. The risk health indicator which may be configured as a score or the like provides an indication of how well the industry segment of the industry or customer is managing risk e.g. detecting preventing mitigating recovering etc. .

According to other specific embodiments the risk evaluating module leveraging data from the risk database also includes economic trends analysis logic routine . The economic trends analysis logic routine monitors the collected data identifies trends beyond that of fraud risk which relate to economic health and generates reports. In some embodiments of the invention the economic trends analysis logic routine may include tools to monitor market risk. In other embodiments of the invention the economic trends analysis logic routine may generate historical economic activity reports and or economic forecasts at segment industry and geographic levels.

According to further specific embodiments the risk evaluating module also includes previously described suspicious activity monitoring logic routine . As noted the suspicious activity monitoring logic routine monitors customers transactions accounts and personal information and sends identity theft alerts when suspicious activity is identified. The suspicious activity monitoring logic routine because it has access to all of the data and in the centralized risk database provides more comprehensive protection than currently employed identity theft prevention systems provided by credit bureaus which are generally limited to credit products data and do not include credit card transaction data. In specific embodiments the suspicious activity monitoring logic routine is configured to monitor transactions and asset liability accounts and balances across multiple products and multiple financial institutions including deposit and investment transactions and balances which are not generally reported to a credit bureau.

According to still further embodiments the risk evaluating module may also include risk report logic routine . The risk report logic routine provides risk reports that include an individual s a business or a segment of the business history of risk fraud. For example according to certain embodiments risk reports may be configured to be similar to credit reports except risk reports emphasize risk related information. Risk reports may be used to develop an identity score or other identity authentication capabilities based upon the data collected regarding their financial activities demographics and non financial activities e.g. calling activity Internet surfing activity and the like .

According to other specific embodiments the risk evaluating module also includes a target marketing logic routine . The target marketing logic routine is configured to monitor the collected data identify customers who meet specific risk activity and or likely profitability specifications and generate target marketing lists or reports. The target marketing logic routine can also generate segmentation models for the purposes of marketing to customers based on their assets net worth activities likely profitability and or risk attributes.

Moreover in other embodiments the risk evaluating module may also include recovery logic routine . The recovery logic routine is configured to leverage the financial information data and the non financial institution data in recovery activities such as providing data and analytic support to the legal process identifying parties involved in the risk event recovering lost funds from appropriate parties and the like.

At Event data is received in the risk database from one or more third party data aggregators . As provided above the data aggregators may provide any and or all of the same types of data provided by the financial institutions and or the non financial institution entities. At Event non financial institution data is received from non financial institutions. As provided above non financial institution data may include activity transaction data product data account data channel data asset and liability data customer data negative file data counterparty data and claims data .

At Event negative file data and are received from multiple financial institutions non financial institutions data aggregators and the like to create or update the negative file. As previously noted the negative file may include names of high risk entities e.g. fraud perpetrators etc. as well as addresses telephone numbers social security numbers tax identification numbers IP addresses device identifiers biometric data that have been associated with high risk individuals or proven to be counterfeit and the like.

Next at Event the risk evaluating module receives data feeds from or otherwise accesses the risk database that includes data collected from multiple financial institutions data aggregators and non financial institutions. The data may include but is not limited to the financial institution data and the non financial institution data . The data and may be downloaded periodically or on a predetermined schedule or on an as needed basis or the risk evaluating module may be configured to receive real time feeds of the data and .

Next at Event the activity baseline scoring logic routine calculates or updates an activity based activity baseline score for each customer and or customer segments and or counterparties and for one or more activities based on the data provided in centralized risk database . For example to determine an activity based activity baseline score for a customer the activity baseline scoring logic routine may filter and or search the risk database to determine which financial institutions are associated with the customer and then identify the accounts related to the customer within each financial institution. In addition the activity baseline scoring logic routine may search the transactional data associated with the identified customer to identify debit patterns deposit patterns debit card purchase patterns wire transfers patterns cellular telephone calling patterns internet surfing patterns and the like. The activity baseline scoring logic routine develops an activity baseline scores for the customers customer segments and or counterparties based on the identified patterns.

At Event the risk score logic routine calculates risk scores for each customer and or customer segment and or counterparty based on the data in the centralized risk database . According to some embodiments the risk score logic routine monitors the customer s data for risk pattern data and then calculates the customer s risk score based at least in part on whether any risk pattern data were identified the mix and frequency of the risk pattern data and the probability of loss associated with each risk pattern data identified.

At Event the network building logic routine is executed to format and correlate the data and as well as the activity baseline scores and risk scores and then arranges the data into the integrated risk and customer data network such that the data and and the baseline and risk scores are organized according to customer customer segment counterparty or the like. In some embodiments of the invention integrated risk and customer data can also organize data and and where appropriate the activity baseline and risk scores by other defining traits such as product channel geography network and the like.

In other embodiments the activity baseline score may be a customer segment baseline score associated with one or more customer segment activities. The customer segment is defined as a plurality of customers having at least one common activity characteristic trait or the like. In other embodiments the activity baseline score may be a counterparty baseline score associated with one or more counterparty activities. The counterparty is defined as the other persons and or entities excluding the customer involved in a transaction or interaction with the customer client.

In other embodiments a plurality of customer or customer segment or counterparty activity baseline scores are determined such that each activity baseline score is associated with different one or more customer or customer segment activities.

At Event the financial institution data is monitored for deviations from the activity baseline score. In specific embodiments non financial institution data may additionally be monitored in addition to financial institution data for deviations from the activity baseline score. In further embodiments in which the activity baseline score is a customer segment baseline score the financial institution data is monitored for deviations from the customer segment baseline score. In other embodiments in which a plurality of activity baseline scores are determined the financial institution data is monitored for deviations from the plurality of customer activity baseline scores.

At Event a risk management action is initiated based on the determination of one or more deviations from the customer activity baseline score. In specific embodiments the risk management action includes generating and communicating an activity baseline deviation alert based on determination of predetermined deviations levels of deviations types of deviation or the like. The predetermined deviations may vary either positively or negatively from the baseline score by a predetermined amount that warrants notifying one or more entities such as the risk assessment and mitigation entity for example a financial institution a business a government agency or the affected customer s . In specific embodiments the predetermined communication entities may be based on a predetermined level of risk score such that certain entities receive the alert if one level of score is attained and other entities receive the alert if a second level of score is attained and so on.

Referring to another flow diagram is presented of a method for risk management in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At Event one or more risk patterns associated with financial institution data including at least one of transaction data or asset data are received. In additional embodiments negative file data liability data counterparty data and or non financial institution data may also be received.

At Event a customer risk score is based on one or more risk patterns. In specific embodiments the customer risk score may be based upon the occurrence of risk patterns within a customer profile the quantity of risk patterns the severity of risk patterns the frequency of risk patterns the types of risk patterns and the like. In alternate embodiments customer segment risk scores and or counterparty risk scores may be determined based upon risk patterns found in the customer s or counterparty s profile relating to customer data account data asset and liability data and or counterparty data.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for determining one or more customer activity baseline scores each score associated with one or more customer activities and based at least in part on financial institution data from multiple financial institutions. The activity baseline score defines a normal risk or baseline risk for the customer in terms of the activity ies . Further the invention provides for monitoring at least the financial institution data to determine deviations from the activity baseline score s . In addition embodiments of the invention provide for determining risk scores based on the identification of risk patterns within a customer s profile of activities assets liabilities and or networks. In optional embodiments the invention also includes generating and initiating communication of risk score alerts and or activity baseline deviation alerts based on predetermined activity baseline scores or activity baseline deviations.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

