---

title: System and method for transferring an ongoing communication from a wireless handheld telephony device
abstract: Devices, methods, and programmed instructions useful for transferring an end of an existing call session from a wireless handheld telephony device to a second device, such as a desk phone. The second device provides information useful for transferring the call directly to the handheld device on which the call session is established.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798605&OS=08798605&RS=08798605
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08798605
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100618
---
The present disclosure claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 297 014 filed Jan. 21 2010 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to wireless handheld telephony devices and more particularly to systems and methods for transferring an end of an ongoing communication session from a first telephony device to a second telephony device.

There is a need for improved devices and methods for allowing a user of a telephony device such as a wireless telephone to transfer the user s end of a telephone call session from the telephony device on which the call session was established to a second telephony device such as a desk telephone. The ability to make such transfers can for example improve the security of the call session e.g. the security of the communications from eavesdroppers the comfort of the user the economics of the telephone call such for example where a wireless telephone subscription disfavors extended wireless use and other factors.

Some systems and devices for transferring calls from wireless to other telephony devices do exist. However they tend to be less flexible secure dependable and user friendly than they might be. There is need for improvement.

For example in some aspects the disclosure herein provides a wireless handheld telephony device comprising at least one wireless signal receiver at least one wireless signal transmitter at least one data processor and media readable by the at least one data processor comprising coded program instructions adapted for enabling the wireless handheld telephony device to cause transfer to a second telephony device of an end of a communications session previously established between the wireless handheld telephony device and at least one third telephony device. The wireless handheld telephony device can for example do so by while the previously established communications session between the wireless handheld telephony device and the at least one third telephony device is maintained receiving direct from one or more target local telephony devices one or more wireless signals representing data useful for establishing communications between the one or more target local telephony device and a call server managing the end of the previously established communications session associated with the wireless handheld telephony device using the wireless signals received direct from the one or more target local telephony devices instructing the call server to establish a communications session between a selected one of the one or more target local telephony devices and the at least one third telephony device and upon establishment of a communications session between the selected target local telephony device and the at least one third telephony device terminating the previously established communications session between the wireless handheld telephony device and the at least one third telephony device.

In some other aspects the disclosure provides a method of transferring to a second telephony device an end of a communications session previously established between a wireless handheld telephony device and at least one third telephony device where the wireless handheld telephony device comprises at least one wireless signal receiver at least one wireless signal transmitter at least one data processor and media readable by the at least one data processor comprising coded program instructions. Such methods can for example comprise while maintaining the previously established communications session between the wireless handheld telephony device and the at least one third telephony device receiving direct from one or more target local telephony devices one or more wireless signals representing data useful for establishing communications between the one or more target local telephony devices and a call server managing the end of the previously established communications session associated with the wireless handheld telephony device using the wireless signals received direct from the one or more target local telephony devices instructing the call server to establish a communications session between a selected one of the at least one target local telephony devices and the at least one third telephony device and upon establishment of a communications session between the selected local telephony device and the at least one third telephony device terminating the previously established communications session between the wireless handheld telephony device and the at least one third telephony device.

Other aspects of the disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls and that references to calls are intended to refer to session based communications sessions of any type including voice data or text communications unless clearly indicated otherwise by context. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example of a system generally designated for the control and management of communications suitable for use in implementing the systems and methods disclosed herein. System includes an enterprise or business communications system which may include a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

Enterprise network may be connected for example through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. Enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

Enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. Connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

Enterprise network may also provide one or more wireless local area networks WLANs featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

System may include and or interact with a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . Mobile device s may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for WI FI wireless communications over one of the WLANs and or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in for example any of a variety of known manners as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

Enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. Enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

Enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

In the embodiment shown enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server can function to redirect copy or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN and or elsewhere. Among other functions enterprise server and relay together can facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises enterprise network can include one or more Private Branch eXchanges although in various embodiments the PBX s may be standard PBX s or IP PBX s for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls to and from digital and or analog telephones or other telephony devices for the enterprise. PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . PBX may also be connected to enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

Enterprise network may include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing aspects of messaging or session control such as call control and advanced call processing features. SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

For devices such as telephony devices controlled by or otherwise associated with it enterprise communications platform can implement switching to connect session legs and may provide conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or connect legs of other media sessions. Such calls sessions may be set up and modified on behalf of devices and any desired telephony devices within or outside enterprise network including for example devices connected to PSTN . In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the capabilities of enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to mobile device s . For example enterprise communications platform may allow mobile device s to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc. As further described elsewhere herein enterprise communications platform can further provide functions such as transfer of corresponding ends of existing communications sessions from one or more mobile devices to wired telephony devices associated with platform .

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based e.g. voice communications in general and in some instances to text image or other messaging based communications.

In this embodiment SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by PBX are handled by SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. Digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. Digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. Scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of SMP . Scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

Call control server is coupled to PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between PBX and call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows an embodiment of enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . Protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that system can operate using the above disclosed or any other suitable protocols. As known by those skilled in the relevant arts SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those skilled in the relevant arts SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services call and or session transfer enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers can be used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer can then be combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

Application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in Conference server is provided in enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . Conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system for transferring an end of a communication session from a wireless handheld telephony device to a second telephony device in accordance with the disclosure herein. The system comprises one or more wireless handheld telephony device s any one or more of which may be engaged in established or ongoing communications with at least one third telephony device through PSTN or other communication cloud or network such as PSTN or PLMN of . In some embodiments the system may be a hosted environment such as a corporate or enterprise environment or it may be a switching environment.

Communication cloud may be adapted for carrying voice communications according for example to any of the several IP or non IP protocols described above or any other suitable protocols or methods. For example in some embodiments communication cloud may comprise or otherwise interact with a PSTN and or PLMN . Communication cloud may also be capable of carrying image text or other data. For example communication cloud may comprise a WAN such as the Internet.

Wireless handheld telephony device s may be any type of wireless handheld device with telephony capabilities including but not limited to cellular telephones BlackBerry devices PDAs and other devices described herein. Such wireless handheld telephony devices can facilitate voice telephonic and or other communications through for example wireless call server s . Call server s can comprise any systems processors and or other components suitable for use in implementing the systems and functions described herein. For example call server s can include any or all suitable components of enterprise network including for example any or all of the components communications platform and or enterprise server . In some embodiments communications between wireless handheld telephony devices and at least one third telephony device may be routed through a PBX as for example described above in relation to .

It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant arts that PBX s may comprise the service management platform or enterprise communications system described in relation to for simplicity they are referred to herein simply as PBX s .

The at least one third telephony device can include any type of telephony devices suitable for accomplishing the purposes described herein including but not limited to landline or wired telephones such as VoIP protocol or other digital telephone sets analog telephone sets and or wireless telephony devices accessible through for example wireless call servers . One or more of such third telephony devices may also be enterprise telephones accessible through for example a PBX . PBX may or may not be the same as PBX . Wireless call server may or may not be the same as wireless call server .

As explained herein a user of a wireless handheld telephony device may in various circumstances wish to transfer the user s end of a previously established communication session from the user s wireless handheld telephony device to a second telephony device such as one of target local telephony devices . This may be desirable when for example the battery on wireless handheld telephony device is low or the user does not wish to drain the battery further when second telephony device is considered more secure when wireless audio quality or wireless signal is poor or when the user of wireless handheld telephony device wishes to use some of the functionality available on second telephony device .

Target local telephony devices may be enterprise telephony devices configured to communicate through an intermediary comprising for example PBX . In other embodiments target local telephony device may be a public telephony device and may be configured to communicate through an intermediary which may for example comprise a switching environment. Target local telephony devices may be wired devices or they may be connected to intermediary wirelessly such as for example through a WI FI wireless connection. In some embodiments target local telephony devices may be configured to allow voice communications to be made over the Internet such as a device equipped with Skype software.

As mentioned above in some embodiments intermediary may comprise PBX . In other embodiments intermediary may comprise a switching environment. In some embodiments intermediary may form part of communication cloud .

Each of the one or more target local telephony devices include functionality which will allow wireless handheld telephony device to receive one or more wireless signals directly from the one or more target local telephony devices . Such signals can represent data useful for establishing communications between the one or more target local telephony devices and wireless call server which administers or is otherwise associated with wireless handheld telephony device .

In some embodiments such wireless signals may be pushed from the one or more target local telephony devices to any wireless handheld telephony device within communications range of target local telephony device . For example each target local telephony device may include hardware such as a radio or other wireless transmitter capable of broadcasting such wireless signals. For example target local telephony devices may include BlueTooth capabilities. In such embodiments wireless handheld telephony device s may be adapted to receive interpret and further process wireless signals broadcast by the one or more target local telephony devices in accordance with this disclosure. In some embodiments the wireless signals are transmitted by target local telephony device only when the telephony device is in an idle state e.g. not in use for an active call session .

In other embodiments such wireless signals may be pulled from target local telephony devices by wireless handheld telephony device . For example each target local telephony device may include a radio frequency identification RFID transponder configured to respond to an inquiry signal received wirelessly from a suitably configured RFID transmitter associated with a wireless handheld telephony device within range of target local telephony device .

Wireless signals provided by a particular target local telephony device may be received by all wireless handheld telephony devices within range of the local device or they may be directed only to a particular user or group of users. For example a user s desk phone may be configured to only send wireless signals to that user s wireless handheld telephony device or to wireless handheld telephony device of users within the same working group. Similarly in some embodiments a target local telephony device may be configured not to transmit wireless signals to any wireless handheld telephony device .

In the example shown in wireless handheld telephony device comprises input means and output means . Input means can include devices such as keyboard s function button s switch es microphone s and pointing device s such as a trackball thumbwheel etc. for providing single or multi stroke input for building and or issuing command signals for use by processor s as described herein. Input means can be configured to provide various forms of input command signals to processor of the handheld device for local processing and or for output by the processor to one or more of memory s output device s and or transmitter for transmission to external devices such as wireless control server .

Output means can include devices such as display s and speaker s for providing visual and audio outputs respectively. As will be readily understood by those skilled in the relevant arts input and output means or devices can be of any types and include any such means or devices suitable for use in accomplishing the purposes described herein. A wide variety of suitable means and devices are now known and doubtless others will hereafter be developed. Output means can be configured to process output signals provided by processor s in response to internal processing as described herein and or as received from external sources such as wireless control server via antenna and receiver .

In the example shown in wireless handheld telephony device comprises one or more processors input means output means wireless transmitter wireless receiver antenna s and memory s . One or more processors wireless transmitters receivers and antennas can be provided for use in implementing digital and or analog voice data and or command signal and communications processes. For example separate sets of antennas receivers transmitters processors and associated memories can be provided for each of voice and data communications systems and or one or more of such components may be used for multiple types of communications using multiple protocols. As will be readily understood by those skilled in the relevant arts and as described further herein such processors transmitters receivers antennas and memories can be of any types and include means or devices suitable for use in accomplishing the purposes described herein. A wide variety of suitable means and devices are now known and doubtless others will hereafter be developed.

Reference will now be made to which shows a flow diagram representing an example of a method for transferring an end of a communications session from a wireless handheld telephony device to a second telephony device the second telephony device being for example one of target local telephony devices . Method is suitable for use for example in conjunction with systems of and or and wireless handheld telephony devices of in implementing the disclosure herein.

A method can be considered to begin at block where a communication session such as a voice communication session has been established between a wireless handheld telephony device and at least one third telephony device through PSTN PLMN or other communications cloud . Wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session can be controlled by a wireless server .

At wireless handheld telephony device receives pulled or pushed wireless signals from one or more target local telephony devices . Such signals can represent at least in part data useful for establishing communications between one or more target local telephony devices and its controlling wireless call server . Such wireless signals may for example comprise identifying information for each target local telephony device or set of devices such as for example extension numbers telephone name s or other identifier s or office cubicle or other physical location. The wireless signals may also include directional information such as global or relative coordinates ranges or compass directions. In some embodiments the directional information may be useful in providing a directional display displayed on wireless handheld telephony device . Such signals may also include data useable by a wireless call server controlling wireless handheld telephony device s end of the communication session in identifying an intermediary that controls the corresponding target local telephony device s and suitable for use by call server in requesting authentication of one or more selected target local telephony devices .

At a list of one or more target local telephony devices can be displayed by or otherwise provided to the user of wireless handheld telephony device through the use of any suitable output display screen of wireless handheld telephony device or other means. Such list may include any information suitable for use in identifying to the user the name location or distance to target local telephony device s including for example some or all of the identifying information which may be included in the wireless signals or any useful information based thereon. For example such list may include the extension number telephone name or office cubical or other physical location information for some or all of target local telephony devices . In some embodiments the list may also include range and or directional information such as that described above. Directional information may be used to the provide the user with for example directions to a target local telephony device the distance to one or more of target local telephony devices and or a map displaying the location of one or more of target local telephony devices .

For example signals representing data useful for identifying available target local telephony devices can be transmitted to an antenna processed by receiver of wireless handheld telephony device and provided to a processor as shown in . Processor can interpret the received and processed signals to provide suitably configured output signals to a display controlled by the processor in such form that a human user of the device can interpret them as described herein.

A list of target local telephony devices displayed on wireless handheld telephony device may be sorted in a particular order such as for example according to a range or distance from wireless handheld telephony device e.g. from nearest to farthest . In some embodiments the list may be sorted according to one or more preferences established by some criteria set for example by the user of wireless handheld telephony device or by an administrator. For example one or more target local telephony devices can be preferred due to type of device and or functionality offered public semi public private location or status security e.g. the level of encryption or cost. In some instances another wireless handheld telephony device may be preferred for battery or other quality reasons. In some embodiments the list may include only a predetermined number of telephony devices. For example the list may include only the five or other convenient number target local telephony devices which are nearest to wireless handheld telephony device . Data useful in presenting the list on the display can be temporarily or persistently stored in one or more memories of wireless handheld telephony device for later access and processing by processor in response to input requests received from a user of the device.

In some embodiments the list of target local telephony devices provided at may include all local telephony devices within effective communications range of wireless handheld telephony device . That is they may include all devices within range of effective communications with respect to the sharing of identifying information at or effective communications of other desired type or purpose. In other embodiments the list of target local telephony devices may include only those telephony devices which meet some predetermined criteria. For example the list of target local telephony devices may include only those telephony devices which are within a certain desired or required proximity of wireless handheld telephony device such as within x number of meters e.g. five meters of wireless handheld telephony device or on the same floor of a building as wireless handheld telephony device .

In some embodiments certain telephony devices may be excluded from lists of target local telephony devices even though they may match criteria for inclusion e.g. they may be within five meters of wireless handheld telephony device . For example telephony devices which are currently in use may be excluded from the list of target local telephony devices . Other telephony devices may for example be excluded from the list by the owner user of the telephony device or by an administrator based on security cost etc. For example an employee who may be vacating his desk office or cubicle temporarily may be able to indicate that they would prefer not to have any wireless conversations transferred to their office telephone. Similarly an administrator could decide that only those telephones which are normally unused such as those located in boardrooms or vacant offices can be included in the list of target local telephony devices .

At the user of wireless handheld telephony device can select second telephony device to which the user s end of the communications session will be transferred for example working from a list of target local telephony devices provided at . Such selection may for example be made using any suitable input device such as for example a keyboard touch screen mouse trackball or the like using any suitable input functionality including for example special key commands interaction with an interactive displayed list etc. to provide suitably configured input command signals to the responsible processor s of the handheld device. The identity of selected target local telephony device and any other useful information derived from the wireless signals at or otherwise can be sent to wireless call server which will coordinate the transfer with intermediary . This process will be discussed in greater detail in relation to .

In some embodiments second telephony device may be automatically selected by wireless handheld telephony device based on one or more pre established rules established by the user of the device and or any administrator s thereof. For example wireless handheld telephony device may always select the nearest target local telephony device or the nearest such device meeting one or more predetermined criteria.

At a human interpretable signal may be emitted by second telephony device once the end of the communications session previously assigned to wireless handheld telephony device has been successfully transferred or when the transfer is ready to be completed. Such a signal may for example include a visual signal such as illumination of a light located on the target device and or an audio signal such as a ring tone buzz pre selected melody or other signal which may for example have been previously selected or designated by the user of wireless handheld telephony device or by an administrator of wireless handheld telephony device and or target local telephony device . An audio signal produced by the target device may be the same audio signal e.g. ring tone used in other circumstances such as when wireless handheld telephony device or target local telephony device rings or it may be unique to this process. The signal may indicate to the user that they may now continue their conversation on second telephony device . The signal may also help the user locate the device they had selected.

At the user of wireless handheld telephony device may unhook or otherwise pick up the target device by for example lifting the receiver or pushing a button on the target device to activate a speaker function. The user may at that time if not already otherwise accomplished cause transfer of the user s end of the communication session to target local telephony device to be completed by for example activating an input command from wireless handheld telephony device . For example wireless handheld telephony device may upon establishment of a communications session between selected target local telephony device and the at least one third telephony device display a confirmation message on an output display screen of wireless handheld telephony device and require confirmatory input from the user in order to complete transfer of the user s end of the communication session. It may be required or desirable that the at least one third telephony device be placed on hold or otherwise in a state of suspended communications pending the transfer.

Upon completion of the transfer the user may continue the ongoing conversation or other communication with at least one third telephony device using second telephony device . The portion of the communication session extending to wireless handheld telephony device may be automatically terminated by for example intermediary . In other embodiments the user may hang up or otherwise manually terminate any continuing call session processes in progress at wireless handheld telephony device .

Transfer of the user s end of the communication session may also include transfer of one or more telephony functions relating to the communication session.

Telephony functions that may be transferred in this manner may include telephony functions applicable to an on going communication session such as for example call forwarding call holding call transfer call muting call logs caller ID etc. User preferences relevant to an ongoing call including for example preprogrammed soft button settings or volume level may also be transferred. Service profiles associated with one or more users may be stored in the wireless call server and may be associated with the wireless handheld telephony device . Transfer of telephony functions from the wireless handheld telephony device to the second telephony device may also transfer the profile association to the second telephony device such that settings stored in the service profile are applied to the second telephony device . In some examples one or more telephony functions that may be transferred to the second telephony device may be limited or unable to be transferred due to limitations in the second telephony device .

Although various telephony functions have been described as being transferred to form the wireless handheld telephony device to the second telephony device it should be understood that such transferal may also be a duplication of one or more telephony functions such that such functions may be available both on the wireless handheld telephony device and on the second telephony device rather than a strict transferal of functions.

While the steps of method are shown as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts that many of the process steps and portions thereof are interchangeable and may occur in different orders that that shown without materially affecting the end results of the method . It will further be appreciated by such persons that not all of such steps are required in order to accomplish the purposes disclosed herein and that further steps may be optionally implemented.

Reference is now made to which shows an example of command signal interchange operations of a system in transferring a wireless end of a communication session between a wireless handheld telephony device and at least one third telephony device to a second telephony device . In voice data streams or connections are depicted using dashed lines and signals comprising command signal data are depicted using solid lines.

At a communication session has previously been established between wireless handheld telephony device and at least one third telephony device . In the example shown the end of the communications session assigned to wireless handheld telephony device is managed by a wireless call server . The communications session may be established and managed as for example disclosed herein using SIP or other suitable protocols.

At wireless handheld telephony device for example upon coming within wireless communication range of one or more target local telephony devices receives directly from each of such one or more target local telephony devices signals representing data useful for establishing communications between the one or more target local telephony devices and wireless call server . That is the signals are sent direct from target local telephony device s to wireless handheld telephony device without necessity for the signals to be routed through for example PBX . As explained herein the wireless signals may comprise identifying information and or directional information for each target local telephony device . Such information may be formatted in accordance with or compatible with any suitable protocol such as those described herein or may be formatted according to individual system preferences. Such signals may for example be received by one or more antenna s of wireless handheld telephony device and processed by receiver for further processing by one or more processor s of the device.

As explained herein data provided by one or more target local telephony devices useful by wireless handheld telephony devices and or their controlling call servers for identifying such devices can be provided on a push basis by target local telephony device s or they can be pulled by a wireless handheld telephony device either continuously periodically or in response to a query signal transmitted by wireless handheld telephony device at the command of its user. For example a user of a wireless handheld telephony device walking into an office area containing one or more target local telephony devices and desiring to transfer his her end of an ongoing telephone call can activate a key based command to cause the wireless device to push out a polling signal using for example an RFID capable transmitter . The polling signal might be received and answered by one or more target local telephony devices using suitably configured RFID transponders.

In response to receipt and suitable display by wireless handheld telephony device of signals from one or more target local telephony devices the user of wireless handheld telephony device can be provided an interactive opportunity to request transfer of the user s end of the ongoing call session to a selected one of target local telephony devices . For example as described herein when a user of wireless handheld telephony device determines that he she would like to transfer the ongoing communications session to a selected one of target local telephony devices the user can enter input data indicating that the user would like to transfer the call to selected target local telephony device using any one or more of input devices . For example as described herein in connection with block step of a list of one or more eligible target local telephony devices can be displayed on an output screen of the user s wireless handheld telephony device and a desired target phone may be selected by the user using interactive input means.

Upon input by the user of key based or other command s indicating the user s selection of the desired target local telephony device at a processor of wireless handheld telephony device can cause a signal or signals representing a request to transfer the user s end of the call to such target local telephony device to be sent to the responsible wireless call server . For example at the responsible wireless call server can be provided by wireless handheld telephony device with signals representing a request for authentication of at least selected target local telephony device . Optionally authentication of multiple target local telephony devices can be requested prior to selection by a user of wireless handheld telephony device .

At wireless call server responsible for controlling wireless handheld telephony device s end of the communications session can using data provided by the wireless device which might include data provided originally by the selected target local telephony devices forward the request for authentication of the selected target local telephony devices to a PBX or other intermediary controlling or otherwise responsible for administering the selected target local telephony devices . Such data can for example be formatted in accordance with or compatible with any suitable protocols as described herein. Such server can in various embodiments be incorporated in target local telephony devices as a software and or hardware component thereof. 

At intermediary responsible for controlling selected target local telephony device s can before after or while authorizing and or authenticating the availability and suitability of selected target local telephony device s send to the querying wireless call server signals representing a request for authentication of wireless handheld telephony device from which the request originated. This may be done for example in order to confirm that wireless handheld telephony device is a valid end user e.g. that the device is not using a false identity or spoofing .

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts authentication of device s by their responsible servers can be required for a wide variety of purposes including security accounting billing or control of signal traffic for bandwidth capacity or other reasons.

At the responsible wireless server can provide to the requesting intermediary signals useful in establishing the authentication requested at .

At in response to signals provided at or independently intermediary can provide to the requesting wireless call server signals useful by the wireless server in establishing the authentication requested at .

If either authentication fails the requesting server and or device can be notified and a new selection or other appropriate action may be requested.

At wireless call server can provide to the requesting wireless handheld telephony device signals representing a request for confirmation that a user of the device wishes to transfer the end of the call session assigned to wireless handheld telephony device to a selected target local telephony device . For example wireless call server can provide to wireless handheld telephony device signals adapted to cause a processor of the device to display on an output display screen of the device a request which may be interactive for the user of the device to confirm his her desire to complete the transfer.

In embodiments in which the request for confirmation presented to the user of wireless handheld telephony device at is implemented at the user can input command signals adapted to confirm or deny that the user wishes to complete transfer of the user s end of the call session to selected target local telephony device . In the event the user s intent to transfer the call is confirmed further processing can be undertaken by wireless call server and other system components to transfer the call session as herein described. In the event the user declines to confirm a desire to complete transfer of the call processing can be halted and the pre existing call session between wireless handheld telephony device and third telephony device can be continued.

For example at a user of wireless handheld telephony device can enter suitably adapted keystrokes to cause processor of wireless handheld telephony device to provide to wireless call server signals adapted for causing server to complete transfer of the call session.

In many embodiments as will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts it will be desirable in transferring wireless handheld telephony device s end of a call to a selected local telephony device to place third telephony device in a hold state so that third telephony device s end of the existing call session will not be dropped. Third telephony device can be placed in such a hold state at any necessary or convenient point in the transfer process. As will be understood by those skilled in the relevant arts such a necessary or convenient point may depend upon the protocol s and system architecture s used in creating and controlling the relevant call sessions. Thus if third telephony device has not already been placed in a hold state at wireless call server can send to third telephony device or its corresponding server a signal requesting that third telephony device s end of the call session be placed in a hold state.

At wireless call server having received a request for transfer of wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session to selected target local telephony device and optionally a confirmation of that request can forward to intermediary controlling selected target local telephony device request for target local telephony device to join the call session previously established between wireless handheld telephony device and third telephony device or otherwise accept transfer of wireless handheld telephony device s end of that call session.

As noted herein it is desirable in some embodiments that a selected or selectable i.e. target local telephony device be provided with means such as an audio and or visual signal for identifying to a user of wireless handheld telephony device the selected or selectable local telephony device and optionally for indicating to such user that the selected or selectable i.e. target local telephony device is ready to assume wireless handheld telephony device s end of the communications session. For example at in response to the signal provided by local call server at intermediary can send to selected target local telephony device signal adapted to cause selected target local telephony device to provide for the user of wireless handheld telephony device ringtone or other audio and or visual signal so that the user will pick up the receiver of selected target local telephony device activate a speakerphone control or otherwise activate the local telephony device in order to complete the transfer of wireless handheld telephony device s end of the communication session.

At and optionally in response to the sending of the ringtone or other signal command by intermediary at the user of wireless handheld telephony device or other user can pick up the receiver of selected target local telephony device activate a speakerphone control or otherwise initiate pick up of wireless handheld telephony device s end of the communications session and cause target local telephony device to provide to intermediary a signal indicating that selected target local telephony device is ready to accept transfer of the communications session.

As shown at upon activation of target local telephony device at upon confirmation at of the user s desire to transfer the call or at other suitable point intermediary can provide to wireless call server signals confirming that selected target local telephony device has initiated the call pick up process and that wireless server may terminate wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session.

As shown at wireless server upon receipt of confirmation that selected target local telephony device and or intermediary have initiated the process of picking up wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session can terminate wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session. Suitable confirmation may be provided by the wireless server to the wireless device.

As shown at intermediary upon confirmation or instruction that selected local device is ready to pick up wireless handheld telephony device s end of the call session can provide to third telephony device and or a call server controlling third telephony device signals configured for use by third telephony device and or its server in causing outgoing communications from third telephony device to be routed to selected target local telephony device and incoming communications from target local telephony device to be routed to third telephony device

As shown at and necessary or desirable signals useful for causing selected target local telephony device to communicate with third telephony device can be sent to selected target local telephony device so that at the transferred call session can continue between selected local device and third telephony device .

Further signals useful for processing communications between target local telephony device and third telephony device can be provided and processed according to any desired telephony protocol.

Reference will now be made to B and C which show in block diagram form three example systems A B and C for transferring communication from a wireless handheld telephony device to a second telephony device . In each of these diagrams data connections are represented by solid lines where as voice connections are represented by dashed lines. Systems A B and C of B and C respectively may represent specific examples of system of .

Referring first to an example system for transferring a communication is shown involving a corporate or enterprise environment. In this example intermediary comprises enterprise server corporate mobile voice server MVS and PBX . Wireless handheld telephony device may be engaged in an ongoing conversation with at least one third telephony device through PBX . In this embodiment second telephony device may be another corporate telephony device which is configured to communicate through PBX .

Wireless handheld telephony device may receive wireless signals from second telephony device as described above. Wireless handheld telephony device may send identifying information received through the wireless signals to the enterprise serve and corporate MVS . Using this information corporate MVS may instruct PBX to transfer the communication session from wireless handheld telephony device to second telephony device such that the communication session continues between second telephony device and at least one third telephony device through PBX .

Referring next to an example system for transferring a communication is shown involving a consumer environment. In this embodiment intermediary comprises internet server consumer MVS and switching environment . Wireless handheld telephony device may be engaged in an ongoing conversation with at least one third telephony device through switching environment . In this embodiment second telephony device may be a public telephony device which is capable of communicating through switching environment .

Wireless handheld telephony device may receive wireless signals from second telephony device as described above. Wireless handheld telephony device may send identifying information received through the wireless signals through a data connection to internet server which is connected to consumer MVS . Switching environment may then be directed to transfer the ongoing communication from wireless handheld telephony device to second telephony device such that the communication session continues between second telephony device and at least one third telephony device through switching environment . In some embodiments where second telephony device is configured for voice communications over the internet such as a Skype enabled device the communication session may be transferred via switching environment over the internet using IP addressing. In other embodiments the communication session may be transferred via switching environment over for example a PSTN such as PSTN of .

Finally referring to an example system for transferring a communication is shown involving a consumer environment where a data connection is not available. In this embodiment intermediary comprises a service provider switching environment . Wireless handheld telephony device may be engaged in an ongoing conversation with at least one third telephony device through service provider switching environment . In this embodiment second telephony device may be a public telephony device which is capable of communicating through service provider switching environment .

Wireless handheld telephony device may receive wireless signals from a second telephony device as described above. Once the identity of second telephony device to which communication will be transferred has been established wireless handheld telephony device may provide this information to the service provider switching environment . This may be done using for example in band or sideband DTMF data signaling via a carrier APN or simple SMS back to the SPSE or using any other available protocol. Service provider switching environment may transfer the ongoing communication from wireless handheld telephony device to second telephony device such that the communication session continues between second telephony device and at least one third telephony device through service provider switching environment .

While the this disclosure and its examples have been described and illustrated in connection with specific presently preferred embodiments many variations and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The disclosure is therefore not to be limited to the exact components or details of methodology or construction set forth above. Except to the extent necessary or inherent in the processes themselves no particular order to steps or stages of methods or processes described in this disclosure including the Figures is intended or implied. In many cases the order of process steps may be varied without changing the purpose effect or import of the methods described. The scope of the claims is to be defined solely by the appended claims giving due consideration to the doctrine of equivalents and related doctrines.

